Autobiography of Sir John Rennie, F.R.S., past president of the Institution
of civil engineers. Comprising the history of his professional life,
together with reminiscences dating from the commencement of
the century to the present time.

Rennie, John, Sir, 1794-1874.
London, E. & F. N. Spon, 1875.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nyp.33433082362876

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
              AUTOBIOGRAPHY

                                                         OF

SIR JOHN RENNIE, F.R.S.
L
               AUTOBIOGRAPHY

                                                                       OF

SIR JOHN RENNIE, F.R.S.,

                    PaST PRESIDENT OP THE INSTnUTION OP OIVIl ENGINEERS.

                                                               COMPRISING

         THE HISTORY OF HIS PROFESSIONAL LIFE,

                                                   TOGETHER WITH
REMINISCENCES DATING FROM THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CENTURY

                                      TO THE PRESENT TIME.

                   . i ' ( . Li

                        LONDON :    CROSS.
E. & F. N. SPON, 48, CHARING

                         NEW YORK:
               446, BROOME STREET.

1875.
...- * -
                     PREFACE.

The following Autobiography was written by Sir John
-Ronnie in 1867, shortly after he had retired from the
active duties of his profession. As will be perceived
in the sequel, it was composed wholly from memory.
Sir John was subsequently unable to revise it as he
would have desired, and it has since been found impos
sible to do so. Nevertheless it is believed that but few
substantial errors will be found ; while the kindliness
with which the autobiographer invariably speaks of
every person with whom he came in contact, is a gua
rantee that there can be nothing to offend the most
 sensitive person, or which might tend to injure the

just claims and reputations of others. It is now pre

sented to the public in its original state, having under
 gone merely some necessary correction, in the hope that
the memoirs of the man who was perhaps unrivalled
in his branch of the profession -- and which comprise
valuable hints as to the neglected art of hydraulics, as
 well as advice to engineers commencing their career,
vi PREFACE.

the result of the experience of a lifetime of no ordinary

duration--together with the reminiscences of one who

had seen much both of men and things,

                      " Qui mores hominum multorum vidit et urbes,"

may not be unacceptable either to the profession or the
world at large.

    London, September, 1875.
        CONTENTS.

                        CHAPTER I.
My rirth and early education -- I enter my Father's office

    -- Commencement of Waterloo and Southwark Bridges --
    Anecdotes of Mr. Ferguson, of Pitfour -- The Stockton and
    Darlington Railway, and Surveys retween Port Patrick and
    donaghader -- Account of the mode of erecting the arches
    of Southwark Bridge -- Journey to the Continent and Field
    of Waterloo -- Account of the ruilding of Waterloo Bridge

   -- It is opened in State ry the Prince Regent, 1817.

                                                                                                        Page 1

        CHAPTER II.

Travels in Switzerland, Italy, Greece, Asia Minor, Constan
    tinople, and Egypt -- Return to England -- Death of Mr.

Rennie                     36

        CHAPTER III.

Eau Brink Cut -- Ramsgate Harrour -- Sheerness Dockyard --
Plymouth Breakwater -- Anecdote of the late Mr. J. Fox
-- London Bridge and Approaches -- Sir F. Trench's Plan
for Quaying the Thames -- Nene Outfall -- Cross Keys
Bridge -- Norfolk Estuary -- Improvement of the Witham
-- Anoholme Drainage
                           167

        CHAPTER IV.

Sketch of the Rise and     Progress of the Railway System --
     The Manchester and    Liverpool, London and Birmingham,
    and other early Llnes
                                                                                        228
viii CONTENTS.

                        CHAPTER V.        .. .. Page 252

Travels in the North of Europe and Spain

                       CHAPTER VI.

Ship Canal from Portsmouth to London -- Machinery and Engine
    Making -- Screw Steam Ships -- Hartlepool aottCoquet Har
    rours -- Railways round London -- Railway Mania -- South
     eastern Railway -- London, Chatham, and Dover Railway.

                                                                                                                 284

                     CHAPTER VII.

Swedish Railways -- Surveys in Holland and Portugal .. 304

                   CHAPTER VIII.                   343

Surveys in Portugal and Tunis

       CHAPTER IX.

Surveys at Odessa and Vienna -- Harrour at Ponta Delgada --
Ramsgate -- Dagknham
                      .. ".                        377"

       CHAPTER X.

Retrospect -- London Bridge -- Sheerness Dockyard -- Plymouth
Breakwater and Victualling Yard -- Steam Vessels for the
Navy -- Harrours -- Railways -- Broad and Narrow Gauge
-- Atmospheric Railway -- Water Supply and Sewage
                                                   407

                       CHAPTER XI.

The Formation of Natural Breakwaters -- The Society of
    Civil Engineers -- The Education of a Civil Engineer --
    Some Hints on Practice -- Estimating -- Conclusion . . 427

Index                                              459
             AUTOBIOGRAPHY

   SIR JOHN RENNIE.

                         CHAPTER I.

   My rirth and early    education --  I enter my Father's office
        -- Commencement  of Waterloo
                                        and Southwark Bridges --
   --oodADoffnaneIrWStacliodgnauohigstttaehtedorowselnpoaeeoornk--Rfe--daMBialAiwrcrni.ccdaocgySFoueeutnarnat--gtntuedosJofoorSfnuyut,rthrnhvetoeehefeyymrsPuotiPdiotlrerdfeionittnwuhocgeefree--oneCBrfoeeTngPcWhtetoieinnanretttg,neStrtP1oltao8hcato1kern7tido.cBankFrricdiheaagennleddsd

   I was born at 27, Stamford Street, Blackfriars, London,

   Ion the 30th of August, 1794. Having been taught

   my letters at home, was sent to the care of Dr. Green

   law, who kept a boys' school at Isleworth. It was a

   large house, formerly belonging to the Bishop of
   London. To the house were attached excellent gardens
   and playground. The situation, moreover, was open
   and healthy, and the total number of boys was about
   fifty, ranging from eight to sixteen years of age. They
   were well fed and taken care of by the Doctor's excellent

   wife, and his sister-in-law, Miss Hodgkins. The Doctor's

   eldest daughter, Miss Greenlaw, taught the youngest

   boys their letters ; whilst the Doctor and his assist
   ants devoted themselves to the education of the others,
   which education consisted chiefly of classics, writing,
   arithmetic, French, and occasionally geography and the

   Ielements of astronomy. During the time that was

   there the most remarkable scholar was the celebrated

   /B

i
2 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Ipoet, Percy Bysshe Shelley, who was then about twelve        I

or thirteen (as far as can remember), and even at that
early age exhibited considerable poetical talent, accom

panied by a violent and extremely excitable temper,
which manifested itself in all kinds of eccentricities.

His figure was of the middle size, although slight, but
well made. His head was well proportioned, and covered
with a profusion of brown locks ; his features regular,
but rather small ; his eyes hazel, restless, and brilliant ;

his complexion was fair and transparent ; and his coun

tenance rather effeminate, but exceedingly animated.

The least circumstance that thwarted him produced the

most violent paroxysms of rage ; and when irritated by
other boys, which they, knowing his infirmity, fre
quently did by way of teasing him, he would take
up anything, or even any little boy near him, to
throw at his tormentors. His imagination was always
roving upon something romantic and extraordinary,

such as spirits, fairies, fighting, volcanoes, &c., and he
not unfrequently astonished his schoolfellows by blow
ing up the boundary palings of the playground with
gunpowder, also the lid of his desk in the middle of
schooltime, to the great surprise of Dr. Greenlaw him

self and the whole school. In fact, at times he was

considered to be almost upon the borders of insanity ;
yet with all this, when treated with kindness, he was

 very amiable, noble, high-spirited, and generous;
 he used to write verse, English and Latin, with con

 siderable facility, and attained a high position in the

 school before he left for Eton, where, I understand, he
 was equally, if not more, extraordinary and eccentric.

     Cotemporary with Shelley there was another peculiar

 character, named Tredcroft, from the same county, viz.

 ISussex ; he also had considerable poetical talent, bu t

 unfortunately lost his health, and ultimately, under

 stand, died completely imbecile at an early age.
 remained at this school until the year 1807, by whi
              EARLY SCHOOL-DAYS.      3

time I had acquired a tolerable knowledge of the Greek

Iand Latin classics, and arithmetic as far as vulgar
fractions and decimals.  was then sent to the cele

brated Dr. Burney's, at Greenwich, where there were

about 100 boys, varying from ten to eighteen.

   Dr. Charles Burney was considered one of the best
Greek and Latin scholars of the day, and was the inti
mate friend of Porson and numerous other literary cele
brities. His school was therefore very highly esteemed

for classics, but for little or nothing else ; for although a
certain quantity of arithmetic and the elements of algebra

and geometry were taught, yet these were quite secondary

to the classics.

  I therefore made little further progress in anything
Ibut classics, in which became a tolerable proficient,

and had Homer,        Tahtumcyydidfiensg,ersE' uernipdisd,ews,hilsStopIhoccoleusld,

Virgil, Horace, &c.,

scarcely demonstrate the Pons asinorum of Euclid ; in

fact, in those days a knowledge of Greek and Latin was

considered as including everything else, and anything
Ilike a science or physics was considered of secondary
consequence.  made the acquaintance of two men,

who afterwards much distinguished themselves by their

scientific acquirements, namely, the late Herbert Mayo,

the well-known surgeon and physiologist ; also the late

Sir George Everest, the scientific Director of the Tri
angular Survey of India; and Dr. Milman, late Dean of

St. Paul's. Dr. Burney's school was by no means so
well managed as that of Dr. Greenlaw in everything
which regarded the comfort of the boys, neither were

Ithey so well fed or looked after, and it was a great

relief to me when left the school in 1809.

  IIt then became a question with my father whether

should go to Oxford or Cambridge, or whether I should

finish my education at home, under the superintendence
of proper masters. About this period, and ever since the

year 1802, there was nothing but war heard or talked

                                  b2
4 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

of all over the world. The whole country was as it

were turned into a camp ; every man capable of bearing

Iarms became a volunteer, and at school even we were

regularly drilled to the use of arms ; and was so
                                                                   of Nelson
tehxeciteedarlybycatrheeerexotfraWoredlilninargytonvictthoaritesI               and
                                                                    determined    to

enter the army, but to this my father was decidedly

Iopposed, as he wished to bring me up to his own
profession.  was therefore reluctantly obliged to give

up all idea of the military profession and follow that

of a civil engineer ; and my father wisely determined

Ithat should go through all the gradations, both prac
Itical and theoretical, which could not be done if went

to the University, as the practical part, which he con

sidered most important, must be abandoned ; for, he

said, after a young man has been three or four years at
the University of Oxford or Cambridge, he cannot,

without much difficulty, turn himself to the practical

part of civil engineering. All idea, therefore, of my

going to Cambridge or Oxford was given up. My
father at that period had one department of his business

              ;

                                      is,
exclusively devoted to practical mechanics, that to

the making of machinery of all kinds this department,

although     formed by no means the principal part
;
of his profession, nevertheless enabled him to make
         it
experiments which were of great value in the other
           I
departments of his business, and was by no means

unprofitable, as the importance of machinery and

mechanical contrivances was then to certain extent
              I

                   I
                           a
                                          a
appreciated, and was daily becoming more so. My

father always said that theoretical and practical me

chanics were the true foundations of all civil engineer

ing and he therefore insisted that as had to certain

extent learned the theoretical, so must now learn the

practical part. was therefore sent into the mechanical

department, and commenced work planing and sawing

boards, making patterns, and other similar works.
COMMENCEMENT OF PROFESSIONAL LIFE.                       5

After this I was put      to turning  both wood and metal ;
and although I did        not attain  complete practical effi

ciency in these departments, which would have required

Iseveral years, nevertheless learned sufficient to enable

me to become a tolerable judge of workmanship.

  I Iwas then put into the drawing office, where

learned to copy geometrical plans, by which, in a short

Itime, in combination with what had acquired in the
Iworkshop, gained a general knowledge of design and

construction .

My time was employed in this manner about eight

hours daily, but my evenings were devoted to the ac

quisition of geometry, algebra, and trigonometry, plane

and spherica J; also astronomy under the late Astronomer

Royal, Mr. Pond, and his father-in-law, Dr. Bradley,
and in learning French, Italian, and German. Having

acquired to a certain extent a proficiency in the mathe

matical sciences, I was placed under the direction of the

late Mr. Francis Giles, a land surveyor of considerable

experience and ability, who was generally employed by
my father to make his various hydraulic surveys for
canals and harbours under his immediate direction,

which Mr. Giles executed with his usual fidelity and

ability. IUnder Mr. Giles learned the use of the chain,

level, and theodolite, and was enabled to apply my theo

retical knowledge in trigonometry, plane and spherical,

to practice. About this period, viz. the year 1813,
having obtained a tolerable knowledge of the rudiments
of my profession, both theoretical and practical, my father
determined to place upon my shoulders a certain degree
of responsibility, and put me under the direction of that
late worthy and excellent man, Mr. James Hollings-
worth, whom my father had appointed to be resident
                          Waterloo Bridge, which was then build
einngg.ineIerfeoltf  the  responsibility of this office a good deal,
                     the
and entered upon it with every determination and

desire to meet my father's approbation ; and during the
6 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

inclement winter of 1813-14, when the frost lasted

about two months, and the Thames above London

IBridge was frozen over for several weeks, was obliged

to attend the piling of the foundations of the first and
second piers on the Surrey side of the river night and
day for three days each week, which severely tried my
constitution.

   At this period Vauxhall Bridge was also in course of

Iconstruction, and was directed by my father to attend

to this also, under Mr. Jones, the resident engineer ; but
they had scarcely finished the Middlesex abutment up
to the springing of the first arch, and were preparing
the caisson for founding the first pier, when the Com
pany found that they had not sufficient funds to carry

into effect Mr. Rennie's design, which was very beau
tiful. The bridge was to be made entirely of the fine
blue sandstone from Dundee, and was to consist of seven
arches, segments of circles, the centre arch being 110
feet span, with a rise or versed sine of 19 feet, and
depth of keystone 4 feet 6 inches ; piers 18 feet 6 inches
 thick at the springing of the arch, the two arches next

 the centre being 105 feet span each, with a rise or versed
 sine of 17 feet, keystone 4 feet 5 inches, and springing
 stones 9 feet long, and the two piers 17 feet 6 inches
 thick each. The two next arches were 100 feet span, with
 a rise or versed sine of 15 feet, keystones 4 feet 4 inches,
 and springers 9 feet, and piers 1 7 feet thick each ; the
 two sub or shore arches 90 feet span each, with a rise or
 versed sine of 13 feet, keystones 4 feet, and springers
 8 feet, abutments 21 feet thick at the springing, having
 a total width of waterway of 700 feet. The arches were
 surmounted by a Boman Doric cornice and plain block
 and plinth parapet, and the projecting points of the piers
 were surmounted by solid square pilasters, with a niche
 in the centre. The roadway was 34 feet wide between
 the parapets, and was formed by a very flat segment of
 a circle rising 1 in 53. The piers were intended to be
      VAUXHALL, SOUTHWARK, AND WATERLOO BRIDGES. 7

founded by caissons resting upon a platform supported
by bearing and surrounded by sheeting piles. This was
upon the whole a very elegant, light, and chaste design.
Finding that the Company had not sufficient funds to
carry into effect the stone design, Mr. Rennie proposed
another wholly of iron, consisting of eleven arches, with
a total waterway of 732 feet, supported upon cast-iron
columns filled with masonry and resting upon a platform
supported upon piles and surrounded by sheeting piles.
The centre arch was to be 86 feet span and 8 feet rise,

and the others diminishing regularly to each end so
as to enable the roadway to be formed into a graceful
curve rising 1 foot in 60. This also was an extremely
light, elegant, and economical design. The total cost
of this elegant design was estimated at 100,000/., and
would have been executed first, but at that time even

this amount was not forthcoming. The works then

stopped, and some time elapsed before the Company
was resumed, and ultimately constructed the present

 bridge.

    In the year 1814-15 my father was appointed engi
 neer-in-chief of the Southwark Bridge Company, and as

 this was proposed to be constructed in the narrowest
 part of the river between Blackfriars and the Old
 London Bridge, considerable opposition was made to the
 Act of Parliament for its construction by the Corpora
 tion of London and the Conservators of the river, on
 account of the obstruction which they said the bridge
 would offer to the navigation ; this however was finally
 overcome, but it was decided by Parliament that the
 bridge should be constructed with as large arches as
 possible. Accordingly Mr. Rennie submitted a design
 consisting of three cast-iron arches, the centre being 240
 feet span, with a versed sine of 24 feet, and two side
 arches of 210 feet each, with a versed sine or rise of
 18 feet 10 inches each, with piers of 24 feet wide each
 at the springing, thus giving a clear lineal waterway of
8 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

660 feet, which was a great deal more than that of the

Old London Bridge at that time existing. This design

was approved of and ordered to be carried into effect.
                        experience of the
By this time, with the  my other studies,  Waterloo and
Vauxhall bridges and
                                           I had gained

considerable knowledge in bridge building, and my

father was anxious to give me as much encouragement

as possible ; although, therefore, he appointed a worthy
and practical man, Mr. Meston, as nominally the resident
engineer, yet he confided to me the arduous task of

Imaking out the working drawings under his own direc
tion, and of carrying them into effect.    therefore felt

highly gratified with this great mark of confidence, and

devoted my whole energies to the work night and day.

The ironwork was carried into effect by Messrs. Walker,

of Rotherham, under the able management of their ex
perienced and able superintendent, Mr. Yeats, and the

masonry and piling under the well-known contractors,

Messrs. Jolliffe and Banks; and Mr. Meston, the resi

dent engineer, faithfully discharged his duties,

v' As these arches were the largest of the kind ever

constructed, considerable doubts as to their stability oc

curred to many, and the subject was discussed amongst

scientific men with considerable energy ; and amongst

others, the celebrated Dr. Young undertook to investi
gate Mr. Rennie's calculations, and came to the conclu

sion that the bridge was well designed, and would be

a perfectly safe and stable structure, and equal to the
support of any weight or amount of traffic which could

be brought over it. But in order to fulfil these condi
tions, it was absolutely necessary that every detail of

jmaterials and workmanship should be worked out with

the greatest skill and accuracy,
   As the arches were of such great span with so small

rise, the pressure upon the piers and abutments was

chiefly lateral ; it therefore became necessary to con
struct them in such a manner that they should offer the
SOUTHWAUK BRIDGE.  0

most effectual resistance to this pressure. In conse

quence, the foundations of the abutments were made on

an incline, and the masonry from thence upwards to
the springing of the arches was made to consist of a
series of courses radiating upwards until they reached
the angle of the springing courses ; so that, in point
of fact, the abutments formed, as it were, a continuation
of the side arches to their base ; and in order to con

nect the courses of masonry more solidly together, the
courses were connected with each other from the top to
the bottom by several series of vertical bond stones,

thus forming one solid immovable mass. These abut
ments were supported on a platform composed of piles,

double sleepers, and planking, the piles being 20 feet
long, 12 inches in diameter in the middle, and driven

solidly into the ground at right angles to the inclination
of the foundation. As the pressure upon the piers was
nearly equal on both sides, it was necessary that the
foundations should be laid level. These also rest upon
a wooden platform of double sills and planking, lying

upon piles of the same dimensions as those of the abut

ments, driven vertically into the ground below, and the
courses of masonry, which were laid horizontally, were
connected together in the vertical direction by a series
of bond stones in a similar manner to those of the abut

ments. The abutments and piers were founded many
feet below low-water mark of spring tides, so as to
be below the reach of any possible scour of the river.
Those parts of the piers from immediately below the
springing of the arches to a point above the top of
the main solid ribs of the arches were composed of

large blocks of stone set nearly vertically, breaking
bond laterally and vertically with each other, and in
the centre of this part of the piers there was a set
of keystones 12 feet long and 2 feet thick, tapering
on each side, forming so many stone wedges. These
were very finely worked on all sides. These wedge
10 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

stones broke bond laterally with the blocks in front of

them, and were firmly driven into their places for a

depth of 2 feet by means of heavy wooden rams. The
masonry of the pilasters and salient angles of the piers
is of the same character as those of the interior of the

pier before described, and worked into them in the same

manner, so as to form one solid bond from one point of

the pier to the other. The whole of the exterior of this
part of the piers, as well as of the abutments, is cased

with granite from Scotland or Cornwall ; and it was

necessary that the blocks forming this casing should be

of the largest kind, which hitherto was quite unusual,

particularly for the facing of the abutments from

whence the arches were to spring, which required

blocks from 15 to 20 tons. These were of such unusual

magnitude, and nothing of the kind had hitherto been

used in London, or even elsewhere in England, that

the contractors made considerable objection to obtaining

Ithem, and even went so far as to say that it could not
be done.     was perfectly convinced that it could be

done, and that it was merely a question of a little

extra expense, and strongly recommended my father to

insist upon  it,
                     it

                                    ;
             as was absolutely necessary for the

security of the bridge and he did so, and directed me

to proceed to Aberdeen for the purpose of obtaining

them.     accordingly started for Aberdeen; and when
a
there, carefully examined all the quarries in the neigh
   I
bourhood, whichaI  found had only been opened up

on small scale, and were merely adapted for getting
paving stones, the commerce of which with London

was then upon considerable scale but the idea of;
obtaining blocks of the size required for the South-

wark Bridge was considered to be entirely out of the

question or, even they could be obtained, the price
       ;

                    if

would be such that the contractors would not con

sent to pay. In fact, so many difficulties and objec

tions were made that found nothing could be done
                        I
QUARRIES AT PETERHEAD.  11

Iin that quarter.   therefore determined to proceed

to Peterhead, 30 miles farther northward, where the

I Ired granite abounds in large masses near the coast, and

where was told that should probably succeed ; but
still, they said, even there it would be very difficult

to get them. Upon arriving at Peterhead I immedi

ately set to work exploring the adjacent country for
several miles round, and soon found that blocks of the

Isize required could readily be obtained, and even larger
ones if necessary.  accordingly selected, by way of
experiment, a mass of solid rock about four miles to the
south of Peterhead, lying within a quarter of a mile of

the sea coast, and about 200 feet above the main turn

pike road to Peterhead, which ran along the sea shore.
This block, weighing about 25 tons, was accordingly

marked out, and was soon detached from the main mass

of rock by means of wedges, and was 10 feet long and

5 feet square. The workmen who executed this task
were rewarded with ample wages and a good supply of
whisky, and were extremely proud of their achievement.
Then came the important question, how they were to
convey it to Peterhead. To get it to the turnpike road
was soon accomplished by means of a wooden inclined

tramway formed of stout planks moved upon wooden

rollers. Good wages and whisky settled this, and the
workmen considered it a further great triumph ; but

still the greater difficulty remained, how to get this vast

Iblock (as it was then considered) four miles to Peterhead.
   then went back to Peterhead, and after numerous

inquiries, and as many failures and objections on all

sides, at last found two large single bogies, each con
sisting of a pair of strong wheels 8 feet in diameter,

connected by a strong axle shaft and a double

Ipair of shafts in front. These two pairs of wheels

joined together at the axle shafts by two strong
beams, cased with wrought iron, and strengthened the

wheels and axles in other respects as far as necessary.
12 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

I then took this carriage to the block of red granite

already mentioned lying in the road, and slung the
stone, by means of strong chains, to the two longitu
dinal bearers of the carriage. Some twelve or fourteen
horses were then attached to the carriage, and off we
departed in great triumph for Peterhead. The toll-
keeper, never having seen such a mass of stone before,
did not know what to charge. However, having at

length satisfied his demand, we proceeded onwards, and
we had scarcely advanced a mile when we came to a
soft piece of road, which yielded under the great weight
of the stone, and the wheels stuck fast, buried about
9 inches in the ground. This accident created general
dismay amongst the attendant workmen, and they

Ibegan to consider the task hopeless. However, nothing

daunted by this mischance, soon rallied their courage,
and with plenty of screw-jacks, wedges, and levers
judiciously applied, we raised the wheels out of the

ground, and placed strong wooden beams under them,
forming a rough kind of railway, over which we
dragged and pushed the carriage with its stone in
safety, until we had passed the unsound part of the
road. This operation detained us about a day. Every
body worked with the greatest ardour and goodwill,
which was aided not a little by a plentiful supply of
ale and whisky, and the men were determined, for the
honour of Scotland, that they would not be beaten.
Having overcome this serious obstacle, we started again
on our journey, and reached Peterhead about four
hours afterwards, making the total length of the journey

--four miles --a day and a half. The whole town of

Peterhead, having never seen such a sight before, and

having considered our task impracticable, turned out to
see us, and welcomed us with the most enthusiastic

acclamations.

    The next thing to be done, having succeeded so far,
was to get a vessel that would take this monstrous block
QUARRIES AT PETERHEAD.       L3

of stone, as it was termed, to London ; and although
there were a considerable number of vessels in the

harbour, I could not at first prevail upon any of the

captains to take the charge. All sorts of objections

were made, and amongst the rest, it was impossible to

get the stone on board, and if they did, it would make

a hole in the bottom, and the vessel would founder with

all on board. At last, after a great deal of difficulty, I

found a brig of about 200 tons burthen, the captain of
which, after a good deal of persuasion, consented to

take the block of stone to London, provided that 1

would put it on board at my own risk and expense, and

Iindemnify him against all risk or loss on the voyage,

which accordingly agreed to do.

Then came the last important question, how was the

block to be got on board ? There was no crane in the

Iport capable of lifting above 2 or 3 tons.
      immediately set to work to supply this deficiency
by means of two sets of strong sheer-poles, capable of

bearing 10 to 15 tons each. The vessel engaged was

accordingly brought alongside the quay where the
4-ton crane was fixed, so that it should nearly plumb

the centre of the hatchway of the vessel, which it was

Inecessary to enlarge and strengthen considerably before
it could receive the stone.  then secured the sheer-

poles well at the top, and placed one set on each side of
the crane, a short distance from the extremity of each

end of the hatchway. The legs of the sheer-poles were

firmly fixed in the bed of the harbour, striding over
the vessel, so that they were perfectly independent of
the vessel, and the top of each pole was directly over the

Icentre of the hatchway. To the top of the sheer-poles

  applied a pair of strong treble sheave-blocks, capable
of receiving a thick rope ; each block was worked by

a double purchase crab or windlass manned by eight

men each, besides four to work the crane, so that the

block would be suspended at three points, the sheers
11 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

taking the greatest weight. After a good deal of

Itrouble got the whole of this apparatus as complete

as circumstances would permit, which were not the
most favourable. From the quay a strong timber
gangway was constructed over the hatchway, the outer
end being supported, clear of the vessel, by piles
driven into the bed of the harbour on each side, in

order that the ship might be kept perfectly steady
until the stone was placed within the hold, because
otherwise the stone resting upon any part of the
deck might have upset it. Everything being ready,

the stone was brought alongside the vessel and the
tackle of the crane and of the two pairs of sheer-poles
was made fast to three sets of strong chains fastened
round the stone, which was transferred upon rollers
over the centre of the hatchway of the vessel, the
purchases of the crane and sheer-poles being kept suffi

ciently tight so as to prevent any undue pressure upon

Ithe platform. The stone was then raised clear of the

platform, when heard a crack ; in fact, one of the
sheer-poles had bent and partially yielded ; it was then
blocked, and, the sheers having been first spliced with

strong rope, the stone was again hoisted and swung
clear of the platform, which was removed, and the
stone was lowered into the hold of the vessel and pro
perly secured without any further delay or accident.
The whole of these operations were witnessed with
intense interest by many of the inhabitants of Peter
head, and when so successfully completed the quays
resounded with cheers. The gallant workmen who
laboured so arduously and with such goodwill, and to

whose exertions the success may be mainly attributed,
were plenteously regaled, together with their friends,
with all the good things which Peterhead afforded, in
which the worthy inhabitants joined, and the remainder

Iof the day was passed in mutual goodwill and festivity.

    My readers will, trust, excuse the detailed manner
QUAKRIES AT PETERHEAD.  15

Iin which have described these operations, which at

the present day would be considered trifling to a degree,
but, at the time above mentioned, more than half a
century since, operations of this kind had not been

attempted, and were entirely novel, and were considered
extraordinary ; they must, therefore, be viewed as the
pioneer to the far greater operations of the kind which
have followed. For now such stones are considered
mere trifles, and blocks of almost any reasonable size

can be quarried, polished, and transported to their des
tination, however distant, at comparatively much less
cost and with greater facility. The cutting and polish
ing of granite at that time was accomplished at great
expense, as it was done entirely by manual labour ;
now it is performed by means of machinery at greatly
reduced cost, and polished granite of every kind is
 introduced into buildings, which was formerly consi
 dered impracticable ; and thus the architect is provided
 with additional means of ornamenting his structures.

 It is true that many centuries before the Egyptians had

 shown the way; but then the whole power and re
 sources of the nation had been devoted to this object,
 and incredible sums of money and great labour had
 been expended, regardless of the misery and oppres
 sion of the people. But in Great Britain it has been
 considered a true maxim of political economy, that
 every article should be produced at the least possible
 cost, and no work should be undertaken unless it would

 yield a fair profit for the capital expended ; and when
 ever there is a reasonable prospect of obtaining this
 satisfactory result, any amount of capital which may be
 required is always forthcoming. Witness the vast sums

 which have been expended on railways alone, besides

 steam-vessels, manufactures, machinery, and other similar

 undertakings.
     Whilst at Aberdeen and Peterhead, my father gave

 me an introduction to his old and intimate friend, the
16 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OK SIR JOHN RENNIE.

well-known James Ferguson, of Pitfour, the member for
the county, and the intimate friend of Mr. Pitt. Mr.
Ferguson possessed a large fortune ; he was an old
bachelor of the most amiable and charitable disposition,

beloved by everybody and universally popular through

I Iout the county. As illustrative of the manners of those

days, will simply mention that when presented my
father's letter of introduction he received me most

Ikindly, and invited me to spend a few days under his

most hospitable roof, which accepted, and on the first
day there was assembled a large party of the most
influential gentlemen of the county ; as was usual wines
of all kinds flowed in abundance, and universal hilarity
prevailed. The consequence was that not long after
dinner several of the guests fell off their chairs and
took their nap under the table, from which after a short
time they recovered and resumed their seats, and again
set to work at their potations, which continued until
long past midnight ; by this time another considerable
batch of guests were under the table, leaving their

Iglasses full. was so much amused at this unaccustomed
Iscene, that, by way of frolic, took the full glasses of

some of the guests on the floor and poured them down
their throats, which had no other effect than to make

them sleep sounder. In this manner the evening
passed merrily away, and it was late in the morning

before the whole of the company found their way to
their beds. The amiable host allowed everyone to do
as he liked, and when he had had enough, which was
not very soon, he retired to bed, leaving his guests to
take care of themselves; in fact, Pitfour was "Liberty

Hall" and was open to all comers, the only limit being

the amount of sleeping accommodation.
   To give some idea of his hospitality, Mr. Ferguson

seldom had less than thirty-six pipes of fine port
wine in his cellars, besides claret, burgundy, sherry,
champagne, brandy, and whisky, in proportion. He
            MR. FERGUSON, OF PITFOUR.           17

was so fond of Mr. Pitt, that it is believed that if Mr.
Pitt had survived him, he intended to have made him

heir to his estates, which were said to have been worth

above 20,000/. a year.

   When attending his duties in the House of Commons,

he lodged in apartments in St. James's Street, and after

the parliamentary labours of the week were over, Mr.

Pitt, the late Harry Dundas, First Lord Melville, and

Mr. Ferguson used to retire to a country house at

Wimbledon, and spend the Saturday, Sunday, and

Monday in the greatest conviviality, until it was time
to return to their parliamentary labours. Mr. Ferguson
rarely, if ever, spoke in the House of Commons, but

when he did, it was always to the purpose : his speeches,

although exceedingly short, were replete with much
common sense, accompanied by a terseness of wit,

humour, and drollery, which convulsed his hearers with

laughter,   so that he was a  hgeeanrdera"l   favourite. He used
always to   say that he had                  mony a gude speech,

but that he never changed his vote, he aye voted with

Mr. Pitt."

   Having shown the good people of Peterhead how to
get and ship the large blocks of red granite for the

Southwark Bridge, and feeling that there would be no

Ifurther difficulty about the matter, returned to London,
after an absence of two weeks, and resumed my duties

Iat the Southwark Bridge. In the spring of 1814 my

father, being desirous that should be initiated into the

practice of marine and trigonometrical surveying upon
a large scale, sent me, under the direction of the late
Mr. Francis Giles, who had then been appointed by Mr.

Rennie to make an extensive survey of the different

places where it was practicable to construct proper
artificial harbours on the south-west coast of Scotland,

such as Port Nessock, Ardwell, and Port Patrick bays,

on the Scotch side of the channel, and Ballantrae,

Donaghadee, Ballyhone, and Bangor bays, on the

                                             c

-
18 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

opposite coast of the Irish Channel, in order to decide
which were the best places on either side of the channel
to make permanent good artificial harbours for packets,
for the purpose of establishing the best and most direct
communication between the south-west coast of Scotland
and the opposite coast of Ireland. In addition to
making the surveys of the different ports above men
tioned, it was absolutely necessary to make a correct
chart of the channel within the above limits, compre
hending a coast-line of about 30 miles on each side,

including the Copeland Islands. It was also necessary

to determine the exact distances between the different

ports, together with the soundings, currents, rises of
tide, prevailing winds, and all the other attendant
hydraulic phenomena. This was a very extensive
survey, and required great skill, judgment, and expe
rience, and Mr. Giles was fully competent to under
take it.

   As the shore, particularly on the Scotch side of the
channel, was very precipitous, rugged, and mountain
ous, it was impossible to measure with anything like
accuracy a base line from which a series of triangular
observations could be made so as to connect the two

coasts together ; Mr. Giles was therefore obliged to resort
to the Bay of Luce, situated about 10 miles to the east
of Port Patrick ; it had this disadvantage, however,
that in consequence of the intervening mountains
neither the Scotch nor Irish coast could be seen. But

there was no alternative, for no other convenient place
could be found to measure a base line. The head of
the Bay of Luce, however, at low water consists of an
extensive district of flat sand 6 miles long, admirably
adapted for the purpose of measuring a correct base
line. This plan was accordingly adopted, and a base
was measured 6 miles in length, first by the common
chain, then by another chain consisting of steel links

each 5 feet long, and lastly by well-seasoned deal rods
SURVEYS AT PORT PATRICK.  19

each 10 feet long ; these measurements were repeated

with great accuracy several times, and a mean was
then struck by which the variation was reduced to

a fraction of an inch. It should also be observed that

the measurements were taken when the atmosphere
was about the same temperature, so that the final

measurement was reduced to as near accuracy as practi
cable. Having established the base, strong vertical
staffs with flags at their summits were then accurately
fixed upon the summits of the neighbouring mountains
which overlooked the Irish Channel, and from which

on a clear day the opposite coast of Ireland could be
distinctly seen. From each end of the base the above-
mentioned angles were taken with one of Troughton's

best 7-inch theodolites, between the different mountain

stations, and the distance between the extreme points of
these stations was accurately calculated, so that it gave

a base line of about 30 miles along the Scotch coast, from

whence correct sights were taken on flagstaffs fixed on
the high land above Bangor, Donaghadee, and Ballan-
trae, including the Copeland Islands on the opposite coast
of Ireland. These observations being taken on different

levels, were subsequently reduced to the same plane, so

that the exact distance was obtained between the dif
ferent stations on each side of the channel, and a correct
chart was made. In addition to the general survey,
detailed hydraulic charts were made of the places on
each coast which were best adapted for making har
bours of the size required, viz. Port Nessock, Ardwell,
and Port Patrick, on the Scotch side, and Bangor,
Ballyhone, Donaghadee, and Ballantrae, on the Irish
side of the channel ; and as there was a great variety
of interests concerned, each proprietor being desirous
of having the permanent ports established on his own
property, it was finally decided by the Government,
at the recommendation of my father, that the whole of

the surveys should be submitted to the arbitration

                                                                             c2
20 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

of the Trinity Board, to select one port on each side of

the channel which was best adapted for establishing a

communication by packets between the two countries for
letters and passengers in the most expeditious, con

venient, and effective manner. The Trinity Board, after

having given the subject their most mature considera
tion, ultimately decided on Port Patrick on the Scotch,
and Donaghadee on the Irish side. This decision was
approved of by the Government, and Mr. Rennie was
desired by them to prepare designs for harbours in

both of the above places ; he did so, and the Govern

ment ordered them to be carried into effect under his

direction : for a more particular description the reader
is referred to my work on British and Foreign

IHarbours. During the progress of these surveys

learned a great deal in this important department of

civil engineering, and personally surveyed the bay of

Port Nessock and the Copeland Islands, which gave me

an excellent lesson, as, on account of the rugged nature

of the coasts, they were attended with considerable

difficulties.

  As already observed, in the following year, 1815, I

was placed under Mr. Giles' direction during the whole

period of  the survey  of the river Tyne,  which had been
           to him by   my father also. In
entrusted                                  the same year I

was under Mr. Giles during the surveys for the Barnard

ICastle, and Stockton and Darlington railways and canal ;

and subsequently made a hydraulic survey of the

Iport of Blythe for my father, and for which he after
wards made a design for its improvement.   had been

previously employed under Mr. Giles in the surveys for

the eastern extension of the Kennet and Avon Canal.

IDuring a part of this time our head quarters were at

Windsor ; and one Sunday afternoon recollect very

well attending the promenade on the terrace at Windsor

Castle when His Majesty King George the Third, accom

panied by the Queen and Royal Family, made their
PLAN FOR NORTHFLEET DOCKYARD.                          21

appearance with their attendants and joined the pro

menade, and were received in the most loyal and affec
                                I also about the same
tionate yet respectful manner.

time assisted Mr. Giles in the survey of the Thames in

the vicinity of Woolwich Dockyard, the accumulation of

the mud in front of which was so great at that time

that it threatened to render that dockyard useless. The

evil to a certain extent has since been remedied by

removing a number of the projections which interfered

with the currents of the ebb and flood tide, according

to the plan laid down by the late Mr. Rennie, although,

as he clearly pointed out, it would be impossible

to improve the river to such an extent in front of

Woolwich and Deptford dockyards as to render them

fit for the construction and accommodation of large

vessels of war ; and therefore he recommended that

they should be abandoned and sold, and that a proper

establishment should be made at Northfleet capable of

accommodating at all times of tide any number of the

largest vessels of war at that time in the navy, or that

might be built hereafter. This dockyard was intended

to be so arranged that all classes of vessels of war

could be built there ; and it would contain establish

ments for manufacturing cordage, sails, anchors, guns,

smith work of every kind, together with depots of pro

visions, and stores of all sorts, all of which were to be

arranged in such a manner that each operation of

building, repairing, storing, and fitting out for sea

should be completed in the order required; so that a

vessel, after having been built, might be transferred at
once into a dry dock to be coppered, then take in her

masts, ballast, rigging, sails, stores, provisions, guns,

boats, and seamen, and sail at once complete to her

station from the centre dock-gates ; in the same manner,

when returning from her station, she might be re

paired and fitted out again ready for sea. The saving

effected by such an establishment would have been im-
22 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

mense, and the service would have been performed in

a far more expeditious and effective manner. Mr. Pitt

was then Prime Minister, and his master mind at once

acknowledged the advantages of such an establishment;

it was accordingly approved of by the Government, the
land was bought, and it was ordered to be carried into
effect, but the unfortunate death of that great minister

and the change of Government effectually put a stop to
all further proceedings in this direction. Since that
time the old dockyards of Woolwich and Deptford,

Sheerness and Chatham, have been improved and en

larged, at an expenditure as great as would have com

pleted Mr. Rennie's establishment at Northfleet, with

out half the efficiency or accommodation.  The old

useless dockyards of Woolwich and Deptford, which the
late Lord Melville, when First Lord of the Admiralty,

condemned and ordered to be sold, have been retained,

and the increase of unnecessary expense has been
enormous, whilst the evils complained of have not
been remedied till quite lately.

Having by this time a considerable knowledge of

Isurveying, practical and theoretical, in all its depart

ments either on land or water, so that could undertake

Ieither, my father deemed that had learned sufficient,

and directed me to return to my practical duties in the
construction of the Southwark Bridge. As this was con

Isidered a work of great importance and difficulty felt

highly honoured by my father's confidence, and devoted
my energies to it with the greatest anxiety and with a

determination to do everything in my power to make it
successful. The difficulty of obtaining the large blocks
of granite and other stone had been successfully over

come, and they arrived with great punctuality, and the

masonry of the abutments and piers was successfully car
ried into effect as previously described. Then came

the important question of erecting the cast-iron arches ;

each arch consisted of eight main ribs, and each rib
SOUTHWARK BRIDGE.  23

consisted of thirteen pieces, the lower or main part of
which formed the chord or arch upon which the whole of

the superstructure was to be supported. These thirteen

pieces were solid, 2| inches thick in the mass and
3 inches thick at the bottom, and 2| thick at the top,
and formed so many radiating blocks, like arch-stones.

At the end of every block there was a transverse

frame extending from one side to the other through
the whole width of the bridge ; against each side of

these frames the main ribs abutted and were nicely
fitted to them, and in order to prevent them from moving

laterally there were projecting dovetailed cheeks cast

on the frame, and between these cheeks and the ends

of the main ribs solid cast-iron wedges the whole depth
of the main rib were fitted, then drawn home against
the ends of the rib ; by this means the ribs were kept
firmly within their places, and as an additional precau

tion strong diagonal braces, having a strong feathering
rib on each side, were inserted diagonally between the
ribs from one end of the arch to the other, and secured

to the ribs by projecting dovetailed cheeks on them, and
wedges and bolts, so that these cast-iron arches were

constructed in the same manner as a stone arch, being
almost as it were a solid mass depending upon the equi
librium of the different pieces for its stability. The
depth of the main rib of the centre arch at the crown is
6 feet and 8 feet at the piers, whilst the depth of the
ribs of the side arches at the crown is 6 feet and 8 feet

at the abutments. As these ribs with their attendant

transverse frames and diagonal braces formed the main
part of the arches upon which the whole of the super
structure depended, it was necessary that they should

be extremely well put together and properly united to

the piers and abutments. Contrary to the usual mode
of constructing stone arches, they were commenced at
the centre instead of the sides, a strong wooden centring

supported upon tiers of piles having been previously
24 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

constructed between the piers and abutments to support
them whilst being put in their places. Each piece of
each rib was carefully placed upon the centre, resting

upon nicely-adjusted strong wooden double wedges,
and connected together as they proceeded by the trans
verse frames and diagonal braces before mentioned. By
this means the whole of the arches were constructed at

the same time from the centre to the skewbacks or bear
ing parts of the piers and abutments ; but in order to
connect them properly with them it was necessary to
devise a particular arrangement. For this purpose a

transverse frame, similar to those already described
for connecting the rib pieces together, was accurately
imbedded and fitted to the skewbacks or bearing
places on piers and abutments, resting on a bed of
sheet lead, and the joints were filled in with melted
lead also; this formed a solid and to a certain extent

elastic bearing, upon which the main ribs were ulti

mately to rest.

   At the ends of the arched rib-plates next to the piers

and abutments there was another transverse frame plate
of the same kind as those previously described, and
fixed there in a similar manner ; this brought the ends

of the arches within 6 inches of the abutting or bearing
plates fixed in the skewbacks or springing places of the

piers and abutments.
   Between the frame plates fitted on the skewbacks or

masonry of the piers and abutments, and those fitted on
the ends of the rib plates of each arch, solid cast-iron
wedges, 9 feet long and 6 inches thick at the back, and
2 inches thick at the bottom, 9 inches wide, three being
behind each rib, were accurately fitted by chipping and
filing, so that it would slide down to within 12 inches
of the bottom ; when these wedges were all accurately
adjusted at the same temperature to the same depth,
they were simultaneously driven home by wooden rams
to their full depth, so as to reach about an inch below
         SOUTHWARK BRIDGE.        25

the bottom of each rib ; by this means the whole
of the three arches were gradually brought to their

bearing without being raised wholly from their centres.

Matters were then allowed to remain in this state for a

few days in order to give time for every part to come

to its bearing and to ascertain whether there was any
defect in any part.
After the minutest search in every part no defect

could be discovered ; the wedges between the centres

and the under sides of the ribs were then gradually

slackened until the whole of the arches came to their

full bearing, and were removed entirely, leaving the

arches perfectly free of support. During the whole

of these operations, from first to last, which occupied

about a week, not the slightest accident or fracture

occurred ; the total subsidence of the main arch barely

exceeded 2\ inches, whilst the subsidence of the two
side arches barely exceeded 2 inches, which had been

allowed for in the construction.

   In order to ascertain the effects of expansion and

Icontraction of the arches by the variation of the tem

perature of the atmosphere, constructed steel, brass,

and wooden gauges, accurately divided into decimal

parts of an inch, and erected them upon different parts

of the centres, where the effects were most likely to

be apparent, and I kept the register for several weeks,
Iduring the height of summer, autumn, winter, and
spring.  found that the variation in the rise and fall

of the crown of the arches, the abutments being fixed,

was yjth of an inch for every 10 of temperature, so
that, taking the extremes of temperature at London

to be 10 below freezing point of Fahrenheit in winter,

and 80 in summer ; the utmost rise and fall of the

arches may be taken at -j^ths, or at most one inch ; but

as any variation in the temperature, unless continued

for some time, has no sensible effect upon such a large

mass of iron, so, in our variable climate, the rise and fall
26 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

of the crowns of the arches may be taken upon the

average somewhat below the amount above given.
   After the arches had been brought to their bearing

and had been relieved from the centres, the super-

structural framework was carried up and firmly con

nected and bracketed together by diagonal ties and
wedges ; in doing this the ends of the superstructural
frames were too tightly wedged to the masonry of the
piers, without my knowledge, so that they would not
allow the main ribs of the arches to play freely, and
some of the masonry courses above the main ribs

were slightly splintered and deranged; the wedges
were then slackened, and some of them removed en

tirely, and thus the evil was immediately remedied ;
the whole structure has ever since remained in a

perfect state.

   The bridges and approaches were finally completed
and opened to the public traffic in March, 1819, the
ceremony being performed by Sir John Jackson, the

chairman, the directors, and a few friends.

   In the month of August, 1818, having worked very

I Ihard, may say almost night and day, for some time,

was nearly worn out, and was permitted to have a short

holiday. I therefore determined to go to Belgium and

visit the celebrated field of Waterloo, which closed the

long and eventful revolutionary war, and attracted the
admiration and interest of the whole civilized world.

I accordingly started for Dover, in company with my

old friend, the late Mr. Joseph Gwilt, architect, and

crossed over to Calais.

On landing we repaired to Dessin's hotel, at that

time one of the best in Europe, and rendered famous by

Sterne, whose rooms are still shown as one of the most

interesting curiosities (to Englishmen at least) of the
place. Here we passed                   of the day very
agreeably. Everything    the remainder
                          was new to    us--the people,

their language, their manners, their mode of living.
TOUR IN FRANCE.  27

We had been so long considering the French as our

deadly foes that we could hardly believe ourselves to be
at peace with them, and to be actually in France and so
civilly treated by them. Then the living was so good
and cheap, compared to that of England ; champagne,
which with us was considered the greatest luxury, and
only within reach of the highest and most wealthy, was
here obtainable for four francs a bottle, whilst in Eng
land it was twenty-four, and almost everything in the

same proportion. In the town of Calais there is nothing

to see. The harbour is but indifferent, and almost dry
at low water, and is chiefly maintained open by sluicing
and dredging. On such a flat, sandy shore, with the
prevailing winds and currents always driving on and

Iaccumulating the sands, it is very difficult to make

and maintain a good harbour ; still think that a great

deal more might be effected by pursuing a different
course, and having a proper system of open piers and
breakwaters on the outside. After breakfast on the fol

lowing day we started in a travelling caleche, with two
horses, for St. Omer, about 26 miles distant. On our

way we stopped to examine the celebrated quadrangular
bridge, called the Pont Sans Pareille, across the junction
of the two canals of Picardy. This is certainly a
meritorious, well-executed work, but the idea is by no
means new, as the Gothic triangular bridge of Crow-
land, in Lincolnshire, across the junction of the Wel land,
was executed many centuries previous to the Pont
Sans Pareille, and is still extant in a perfect state.

Near this bridge is the celebrated maiden fortress of
Ardres, which is said to have never been taken. Here

also, according to Froissart, was the Champs d'Or, or
Field of the Cloth of Gold. Ardres is a poor, miserable
little fortress, surrounded with earthworks and ditch, on

a flat plain. In ancient times it might have been for

midable, with their means of attack, but now it would

be utterly defenceless. From Ardres we passed through
28 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

St. Omer and Lille, and after visiting Tournay and
Ghent we proceeded to the capital of Belgium, where

we took up our quarters at the Hotel de Flandre, in the
highest and best part of the city. We were particularly
struck with the magnificent Hotel de Ville and its lofty

spire ; also the remarkable place or square in front of

it,
                              it
which, looking to its picturesque mediaeval buildings

and the remarkable historical events which have taken

place there, renders              one of the most interesting in

Europe. The fine old Gothic cathedral of St. Gudule,

the museum, fine canals, &c., particularly attracted our

attention.

   On the next morning we started for the scene of the
celebrated battle of Waterloo, which had occurred about
two months previously. In this place, like every Eng

lishman, took the greatest possible interest, and pic
tured to myself the whole of that terrific and stirring
I

                     it
scene as being enacted before me. Notwithstanding the

lapse of time since which that battle had taken place
considerable traces of were still visible, particularly
in the blood-stained walls and ruined, desolate, and half-

consumed buildings of the keys of the position, Hou-
gumont and La Haye Sainte, and the remnants of shakos,

arms, and military clothing which strewed the field on

all sides, and the fresh-made graves, where many thou

sand gallant fellows lay entombed. The whole field and

neighbouring villages were crowded with guides to ex
plain the different particulars of that memorable struggle,

and to sell the numerous articles which they had raked;
up from the field of battle we bought some of these as
mementos, and wandered for hours over every part of
this field of desolation, until we fancied that we had

mastered every detail of the conflict, and were almost

fit to take the command of an army ourselves. We then

returned to Brussels, highly gratified and instructed by

the excursion.

We left Brussels much pleased with that pretty little
WATERLOO, BRUSSELS, AND ANTWERP.              29

industrious capital, and proceeded to Malines, where the
fine old cathedral and town rewarded us well during our

short visit. From thence we journeyed on to Antwerp,

where we stopped at the Grand Labourer, a celebrated

old-fashioned hotel. This famous old city, the great
emporium of the Belgian trade, interested me much,

with its magnificent cathedral and other churches, its
fine old Hotel de Ville, and spacious quays and

docks ; the Scheldt is here a fine river. There was a

good museum of Dutch and Flemish pictures, but the

Ichef-dceuvres of Rubens and Vandyke had not yet
returned from Paris.  was much struck with the ex

tent and strength of the fortifications ; also with the
costume of the natives, particularly that of the women,

which still resembled a good deal that of their former

masters, the Spaniards. At the time of our visit every

thing was in a depressed state. Its trade had not yet

recovered from the effects of the great war, and its then
silent streets contrasted greatly with their former acti

vity. The Roman Catholic religious ceremonies were

conducted with great magnificence, and struck us simple

Protestants, who had never witnessed anything of the

kind before, with considerable astonishment.

   We left Antwerp for Ghent, and took our departure
for Bruges in one of the trackschuyts or barges, by
means of which the great bulk of the goods and pas
senger traffic of the kingdom was carried on. These

canals are magnificent specimens of the kind, and,

being upon a much greater scale than our own, parti

cularly struck me with admiration. The canal was

bounded on each side with spacious banks, and was of

great width, with a towing path and carriage way for
general traffic. These banks were bounded by rows of

trees, which serve for shade ; at the same time their

clippings and timber yield a considerable amount of

profit.
   We reached Bruges about noon, and had just time to
30 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

examine the fine cathedral and townhall, as well as the

interesting town, its quaint old buildings, quays, mer
cantile warehouses, all in the architecture of the Middle

Ages, during which Bruges attained its greatest pros
perity. We left this interesting town in the afternoon by
another trackschuy t for Ostend, about 1 2 miles distant,

by a canal of the same dimensions as the one above

described. Most of these canals being connected with

each other, Brussels, Ghent, Malines, Louvain, and the

other large towns, possessed a complete network of water
communication with the ports of Antwerp and Ostend,

and trade is carried on with the greatest facility.

We reached Ostend in the evening, and learned that

a packet was about to sail for Margate, of which we
determined to avail ourselves. We had, however, suffi

cient time to examine this indifferent port, the second

in the kingdom, which, in addition to a badly-contrived

entrance by two guide piers, has two small docks. It is

a mere tidal harbour, with an awkward bar at the

entrance, and numerous shoals on the outside. The

town possesses nothing remarkable ; it was then garri
soned by English troops, and there was constant com

Imunication with England.

   From this period devoted my time almost exclu

sively to the Waterloo and Southwark bridges, but

particularly to the latter, which was almost entirely

Iunder my direction, subject to the orders of my father.

Besides the above works, was a good deal employed

in the drawing office in making drawings and estimates

and calculations for a variety of new works upon which
Imy father was engaged.
                         also occasionally visited

the rolling and other machinery of the Royal Mint on
Tower Hill, which my father at that time was con

structing for the Government, and during the even

Iings was employed in learning mathematics under

Dr. Bradley and Dr. Firminger, and the Italian, French,
                   WATERLOO BRIDGE.  31

and German languages, so that my time from morning
Ito evening was fully employed.
                                 must not omit to say
Ithat at this time attended the lectures of the celebrated

Sir Humphry Davy, the Professor of Chemistry at the

Royal Institution, who at that day astonished the world

by his wonderful discoveries.

The first, second, and third arches of the Waterloo

Bridge being completed, Mr. Rennie determined to

slacken the centres of the first arch, which was on

the Surrey shore, where the bridge commenced. This

was when the arches were entirely relieved from the

centres, and the total subsiding of this arch was
2\ inches, which is nearly half an inch less than had
been allowed ; the centres were then removed from the

first arch to the fourth arch, only three centres being

employed. Each centre consisted of eight ribs, upon

the truss principle, resting upon a compound system
of wedges, supported upon struts placed upon the

offsets of the piers and abutments ; all the ribs were

well connected together by transverse and diagonal

ties, as well as the planking upon which the arch-
stones rested. The trestles or bearers of the centre

ribs, together with the wedges, having been first fixed
in their places upon the offsets of the pier and abut

ment where the centre was to be fixed, four ribs of the

centre were transferred, and fixed upon them in the

following manner.

The ribs of the centre having been constructed

upon a platform upon the shore near the bridge, a large
barge or floating stage, capable of carrying four com
plete ribs, which weighed 40 tons each, was built to

receive them. This floating stage was extremely strong,
and transversely across the centre of it there were four

strong stages at the same distance from each other as
the ribs of the centre were intended to be when fixed in

their position, to support the arches whilst building.
32 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

These stages were supported by double transverse

beams, resting upon powerful screws 15 inches diameter,
in boxes resting upon the bottom of the vessel. Above
each of these stages, yet securely attached to them, was
a framework, to which the ribs of the centres were

lashed whilst being transported to their places. When
the centre ribs were finished and all was ready, the

floating stage, at high water, was brought alongside the
platform, upon which the ribs of the centre had been
constructed, and were lying ready to be transferred to
their places. Each rib was then raised by means of
powerful sheer-poles, to which were double-purchase
crabs, treble blocks, with all the necessary ropes, chains,
and other tackle, by which means each rib of the centre
was readily raised from the platform where it was built
and transferred to its proper stage in the floating barge,
and there secured in an upright position, when the
ribs had been fixed in their places. The barge was
then floated into the opening where the arch was to be
constructed, which was generally done about half an
hour before high water, so as to allow ample time to
adjust and fix the ribs over the corresponding pair
of wedges and trestles upon which it was ultimately
to rest, which was done as the tide fell, and adjusted
to the greatest nicety by the screws before mentioned ;
when the rib had been fixed in its place, the barge
returned to bring another, which was served in the
same manner as the first, and thus the fixing of one
centre occupied only six days. This system answered

most effectually, and was subsequently adopted by
Mr. Robert Stephenson for fixing the great tubes for
the Menai and Conway bridges.

    The Waterloo Bridge, as well known, consists of nine

equal semi-elliptical arches, 120 feet span each, with a
rise of 34 feet 6 inches, the keystones at the crown

 being 4 feet 6 inches deep and 10 feet at the spring,
 and 18 inches thick at the soffit; inverted arches on each
WATERLOO BRIDGE.  33

pier between the main arches 4 feet 6 inches deep.
The piers were 20 feet wide, each having projecting but
tresses, supported by two three-quarter Doric columnar
pilasters, over each pier, the whole being surmounted
by a Doric block cornice and balustrade parapet, level
from end to end, the same as the roadway. The road
way above the piers was supported by six brick walls,
2 ft. 3 in. thick, covered with corbel stones. The shores
being low on both sides of the river, the approaches are
constructed so as to form an inclined plane rising 1 in 30
on the Surrey side, and nearly level on the north, or
Middlesex side, with the Strand, upon a series of brick
arches 16 feet wide each. These arches serve for
storehouses. The roadway was formed by a layer of
well-puddled clay 15 inches thick, then a layer of lime
and of fine gravel 3 inches thick, then a layer of equally
broken granite, in pieces 2 inches in diameter, 1 foot
thick. Through the centre of the masonry of each pier
a hole 18 inches in diameter was cut, entering the river
on one side of the pier at low water, and from the top
of this hole inside the pier cast-iron branch pipes of the
same diameter were carried to side drains on each side
of the roadway, so that all rain and surface water was
effectually carried off into the river, thus preventing

leakage.
    The piers and abutments were founded in the solid

bed of the river, which is strong gravel ; they rest upon
a wooden platform, supported upon piles 12 inches in
diameter driven 20 feet into the bed of the river. The
 whole of the arches and exterior face of the bridge are
built of Cornish granite, from the vicinity of Penryn,
 and the balustrade is made of fine grey Aberdeen

 granite.
    The contract for the Cornish granite was taken by a

 very worthy man of the name of Gray, and the price
 was such as on so large a quantity ought to have
 enabled him to realize a very handsome profit ; but

                                                                                                                       D
34 AUTOBIOGKAPIIY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

he had no system or machinery adequate for the purpose,
and instead of opening quarries properly upon an

enlarged scale in the solid rock, by which he would

have saved a great deal, he chiefly confined his opera

tions to the loose outlying blocks, which reduced his
profits considerably, and in the end it is very doubtful
whether he did more than cover his expenses. As the

dressing of granite for masonry was entirely new at that
time, nothing having been built of this material in

London, it was extremely difficult to find masons who

would undertake;   even at such enormous prices

                             it,
                                               ?)

                                                                         a
as Is. 9d. to 2s. per cube foot, so that the contractors,

Messrs. Jolliffe and Banks, could not afford to pay it.

Workmen were therefore obtained from Aberdeen,

and the price was ultimately reduced from 2s. to

Is. notwithstanding, however, the prime cost of the

stone, the freight, dressing, mortar, and setting complete
in the bridge cost about 7s. 2d. to 7s. 3rf., so that the

total cost was near 7s. 6d. It should be observed,

however, that at that time there was duty of three

pence per cubic foot (or ton on stone, which has since
been taken off. The interior stone consisted of hard

sandstone from Derbyshire and Yorkshire.

   The bridge and approaches were completed and

opened with great ceremony by George IV., then

Prince Regent, on the 15th of June, 1817, in com

memoration of the battle of Waterloo, after which                           ; it

was especially named. Twenty-five pieces of artillery

were placed on the centre of the bridge, which fired
   salute as His Royal Highness, the directors of the
a

Company, and brilliant suite walked over in pro
   it
                                    Waterloo Bridge, and
                a
cession, when he christened  it it

declared open to the public. His Royal Highness
came by water in his state barge, accompanied by the
Admiralty and other barges, in which were the ministers

and suite he landed at the stairs on the south-east side of
   ;

the bridge, and walked over from south to north
WATERLOO BRIDGE.      35

he embarked again on the north-east side, and returned
to Whitehall and Carlton House. The sight was very
brilliant, the weather magnificent, and everybody seemed

to be satisfied.

   The total cost of the bridge was 565,000/., which was
10,000/. more than estimated by Mr. Rennie ; the ap
proaches, besides the land and buildings, cost a further
sum of 112,000/.; so that the total cost of the bridge

and approaches was 677,000/., and the land and build
ings and contingencies 373,000/., making a total of
1,050,000/. This is certainly a very large sum for a

bridge and its approaches ; but when its extent is con
sidered, the bridge alone being a quarter of a mile
long, and the approaches nearly three-quarters of a
mile more, also the great cost of materials and labour
of every kind, the stone-cutting costing from 4s. to 6s.
a cubic foot in the rough state, timber from 7/. to 14/.

per load, and labour in the same proportion (which
is more than double the present price), we cannot be

surprised at the total cost.

  I still continued my duties at the Southwark Bridge,

which was completed in March, 1819, and was opened
without any ceremony by Sir John Jackson, the chair
man of the Company, and the other directors.

                  d2
36 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN HENNIE.

               CHAPTER II.

Travels in     Switzerland, Italy, Greece, Asia Minor, Constan
     tinople,  and Egypt -- Keturn to England -- Death of Mr.

Eennie.

I had now received a tolerably good education, both
theoretical and practical, as a civil engineer ; but before

entering fully into practice   on   mI yshoowulnd  account, my
father thought it advisable   that                 travel for a

time to study what had been done in ancient and mo

Idern times both in architecture and engineering.

accordingly left England on the 7th of June, 1819, in

J.company with my cousin, Colonel, now General, Sir

    Aitchison, and the late Lord Hotham, his friend.
We had a thirty-three hours' passage from Brighton

to Dieppe, during which time, having exhausted the

captain's store of bread and cheese, not very abundant,

we were glad to fall back on a dozen mackerel, which

Lord Hotham's servant was fortunate enough to catch.

We passed through France without much incident;
but when the view from the summit of the Jura sud

denly burst upon us, the magnificent scene made a most

lasting impression upon my memory. The valley of

the Rhone, the Lake of Geneva, backed by Mont

Blanc and its splendid range of mountains, rose

before us as if by magic ; we were totally unprepared
it,
for could scarcely believe our senses, and stood en
raptured for nearly half an hour. We then descended

to Geneva, where we passed several days very agree

ably, examining what was then the picturesque old
town, with its clumsy, old-fashioned waterworks; for

the improvement of these my father, through the well
                     SWITZERLAND.                          37

known Dr. Marcet, had just made a design for the

municipality, which was much approved of, and which

I understand has since been partially carried into effect.
I here made the acquaintance of General Dufour, so

well known for his scientific acquirements, and after

a few days went on an expedition to Chamounix, where,
as no one then thought of ascending Mont Blanc, we

climbed the Montanvert and the Mer de Glace, where

I made some experiments with Leslie's hygrometer.

Having returned to Geneva, we started again on the
7th July for a more extended tour in the mountains,

going by the lakes of Morat and Bienne, the scene
Iof the great battle of 1476.
                                   examined these two

lakes, which were evidently rapidly filling up, but by
lowering the outfalls a great part of the whole might

be recovered, whereas at present the borders are to

a great extent covered with reeds, and the marshes

exhale unwholesome effluvia. After passing through

Freibourg, where the bridge, then newly opened, was
considered one of the wonders of Switzerland, and

which, as a most remarkable work of its kind, I ex

amined attentively, we passed on to Berne, and going

through the mountains, returned to Geneva. On our
way, being at Meyringen, and short of ready cash, we

proposed either to return direct to Geneva, or to change
one of Herries' circular notes ; but on offering one of

these notes to the landlord, he at once said there

was no occasion for  I it,
                                                        a

                                                   I
                     as we were Englishmen, and

that was enough. Having produced large bag of

five-franc pieces, he told us to help ourselves, and
was with difficulty persuaded to take one of Herries'
notes in exchange.
                     merely mention this to show

how high the name of Englishmen then stood on the

Continent.

   Leaving Geneva for Italy, we proceeded by the
route of the Simplon, the construction of which had

promised to observe very attentively for my father.
33 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENN1E.

The first portion only presents, as objects of interest, the
excavations through the rock of St. Gingough, near the

upper end of the lake. From Martigny we started up
the valley of the Rhone, where, though the ground

is generally level, the road yet encounters considerable

difficulties from the river, which here assumes the

character of a torrent, and when swollen by floods
sweeps almost everything before it; wandering from
side to side it deposits the debris of the one side on the

banks of the other, forming, we may say, alternately

rapids and almost still pools, which renders it extremely
difficult to confine its course within any reasonable

limits ; so that the art of the engineer is taxed to the

uttermost. I thought that in many places the works

were not designed with that solidity which is so neces

sary under such circumstances, and that sufficient
Iprecautions were not taken to arrest the progress of
the debris.  considered that by providing deposi

tories for it at certain favourable stations, the violence

of the floods might have been considerably controlled,
a much greater extent of land on both sides of the river

rendered available for cultivation, and the extensive

marshes, which, operated upon by a powerful sun, now

produce most injurious exhalations, might have been

deprived of their baneful influence.

   Having passed Sion, we left Brieg early on the

I10th of August, and as soon as we began the ascent

Idescended from the carriage, and with line and rule
   measured every bridge until we reached Boveno, on

the Lake Maggiore. I sent off from Milan, as I had

promised, a detailed account of this celebrated road to

Imy father, giving a drawing and account of every

work, which afterwards had the gratification of know

ing afforded him great pleasure. The whole Pass must

have at first sight been appalling to the engineers who

traced the line of road ; and although many other

works of the kind of greater magnitude have been since
MILAN AND LOMBARDY.                                                            ay

executed, nevertheless, all things considered, it is worthy

the approbation of mankind, and does great credit both

Ito those who designed and those who executed it.

   We reached Milan* on the 12th of August, and was

much struck with the fine canal which unites it with

Pavia, and which can only be compared with the canals

of Belgium. It has been said that the first pound lock

was invented and executed by the famous Leonardi da

Vinci, but subsequent inquiries have induced me to

believe that our own country is entitled to the honour
Iin the Exeter ship canal.
                                       was also greatly pleased
with the system of irrigation employed generally
throughout Lombardy. This system was originally

introduced by the Italians themselves, and during the

Austrian rule was carried to the greatest perfection,

Lombardy being by nature peculiarly well adapted to

it. The vast and fertile valley of the Po is for

the most part destitute of rain during the summer,
when it is most wanted ; but it fortunately happens

that at this season water is most abundant from the

melting of the snows on the Alps, which descend into

the adjacent lakes and rivers, and would be otherwise

wasted and thrown away if not employed for fertilizing

the land. The water, therefore, at this season is con

ducted by an elaborate system of artificial canals, and

distributed over the adjacent lands according to their

respective levels, at a certain price, varying with the

    * Let me here relate an anecdote   his station before his former master's
of the almost incredible instinct of
                                       sentry-box.  After a time the dog
Ithe dog. Passing by the palace of
                                       came to be talked about, and at length
the Austrian viceroy, observed a dog
sitting with an air of profound melan  the viceroy, an Austrian archduke,
choly before one of the sentry-boxes.  had him brought into the palace
Colonel Brown, our representative,     and tried to domesticate him, but he
who was then with me, said that this
dog formerly belonged to a soldier of  always returned to the sentry-box,
the body-guard of Eugene Beauhar-
nois,the viceroy, and accompanied his  where he lay motionless, and at times
master to Moscow. The man never
returned, but upwards of two years     moaning. Seeing this, the archduke
                                       ordered him daily rations, and he was
afterwards the dog did, and resumed
                                       placed in the sentry's orders for pro

                                       tection, and in this state I saw him ;

                                       but a short time after the dog died,

                                       apparently inconsolable.
40 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

quantity distributed. Thus the constant supply of

water, the high temperature, and the fertility of the

soil combined, produce the most abundant crops, and

the plains of Lombardy are rendered the most pro
ductive and valuable in Europe ; whereas in winter,

when the temperature is lowest, the snow is congealed

on the Alps, and comparatively little water comes down

when it is least wanted.

From Milan we reached Verona, where the bridge,

consisting principally of brick, with binding courses of

marble, can boast of one of the largest brick arches in

the world, an excellent example of what may be done
with this material when properly handled. After

passing Vicenza and Padua, we reached Venice early in

September, 1819.

The extraordinary and at the same time most beau

tiful and novel appearance of the city, with numerous

Itowers and spires, about which had read and heard so

much, and had so long wished to see, now stood before

Ime, and its loveliness more than realized my most san

guine expectations. When considered its origin, a

few fishermen's huts built upon the mud banks of the

lagoon by men flying from the invasion of Attila, then
the rise of the great republic whose wealth, conquests,

and influence were destined hereafter to play such an
important part in the world, and lastly the fallen and
           state in which it then presented
degraded                                       itself  before
           lost in astonishment ; I was for a  while   trans
me, I was

Iported as it were in a dream, and could scarcely believe

where was.
The Grand Canal first attracted our notice, -- perhaps

there is no thoroughfare in the world lined with so many
magnificent palaces, -- and along which we passed until

we came to the Rialto, a drawing of which I made and
sent to my father. But if I was delighted, and I may
almost say astonished, at the Grand Canal, I was still
more so with the Place of St. Marc and its surrounding
                    VENICE.                   4J

buildings, so varied in their architectural styles, yet each

so picturesque and elegant in itself, and combined

together forming at once the most interesting and beau

tiful scene of the kind in the world. It is one of those

 at least speaking          for myself, that  never satiates
more looked the             more admired
I Isights,                                    it. As to the

-- the
details of these different buildings which we saw, they
are so much better described in the numerous guide
Ibooks that it is unnecessary to repeat them here.

      visited every part of the lagoons, including the

various islands, all of which are more or less deserving

of notice, particularly the island of Murano, the seat
of the celebrated glass manufactories ; and also the Mo

ravian establishment. But what really most interested

me were the lagoons, and the means which must have

been resorted to for keeping them open, notwithstand

ing the numerous causes which were and are constantly
in operation to fill them up with the alluvial matter

brought down from the mountains and plains by the

various rivers and streams which discharge their waters

into this portion of the Adriatic, also from the alluvium

brought in from the adjacent shores, by the tide, which

rises from 2 to 4 feet, and at times, during heavy gales

from the southward, as much as 6 feet, overflowing the

quays of St. Marc's Place.

There was a long-continued discussion amongst the

numerous distinguished mathematicians, engineers, and

others who have written upon this subject, as to the
best way of preventing the filling up of the harbour.
Some contended that the only method of effecting this

was to admit all the rivers into the lagoons freely ; for

although they might deposit a certain amount of alluvial

matter, nevertheless the great quantity of water dis

charged would alone be sufficient to carry away this

deposit. But they forgot that when the rivers met

the sea the current would necessarily be checked and

rendered powerless to carry forward any matter which
       AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIH JOHN RENNIE.

might be held in suspension, and that consequently the
detritus would be deposited and form banks and shoals
which the waters could not remove ; thus in time the

lagoons would be filled up, grass marshes would be
formed, the city of Venice would be united to the

mainland, and the harbour would be destroyed. On
the other hand, it was argued, for the reasons above
mentioned, that the only way to preserve the lagoons

and the port of Venice was to exclude the rivers when
densely charged with alluvial matter, and only to

admit their waters at certain times, when they were

comparatively clear; thus all the advantage would be
obtained from the scour of these rivers, without the

disadvantage arising from their deposits. Ultimately
the arguments of the latter prevailed, the rivers were

excluded from the lagoons by making a capacious canal
all around them with sluices at their mouths, by means

of which the waters were discharged into the lagoons
when they were tolerably clear of alluvial matter ; the

surplus waters were discharged into the adjacent sea
clear of the lagoons, and any alluvial matter which was

brought in from the sea was removed by dredging from
the main channels of the lagoons, so that they were in

a fit state to admit the tidal waters and thus to keep the

lagoons open.

   But there was another important agent to be pro

vided against, namely, the alluvial matter brought in

by the winds, waves, and currents from the scouring
of the adjacent shores of the Adriatic ; this is done

to a certain extent by dredging. Originally these
banks contributed materially to the formation of the

Ifouter banks, which protect the lagoon on the sea
side.  these banks were broken through or com

pletely swept away, which the storms of the Adriatic

frequently threatened to do, the lagoon, and with it the

port, would be seriously injured or totally destroyed.

This was remedied by defending this outer barrier bank
                             VENICE.                            43

of the lagoon by facing it with stone, and where the sea
was most violent by constructing a solid breakwater of
stone, and protecting it further by stone filters carried
out a sufficient distance into the sea in order to divert

the current, and to enable the alluvial matter to be de

posited between them so as to form an additional pro
tection to the main breakwater ; this was accordingly
done, and thus an extraordinary work at great expense
has been constructed between Lido and Malamocco, the

principal entrances from the sea to the lagoon, for a
length of four miles, where the effects of the sea are

greatest.

Malamocco is the principal entrance for large vessels,

and the channel from thence to Venice has been deep

ened, chiefly by dredging, to the extent of 24 feet at

low water. Lido, which is the next chief entrance
and the nearest to Venice, being about l \ mile distant
from  it,  serves for the general class of merchant
             it
                   is
                    it
                         is
vessels. The other entrances of Foggia, Tre Porte,

and the Piave, are seldom used except for fishing

vessels, and       not necessary to do more to these than

to keep them in their present state, that to preventit it is,
                             an object of importance to allow
deterioration, as                                       is

the great mass of water by which the lagoon chiefly
preserved to pass in and out of the main entrances,

Malamocco and Lido. Upon the whole appears to

me that this latter plan     the wisest that could be
it if

                      is
                                  is

                                              a

                            is, isI
adopted, and the result has proved that has been

so far successful, although attended with considerable
expense. It
                   in fact choice of two evils, and the
least has been chosen. It
                                                 believe, admitted that

the port of Venice now capable of receiving as large,

not larger, vessels than she ever received before for
                                                 a
should be recollected that in the most flourishing times
                                                             ;
of Venice there were no ships drawing 23 or 24 feet,

and vessels of this size can now enter and depart at all

times. Hence Venice has been converted into port fit
44 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

for modern requirements; but it must always be borne
in mind that so strong are the natural obstacles against
its maintenance that nothing can preserve it in its
present condition but the most constant vigilance and
care. Fortunately the method of dredging by steam
has been introduced, and this may be done to any
extent, at a comparatively moderate cost, but it can
only be compensated for when there is a sufficient
amount of trade to pay for it. Still, in whatever way
we may consider the question, it must be admitted that
the port of Venice has been preserved in a most ex
traordinary manner during so many centuries, not
withstanding the natural obstacles against it ; and
now that it has been connected with the kingdom of
Italy, there is no further drawback to its full develop
ment, and it only requires self-reliance and energy to

render it what it once was, one, if not the most impor

tant, of the commercial cities of Italy.

   At Bologna we had the pleasure of making the ac

quaintance of the celebrated linguist Mezzofanti, whose
modest and simple manner, accompanied by his extraor
dinary acquirements, quite enchanted us. The singular
fact is that at the time of our meeting him he had
never been out of the province of Bologna, and yet he
had acquired the knowledge of twenty-four languages,
and, as far as our limited acquaintance went, he spoke
the English, German, French, Greek and Latin tongues

perfectly ; and those conversant with the Oriental lan
guages informed us that he spoke them equally well.
He appeared to be completely absorbed in languages,
and was scarcely acquainted with any other branches
 of knowledge ; still his wonderful mastery of this branch
of study was a great acquirement, and must have
 required vast powers of memory as well as indefatigable

 study.
    From thence we passed through Ravenna to Ancona,

 the position of which is good, occupying as it does a
ANCONA.  45

salient point of the coast. The water is deep and there
is a commanding height for a citadel. The Roman
emperors resolved to take advantage of the situation,
and built a town here, the place being well adapted for

a seaport. They accordingly made a mole on the south
side to protect the harbour against the most dangerous
winds, namely, those blowing from the south ; they
commenced the work from the shore by throwing down
large blocks of rough stone, which were obtained from
the rocks in the vicinity, in order to form a base for
the superstructure; these blocks of stone were de
posited promiscuously in the sea and left to the action
of the waves, which in a comparatively short time
consolidated them until they formed a mass that at

length became immovable, always adding more stone

as required until the whole became solid ; this foun
dation was carried up to the level of low-water mark.

They then commenced the superstructure of masonry
of squared stone and brickwork cemented together
by pozzolana or hydraulic mortar, which was best

adapted to make the work permanent. The inside or
quay wall was formed by first placing a close framework
of timber in front and at the angle or slope at which the

quay wall was to be formed. They then threw down a

mass of pozzolano, lime, and small rubble stone, mixed

together, between the wooden frames and the rubble

stone which had been previously deposited to form the
base of the mole. This in a comparatively short time
become solid, as the mixture of pozzolano, lime, and stone
possesses the quality of setting under water. When it

had become sufficiently solid, the timber frame was re

moved and transferred to another section to form a con

tinuation of the quay wall, and thus the whole line of
inner quay wall which formed the roadway was made
by backing the quay wall to its full height with rubble,
and a parapet of masonry was erected on the outside ;
this superstructure, although rough, stood very well
4ti AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

with occasional repairs. In this manner the mole was

carried out to a great extent. A fine triumphal arch

was erected at the end to commemorate the completion

of the work.

   It is singular that the same emperor should have

constructed a like work in a similar situation and in

the same manner at Civita Vecchia, on the opposite
coast of Italy, after every attempt had been made to

establish a port by his predecessors at Ostia, which

was built at extraordinary expense, and has been filled

up by the alluvial matter brought down by the Tiber
and from the sea by the littoral currents, so that it is

now three miles from the sea.

The principle of construction used in these works

resembles a good deal the mode adopted by the

Phoenicians at Tyre, and subsequently by the Cartha

ginians at Carthage, and by the moderns. The Romans

                a
                                  a

                                                              is,
also employed the hollow mole, that                                   a mole con

structed with arches, by means of which the current

charged with alluvial matter was enabled to pass through
the mole, and thus any deposit within or without the

mole was to great extent prevented. The harbour
of Civita Vecchia remains serviceable at the present day
for vessels drawing 20 feet of water, although, as may

be naturally expected, certain deposit has taken place

during the lapse of so many centuries which requires to

be dredged out occasionally. At Ancona only one pier

was built on the south side, and consequently an eddy
and stagnation took place on the north side, as the lit

toral current runs from south to north, and therefore

there  tendency to deposit on the north side. The
is
         is

               a
                             a

                                                      ;

                                         a
                                                                   a
French when masters of Italy commenced another mole

on the north side, thus enclosing considerable space
of sea so as to form close harbour, which no doubt

of great service still, from the nature of the local

circumstances,  certain deposit may always be ex

pected. This, however, can be removed by dredging,
ROME.                        47

and the harbour may always be preserved in a state of

efficiency if the extent of trade will warrant the expen

diture necessary for the purpose.

  IOn reaching Rome, it is difficult to express the

emotions felt on a first sight of the Holy City, sur

rounded by the desolate Campagna, the Tiber rolling
in front, the Castle of St. Angelo, and the numerous

towers of churches rising out of the mass of houses,

crowned by the gorgeous dome of St. Peter's elevated

in proud majesty above the whole, backed by the mag
nificent views of the ancient city, once the mistress of

Ithe world.                  may say, most thrilling,
   This most interesting,
Isight lay before me in all its solemn majesty. When

   considered that it rose from a few insignificant

shepherds' hovels to imperial splendour, then became the

Iprey of the barbarian hordes of the north, and lastly,

the throne of the Catholic Christian world, was awed

by the wonderful decrees of Providence, and at the in

I I Istability of all human grandeur. lay restless all night ;
   could scarcely realize the fact that was actually
in this wonderful, all-absorbing city, to visit which

from my childhood had been one of the greatest objects

of my ambition. It would be vain to attempt to
describe in detail its numerous splendid buildings, both

Iancient and modern, its museums, and its countless
treasures of priceless art.  will merely remark that

there is no city in the world more worthy of a visit

than Rome, or where greater gratification and instruc

tion can be derived; for example, the aqueducts and

the Cloaca Maxima show how thoroughly the Romans

understood the importance of sewerage and good water

for the preservation of human life, an importance that

is only now beginning to be recognized in England,

while there still remains very much to be accom

plished.

   My friend Colonel Aitchison was obliged to hasten
48 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

his departure. I then took lodgings in the Piazza de

Spagna, and devoted myself to the study of the Italian

language, architecture, and drawing, and in my leisure

moments entered into society ; and fortunately at that

time there were assembled there some of the most dis

tinguished characters in science, literature, and art,

besides diplomatists and leaders of fashion, from the

various capitals of Europe. Amongst the first may be

mentioned the celebrated chemist and philosopher, Sir

Humphry     Davy,   and his talented wife, under  whose
hospitable          passed many happy days, and   at the
            roof I
same time received much valuable instruction. I made

acquaintance with the Marchese Martinette, the scien

tific engineer, who at that time devised the extensive

hydraulic works for the improvement of the rivers

Iand drainage of the marsh-land districts of Bologna

and Ferrara, from whom derived much informa
Ition.
        also met the well-known antiquary, Sir W.

Gell, who to his interesting memoir of Greece after

Iwards added much towards explaining the antiqui
ties of Rome, and in his agreeable society        spent

many a pleasant day. Dodwell too had just returned

Ifrom Greece ; and made the acquaintance of that

Iprince of sculptors, Canova, to whom my father had
given me a letter of introduction.  frequently went

to his studio, where he always received me with the

greatest kindness. He was then at work on the model

of his famous dying Madeleine, which struck me as a

masterpiece of elegance and beauty, combined with the

resignation and piety which so pre-eminently distin

guishes it as a beautiful specimen of art. Nobody could

be more kind, amiable, and modest in his manner than

that distinguished sculptor. Flattered by emperors,

kings, and the great and cultivated of every land, he

never for a moment forgot himself or appeared to be

elated, or to be put out of his ordinary simple, unob

trusive manner; whilst to his brother artists he was
THOBWALDSEN.  49

equally kind and familiar ; to his inferiors he was
always gentle and considerate, giving his humbler

fellow-workers every encouragement and advice, cheer
ing them on their way, and not unfrequently assisting
them with his purse when their necessities required
it. He was devoted to his art, of which he was so
eminent a professor, and with it combined all those

amiable and charitable feelings which rendered him an
universal favourite and a benefactor to mankind.

  I made acquaintance also with the great Dane, Thor-

waldsen, who frequently admitted me to his studio.
He was totally different from Canova. His square,
massive head, covered with a redundance of flowing
locks ; his finely-developed countenance, beaming with
talent and firmness of purpose ; his colossal and well-

proportioned figure, and erect and commanding gait,
all combined to raise in the mind of the spectator a
degree of respect and admiration not usually to be met
with. Yet with all this apparent sternness there was
combined a happy mixture of gentleness, genial socia

bility, and good-nature, which, after a little acquaint
ance, soon made you feel at home with him ; and the
more you knew him the more you liked him. He was
then at work upon the colossal figures of the Twelve

Apostles, for the church at Copenhagen, a commission

given to him by the King. Several of these were
finished, and magnificent specimens of art they were.

I have since seen them in their places, and have looked

at them with increased admiration. His Triumph of

Alexander had just then been completed, and a finer

specimen of bas-relief it is impossible to see. It is

singular that with all this nobleness of character, and
being withal a perfect master in his art, this great man
-- for certainly he was so in his sphere -- should have
looked upon Canova as his rival, and disliked him
with a dislike almost amounting to hatred, whereas

                                                                                           E
50 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENN1E.

the gentle Canova had no such feeling towards Thor-

waldsen.

   Their styles, moreover, were so totally different from
each other, that there could be no reason for jealousy
between them. Canova excelled in the female form,

where nothing but elegance, gentleness, and grace are
required, although he by no means failed in the male
figure; whereas Thorwaldsen excelled in that of the male,

where force, manliness, and dignity are mainly requisite.
Both were at the head of their profession in their

respective styles, and both have left behind them
numerous masterpieces of art, which have never been

surpassed in ancient or modern times.

   In addition to these celebrities, there were Lawrence,

Chantrey, and  ITurner, all engaged in their respective
walks of art.
               These had known in England, and
I received much kindness and instruction from them,
and enjoyed the greatest pleasure in their delightful

society.

Numerous great houses were at that time open for

Ithe reception of all the celebrities of Roman and foreign

society, to which had access. Amongst many others
may be mentioned those of the beautiful Princess Bor-
ghese, the Duchess of Devonshire, and Lord William

Bentinck. At the house of the Duchess of Devonshire

I was introduced to the polished courtier and priest,
Cardinal Gonsalvi, at that time Minister of Foreign

Affairs to the Pope, whose graceful manners and

Ielegant language, combined with a vast fund of infor
mation, enchanted everybody.  also met Thomas

Moore, who enraptured the whole audience by singing
his fresh melodies, with a degree of pathos, taste, and

feeling which was peculiarly his own. Neither must

I forget Lady Morgan, whose lively and constant

prattle afforded much amusement, not altogether desti
tute of information.

   At the hospitable house of Lord and Lady William
PONTINE MARSHES.  51

Bentinck I saw the elite of English society, where I was

frequently a welcome guest. Amongst others, appeared
the beautiful Miss Canning, afterwards the Marchioness

Clanricarde, and the silent, amiable, and unfortunate
Lord William Russell, who afterwards fell a victim to
his servant, the assassin Courvoisier.

  ITo enumerate all the agreeable and talented persons

of whom had the honour of making the acquaintance
at Rome would be foreign to my purpose, and out of

Iplace here. Suffice it to say, that the winter of 1819,

which passed at Rome, was one of the most agreeable
and instructive of my life, and will ever be remembered
by me with the most lively feelings of satisfaction.

Before leaving I had the honour of being presented to

the benevolent Pius VII., and was much captivated

Iwith his kind and unostentatious reception. After

witnessing the Church ceremonies of Christmas, left

Rome just before the Carnival. I passed through

Castel Candolfo, and afterwards came upon the Pontine

Marshes.

   The Pontine Marshes consist of a low tract of land,
extending from the elevated ridge of Castel Gandolfo
to a spur of the Apennines, which approach the Medi
terranean near Velletri, being a length of about 20

miles, whilst on the east they are bordered by the

Apennines, from whence numerous streams and torrents
descend into the marshes ; and on the west, or sea side,

they are bounded by a line of sandbanks, or dunes,
thrown up by the waves and storms from the west ; so
that they form, as it were, a basin into which all the

waters flow, without a natural outfall through which

they can escape. To attempt to make a direct outfall
to the sea was perfectly practicable, but there was
no rise of tide, so that though the outfall would be
considerably improved, there would yet remain the
difficulty of keeping it open, in consequence of the con

stant influx of the sand. In similar, and indeed in all

                                                                                      e2
52 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNTE.

cases of this class, there are two points to be considered,
namely, the water which comes from the highlands, and
that which falls directly upon the lowlands. Now the
former, coming from a higher level, and necessarily
having greater velocity, will naturally descend to the
lowest level, which is the marshes, and will force its

way to the outfall before the lowland water ; so that
until the highland water is discharged, the lowland
water, having less inclination, cannot escape, and as
the outfall was extremely deficient, neither the highland
nor lowland water could be discharged, and both com
bined accumulated upon the lowlands and flooded them.

It therefore was evident that so long as this state of

things remained it was impossible for the lowlands to
be properly drained, as the outfall was deficient for the
discharge of both waters when combined.

   The only feasible mode of attaining the desired
object was to separate them ; then, at least, the low
lands could not be incommoded by the highland water,
and would only have to discharge its own drainage.

Thus, if a catch-water drain had been made along the

base of the highlands, all that water might be dis
charged into the sea at any level required, for there is

ample fall or inclination ; and if another and separate

outfall had been made for the discharge of the water
falling upon the lowlands, although with much less fall,
it might have been discharged, at least, to a great

degree, if well embanked and of a proper size, because

it would have been unobstructed by the highland
water. But even supposing that any portion of the
lowlands had been below the level of the outfall, this

defect could easily have been remedied by pumping
machines, worked either by wind, animal, or steam
power, connected with main and subsidiary drains
of proper capacity. This plan, which has been so
effectively exemplified in the drainage of the great level
of the Fens and elsewhere, was not adopted, but the
TERRACINA.                                        53

whole of the waters, highland as well as lowland, were
thrown into one drain and outfall, and thus before

the highland water could be discharged, the lowland
water stagnated upon the land. Until Mr. Rennie's

system is adopted, there never will be a perfect drain

age ; and the more imperfect the outfall, the greater is

the necessity for adopting his system.

   At Terracina we were terrified with the account of

the brigands whom we should have to encounter in

Icrossing the spur of the Apennines before we entered
the kingdom of Naples.       here examined the old

Roman port, consisting of two artificial piers of stone

carried out from the shore, with the entrance pointing

west. Both piers are long, and are well constructed of
solid masonry, with a parapet and roadway; there being

large mooring stones, with holes through their extremi

ties, fixed solidly into the inner or quay walls of each

pier. Upon the whole this is a substantial work, al

though, as the piers are curved, they are badly adapted

for breaking the waves on the outside, and for pre

serving tranquillity within the harbour. The whole

space within and without the piers was filled up with

sand to within two feet of the quay walls. It is a

common error, even at the present day, to make curved

Ipiers ; the consequence that when the waves strike
                                         is,

                                Ia
                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                   ;
them they accumulate as they move forward, until at
length they break with increased force and carry all

before them. The same takes place with the waves
entering the harbour, which produce such degree of
agitation within that vessels cannot lie in safety

whereas by making the piers in several straight arms

the waves strike them on the outside, and they are

broken, and neutralize each other at the angles.

reached Naples through road closely patrolled
by soldiers, with blockhouses for ten or twelve men

at very short intervals. Being bound for Greece,

my time was very short, yet  managed to ascend
54 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN REN NIB.

Vesuvius and visit Herculaneum with Lord Guild
ford, as well as the Museo Borbonico as often as

Ipossible.      the modern  harbour of Naples, and             I doubt
      examined
if anything could be more badly designed. There are
two small piers, the entrance between which is difficult ;
it is exposed to the prevalent and dangerous winds,
and is scarcely safe inside. This is the more extra
ordinary, because the numerous remains of the ancient

harbours of the Romans, dispersed throughout the bay,

might have served as models for a port adapted for all
the requirements of modern trade as well as for war

vessels. The harbour must be improved before Naples

can be provided with that accommodation which her

Iincreasing trade imperatively requires.
       started from Naples with several others on the
31st January, 1820, and after an alarm from a
threatened attack by brigands on the summit of the

pass of Baveno, from which we were rescued by the
timely arrival of the Receiver-General of the province,

on bis official journey, accompanied by a numerous
escort of dragoons. We reached Lecce, the capital of
the province, on the evening of the 8th February,
having been eleven days on the journey, a distance of
about 300 miles, rather fatigued, but much pleased with

this novel and interesting country, so seldom visited by

travellers. I alighted at the best hotel in the place,
which was but very indifferent, and the next day
called upon General Church, the Governor of the
province, and was most kindly received by him, he

Iinsisting upon my making his house my home. Here
aangdainChmeevtalwieirthBrLoonrsdtedG,uiwldiftohrdw, hLoomrdI  William Russell,
                                                                 had previously

made acquaintance at Rome. Lord Guildford was
on his way to the Ionian Islands on official business,
and Sir Thomas Maitland, the Governor, had ordered a
vessel to be sent to Brindisi to convey his Lordship, who
GENERAL CHURCH.  55

very civilly offered me and our two mutual friends a
passage. As the vessel was not expected for several
days, we in the meantime became the guests of General

Church, and were most hospitably entertained by him.
General Church was an extraordinary man. He was
below the middle size, about the age of five-and-forty,
extremely well built, spare, sinewy, and active, with a

well-proportioned head, sharp piercing eyes, rather

aquiline nose, and a closely-compressed mouth, denoting
great firmness and resolution. He commanded a regi
ment of Albanians and Greeks, as an auxiliary corps
in the British employment, during the great war, and
in that position assisted the operations of the British
cruisers on the coast of Italy ; and hence he became sub
sequently attached to the army of Lord William Bentinck,
after his conquest of Sicily. Church was a proficient in

the Greek, Italian, and French languages, and, having
considerable military talent, and being a great disci

plinarian, soon brought the rough and savage elements
of which his corps was composed into tolerable order, and
rendered them of considerable service in the wild warfare

in which they were engaged. At the conclusion of the

war he retired on half pay to Naples, where, being well
known to the Government, he was made Governor of

the province of Otranto, at that time overrun with
brigands. Church was appointed to the command with

unlimited control, and by his vigorous and energetic

conduct soon spread terror and dismay amongst them ;

he was here, there, and everywhere ; when they least

expected, he came upon them suddenly, dispersed them,

and destroyed the leaders without mercy. He had
many narrow escapes himself from sharing the same
fate. Once it is related that he and his aide-de-camp,
Captain Kusini, entered unknowingly a small town,
of which one of the most able and daring brigand
chiefs, with a powerful band of followers, was in pos

session. Church, when he found this, determined to
56 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Imake the best of being perfectly aware of his
       I it,
danger. He entered the chief inn and sent for the

landlord, who recognized him at once, and asked him                                                                                  ; if

ahpecetruktunarlelbywaibntlhetahcteotohtlnoeewsbnsr.,ig"a"nadYmescc,h"oiemrfeepaenlxidepdrehsCisshlyuforctlloho,wmewereistthhwieimmre

tell him that want to see him immediately." The

brigand chief accordingly came, astonished to see the

General, whom he least expected he began to be
                  ;

alarmed, thinking he was surrounded. The General,

addressing the brigand by name, informed him that
there was no chance of his escape, but that he and
                     if

his followers would surrender, he would pardon them

and get them employed in the King's army. The

brigand chief and his men declined this generous offer.

Church then told him that he was sorry, for their own

sakes, as in future they could expect no mercy. The

brigand and his followers then withdrew, determined

on their side to show no quarter to the troops
                     ;                             ever

                           if
they should get them within their power but for the
moment, being ignorant of Church's position, they were

afraid to attack him, little supposing that he was at

that time theirs. This extraordinary interview having

terminated, Church felt that he had played the game far

enough, and the sooner he and his aide-de-camp made

their escape the better. The landlord, fortunately for

them, kept the secret. The General and his aide-de

camp escaped by the back of the house, climbed over

some fences, reached their horses, and then galloped off,
never pulling bridle until they had reached their own

followers, who, when they heard what had passed,

were astonished at their escape, which was due alone

to the coolness and courage of the General. Scarcely

had Church and his aide-de-camp departed when the

brigand and his followers learned how completely they

had been deceived, and at once set off in pursuit but
                                                ;

they were soon obliged to retreat, being themselves
BRINDISI.                                                                              57

pursued by a superior force, from which they narrowly

escaped capture ; the band was afterwards destroyed.
This is but one out of the numerous instances of Church's
extraordinary adventures. In a short time he extir

pated brigandism, the province regained its tranquillity,

and the people pursued their several employments in

peace without fear of molestation, blessing the General

who had relieved them from their oppressors.

IBeing particularly desirous of seeing Brindisi, from
dmryagroeocnolslefcrtoiomnsGeonfeHraolraCcheu, rcho,bftoarin, esdaidanhee,sc"oYrtoouf   two
                                                                                       may
meet some unwelcome visitors on the way ; but if they
see the uniform of my dragoons they will not
you with their acquaintance." Brindisi, which  trouble

                                               I need

not now describe, struck me as being an excellent port

on the whole, and now that it is made the terminus of

the railway from Naples, which connects it with the
entire railway system of Europe, it will no doubt
Ibecome a place of considerable importance.

      embarked with Lord and Lady Guildford and others

in a Government vessel, and reached Corfu on the

27th February. The day was fine, and we were much

struck with the beauty of the surrounding sea and

mountains, together with the view of the magnificent
inlet forming the harbour of Corfu, comprising as it

did the ancient and picturesque town on the bold out

line of St. Salvador and the rich undulating fields.
IAs this was the first time
                                had seen anything of
IGreece, particularly remarked the handsome appear

ance of the population and their picturesque costume.
                                  of notice    in the town
    There was nothing worthy
except the old fortifications,  so that I    determined to

make my stay as short as possible and take the first

conveyance for Zante, and from thence to the main

land of Greece. Corfu, having been under so many
different governments, partook in some measure of the
character of all--Turkish, Venetian, Russian, French,
58 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

English, but the ruling feature was Greek and Alba

nian. Our Government, urged on by that amiable,

excellent, and enthusiastic person, the late Lord Guild

ford, had determined to establish an university at Zante,

to revive classical learning, and Lord Guildford was

appointed Lord Rector. He was an excellent scholar

and linguist, and a most good-natured person ; he was

anything but a man of the world, and little acquainted
with the real character of the modern Greeks. Sir

Thomas Maitland, the Lord Chief Commissioner and

Governor of the islands, was a totally different cha

racter, and knew the Greeks well. He was a stern, un

compromising soldier, with great talent, courage, and

firmness, joined to long experience in war, politics, and
governing mankind in every part of the world ; he was

not to be deceived by plausible appearances ; to use his

his own phrase, he would stand no humbug, and would

make his commands obeyed, although he was a strict
administrator of justice. He
plan with great ridicule.     treated  Lord  Guildford's
                                             clever and
                              " They   were

learned enough, but they had already a great deal to

unlearn ; the first thing was to make them honest and

obedient to the law." When Sir Thomas became Lord

Chief Commissioner of the Ionian Islands, the popula

tion was in a most disorganized state ; pillage, murder,

and piracy, were very common, and the malefactors

were triumphant, and defied the law. It therefore

required a strong hand to keep them in order, and
Sir Thomas was just the man to do it -- which he did.

Under his strict but just rule they soon became more

manageable, as they found he would not be trifled with.

  On the day after my arrival I left my card at the

Ipalace, and received an invitation to dine with him
on the 2nd March.  had taken no letter of introduc
tion to him, although he knew my father ; but I had

previously heard that he disliked nothing so much

as letters of introduction, and seldom paid them any
                     SIR T. MAITLAND.                              59

Irespect, even when coming from the highest quar
ters.      accordingly made my appearance at the palace

punctually at the time appointed, and soon after a bril

liant assemblage was collected, in full costume, all

waiting for the Governor. He shortly after appeared
in full uniform, covered with orders. He was a

rather fine-looking man, about sixty-five, of the middle

size, with a strong, square, well-built, well-propor
tioned, figure. His countenance and speech betrayed

his Scotch origin ; and his large bluish-grey eyes

shaded by shaggy eyebrows, his well developed nose,

and compressed mouth, evinced a decided strength of

will. His speech was terse and blunt, but with a

strange mixture of kindness and severity, and alto

gether he was evidently made to command and be
Irespected. kept in the background, but he came up to
Ime, and in his dry Scotch manner said,
Iare Mr.                                             suppose you

you to                             sir,              what brought
           Rennie ; and  ?p"ray,"  To    may    ask  antiquities of
           this country                  study  the

ancient Greece." He at once replied, with a certain

degree of vehemence, "A pack of nonsense ; gang awa'

back to your worthy father in England, he will teach
you more in two days than ye will learn here in all your

life."  "  Then,  I  shaking me very     cordially  by the hand,   he
said,      But        am very glad to     see you,                 do
                                                     and if I can
anything for you I shall be very happy, for your gude

father's sake." Dinner was then announced, and a

capital dinner we had, Sir Thomas making himself very

agreeable, and cracking his Scotch jokes right and left

with a great deal of glee. I sat nearly at the bottom of

the table, and immediately opposite to me was Colonel

Napier, afterwards the celebrated Sir Charles Napier of

Scinde. I was much struck with his countenance ; his

keen piercing eyes, his prominent aquiline nose, and

his restless, quivering lips, marked him out as a
Iman of great character.           said to myself, if oppor

tunity oilers, that man will much distinguish himself
60 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Ihereafter, and time has shown that was not mis

taken. Sir Thomas is reported to have said, "Napier

is a great Radical, and a friend to liberty and equality ;

Ihe has considerable talents, and will give him an
Iopportunity of showing himself, and will wager that

before six months are over there will be a petition
to the House of Commons against him for tyranny and

oppression of the people." Sir Thomas was a true pro
phet ; he made Colonel Napier Governor of the island

of Cephalonia ; a most troublesome set he had to deal

with, and he was obliged to use harsh measures to bring

them under control ; true enough a petition was got
up by the inhabitants of the island complaining of

him for his severity and cruelty, and requesting the

Government to remove him from his command. When

Sir Thomas     heard  of   tIhitselhleyloauugshoe?d  heartily, and  said,
to his staff,  " Did  not                            the Radicals,  how

ever much they may preach about liberty and equality,

are always the greatest tyrants." Sir Thomas was held

in high respect at head-quarters, and whenever he

went to England and asked for instructions at the

Colonial Office, was told to write them for himself, as

the Government had entire confidence in him.

  I here made the acquaintance of Captain Smyth, of

the Navy, and his amiable and accomplished wife.

Captain Smyth was then employed in making a survey
of the Ionian Islands for the British Government, which

was afterwards published ; and certainly for elaborate

ness of detail and completeness of execution it has

seldom been surpassed. Every plate is ornamented
with a view of the architectural remains of the most

remarkable buildings in the district, and also views of

the coast, which were drawn by Mrs. Smyth with great

taste, beauty, and fidelity, and form an important feature

in this great work. Captain (afterwards Admiral)
Smyth was a man of considerable scientific acquire

ments ; and after having been most actively employed
ADMIRAL SMYTH.                          61

in different parts of the world (always with distinction),

he retired to Bedford, where he erected an observatory,

and published his celebrated astronomical observations,
which, in addition to his public service, entitle him to

a high place among literary, scientific, and professional
men. He was of a most amiable and jovial disposition,

ever ready for fun and amusement whenever they did

not interfere with his duties ; he was, moreover, always

ready to serve a friend, and was universally beloved
and respected by his numerous acquaintance. For my

Iself, regarded him as a valuable and sincere friend,
Iwhose loss afterwards most deeply regretted.

Count Lunzi, one of the Greek nobles, a most agree

able and talented young man, and a large proprietor on

Ithe island, who had travelled with us, invited me to his

country house, and set off with my friend the Cheva

lier Bronsted to pay him a visit on the following day,
the 10th February. We started on horseback on a fine

day, and after riding through a rich, level plain for

about ten miles, we reached the volcanic pitch- wells,

and on our return found Count Lunzi awaiting our
arrival at his Villa Sarachina. He received us most

cordially, and conducted us into the house, and we

were introduced to his family, by whom we were most

hospitably entertained. We then took a kind farewell

of our host at 5 p.m., mounted our horses, and pro

ceeded homewards. At first we rode along leisurely,

and gradually quickened our pace ; at last we got into
a full gallop. My horse, which was little better than a

pony, although a very handsome, strong, well-made

animal, by this time became so excited that he fairly
Igot the better of me, and proceeded at a furious rate, so

that lost all control over him. Away he went helter-
skelter over land and water, driving all before him. In

Ivain attempted to stop him. At last, finding it use
Iless, let him have his way ; and arriving at the bay
Iof Zante, he made direct for the sea.
                                        allowed him to
62 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

proceed until he began to swim ; then, finding he was
in no  disposition to return, I
                                 dismounted,           and partly
swam,   partly waded ashore,                         awaited his
                                 where I

Ireturn ; he soon got tired of swimming, and came to

land. then caught him, and mounted, and returned

to Zante. My friend Bronsted, who was completely dis

Itanced, joined me as remounted, and we rode back
Itogether. As we entered the town saw a number of
Isoldiers looking on and laughing ; did not know why.
But it appeared that this pony was noted through

out the place for his tricks, and they wondered how,
                                                     I certainly
after venturing   upon    hIishabdackkno(wwnhichhis
should not have                                      vicious cha
                 done if
I Iracter), had come back safe and sound. However,
had punished him pretty well, and he became quieter

Iafterwards. We had a hearty laugh at the adventure ;

and, being thoroughly drenched to the skin, changed
my clothes, and joined Sir Patrick Ross's dinner-party,

when again everybody laughed at me, and congratu

Ilated me upon my happy escape.
   Before quitting this subject cannot help saying a

few words about my friend Bronsted, the Dane. He

was a most excellent person, and a first-rate scholar

and antiquary, well known for his researches. He had

acquired some most valuable bronzes, being portions of

helmets found at Cortona, of which he published an

elaborate account. The figures and other ornaments
are most elaborate in design and execution ; in fact,
they are masterpieces of art, and were afterwards

Ibought by the British Museum (for a considerable sum),

where, believe, they still remain.

  I made several other excursions to various parts of

the island ; amongst others, to the top of the moun

tain which forms the south-west promontory of the

bay. The summit rises far above the Mediterranean,
and the view from it is magnificent, commanding

the whole of the beautiful island, which lies at its base
                   ZANTE.     63

like a rich garden, and some other islands and adjacent

coasts.

The inhabitants are a good-looking, active, and

industrious race, but, like their neighbours, inclined to

be very turbulent, and require to be kept in order by
the strong arm of the law.

   While here, just at the equinox, we had, as usual,

Isome very severe storms ; and one night was roused

from my sleep with a violent shaking of the bed, which

lasted several seconds. It was at the same time raining

Itremendously, and blowing very hard, accompanied by

violent thunder and lightning. jumped out of bed,

Inot knowing what it was ; the house trembled, and

thought it was coming down. The other inmates were

Ialso alarmed. After waiting anxiously for some time
the storm abated.  went to bed again, and slept

soundly until morning, and then inquired of the land

lord the cause, when he informed me that it was the

shock of an earthquake, which they frequently felt in

the island ; and on the following day we learned that

the same earthquake had been most severely felt at the

neighbouring island of Santa Maura, that many houses

had been thrown down, and a number of the unfortu
Inate inhabitants destroyed.
                              had frequently been

told by persons who had lived in volcanic countries of

the extraordinary sensation produced by earthquakes

Ion the human frame, but until I had experienced it

never could appreciate its effects ; certainly they are

most remarkable ; the whole nervous system is con

vulsed, and one fancies that the last hour has arrived,

so that it takes some time before the system recovers its
Iusual tone.
              certainly should not wish to experience

another shock, and was extremely happy to have

escaped with nothing more than a shaking and a severe

fright.

Having now spent fourteen days very agreeably,

being most kindly entertained by the Governor,
64 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

ISir Patrick Ross, the officers of the 75th, and others,
and having seen enough of Zante,     was anxious to

Iproceed on my journey, only waiting for a vessel to
take me to Greece, when fortunately  heard that

an English mercantile brig, commanded by Captain

IBurgess, a rough old Scotchman, was about to sail for

Patras, so at once took my leave of Sir Patrick

Ross, his family, and all my other kind friends, packed

up my baggage, embarked at 3 p.m. on the 23rd March,

and bade adieu to Zante. After a pleasant passage,

but rough accommodation, we arrived at the entrance
to the Gulf of Corinth, and anchored in the road
Istead about a mile from the shore.
                                     paid my passage,

landed, proceeded up to the town, called upon Mr.

Green, the Consul, and soon found tolerably comfort
able quarters in a Greek house, but the beds were

I Isadly infested with bugs, which annoyed me much.
Before leaving Zante,  ought to say that here

engaged a Greek, who had been well recommended to

me. His name was Demetrius Papandriopolo. He was

about thirty-five, of the middle size, sharp, active,

sober, intelligent, and honest, and served me faithfully
through the greater part of my journey, for above
Itwelve months, until returned to Malta on my way
Iback to England.
                   found him a most valuable servant,

and he rendered me the most essential services.

Patras was then a trading town of some importance,
in fact, the principal one in the Morea, and it con
tained a considerable number of inhabitants, almost

wholly Greeks, without including the Turkish gar

rison. It is situated on a hill about a quarter of a

mile from the gulf of the same name, where there is

a small rubble jetty for boats to land their goods, &c.

The roadstead outside is safe and well protected. The

town is surrounded by a rich, fertile plain, well culti

vated with olives, vines, and currants. The entrance
PATRAS.                                 05

to the Gulf of Corinth is protected by two old castles, the
distance between them being about a mile and a half;

and three miles east is the modern town of Lepanto (it
was formerly the ancient Naupactus), celebrated for the
victory over the Turks by John of Austria ; it contains

2000 souls ; the surrounding views are very fine. The
town was under the command of a Turkish Governor,

and is situated upon the side of a hill rising to

the east, encompassed by a rude wall and ditch, and

crowned at the summit by a citadel, in which the

Governor and the garrison resided. Besides the citadel

there were no remarkable buildings of any kind : the

streets were narrow and dirty. There were a few

mosques interspersed here and there, whose graceful

minarets, rising above the mass, gave the place a

most picturesque appearance. The town contained

numerous bazaars, where all the trade of the place

was carried on, and the neighbourhood of the main

street was filled with cafe's, crowded with Greeks,

Turks, Ionians, French, English, and various other

nations, all smoking their long pipes, drinking coffee,
sherbet, and various other liquors, apparently in great

comfort. The Turk, as lord supreme, moved leisurely

about with the most solemn dignity, having the

greatest contempt for his neighbours, and every now

and then, as a Christian passed by, he greeted him

with a lofty scowl, as if he considered him unworthy

Iof notice, uttering the simple word Giaour ! and
passed on without further ceremony.  frequently

wandered amongst the bazaars, then to me a per

fectly novel sight, and was much amused with the
gravity and solemn dignity with which the Turks

sat cross-legged behind their counters; if you asked

for any of their wares, they quietly, with a mono
syllable, ordered their assistant to show it to you, as

if they considered it a favour. This was so different

Ito what had been accustomed to in the civil, well-

                                     P
66 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

bred shopkeepers    in Europe, that I   could not help
laughing outright,  which I soon found   would not do,

as it gave great offence.
  IOne morning, whilst walking along the shore in

front of the roadstead, whom should stumble upon

but my old friend Captain Smyth, who had come to
Patras on a surveying expedition in one of the small

auxiliary boats attached to his larger vessel, which lay
at anchor in the roadstead. This auxiliary boat,

although small, was fitted up with every convenience

for the purpose, and adapted to enter shoal water, in

order to complete the details of the survey. In this

he was accompanied by one or two assistants, and a

few men to worka    so that he could be absent from

              I

                      it,

                                                    a

                                     I
his ship for several days without inconvenience. Cap

tain Smyth was delighted to see me, and asked me to

dine with him on board his boat, and agreed to, with

great pleasure.     accordingly went there at the time

appointed, and amongst the guests met Captain Hunter

and his wife, and our worthy Consul (Mr. Green).
We had  most cordial welcome and an excellent

dinner, and afterwards passed delightful evening.

Towards sunset we adjourned to the beach in order to

take ices, which we got from the town, and enjoy our

selves by smoking our cigars. Whilst we were thus

happily seated, laughing and talking together, we were

surrounded by numerous Greeks from the town,

amongst whom were several Turkish soldiers, armed

to the teeth, and carrying their long pipes, which they

never abandoned for moment.       The jolly            old Captain
                                   fellows,"           and imme
said, " Now will astonish these
a

       I
                                a

                                                                                                                                !
diately dispatched one of his officers for his seven-bar

relled pistol, which was brought, and duly loaded. He
then told his interpreter to inform the Turks that this

was pistol which he could discharge as many times as

he liked without reloading. The   T"uIrnksShhaelldlahup"                                                                           their
hands in astonishment, exclaimed                                                                                                     and
                       PATRAS.                            r.7

with a scornful look at us, said such a thing was not

possible. Smyth, however, at once rose from his seat,

deliberately discharging his pistol one, two, three, four,

five, and six times, to the utter amazement of the

Turks, who could scarcely believe what they saw.
He then, with the utmost coolness, asked whether they

were convinced,    to  wShhicahllahth!e"y  all replied,   with the
                                           perfectly so.     Smyth
exclamation of   " In

then offered them coffee and ices, of which they readily
partook, and, after a hearty salutation and shaking of

hands, they returned to the town, saying what won
derful people these Ingleses are. This pistol resembled

the modern Colt revolver, although differing in some

particulars. Before leaving I visited the celebrated

cypress tree, three miles to westward. Its base is
about 40 feet in circumference, and it is 35 to 40

Ifeet high, the upper part having been blown off
during a gale.         also visited St. Andrea, where

were the remains of the well and some fragments of

Isculpture.

      took leave of my excellent and talented friend, the

Captain, and determined to start the next day, the 27th

Iof March. Upon returning to my quarters at Patras,

was informed that there was a French gentleman of the

name of Prevot, an artist, who was about proceeding to

IAthens to make a panoramic view of that city, and was

desirous of knowing whether would allow him to

accompany me. Finding him a very agreeable person,
and having been introduced by Mr. Green, and being

Iglad of a companion upon my lonely and novel journey,

  willingly consented to his joining me.

Having got all my baggage on board, attended by my

servant Demetrius, we started early on the following

morning, the 27th, at seven. The day was unfortunately
very rough, with violent gusts of wind, heavy rain,

accompanied by thunder and lightning ; notwithstanding

which we started on our journey, and when we got

                                           F2
68 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

into the gulf there was a heavy swell (which threat
ened at times to overwhelm the hoat and all in it),

with baffling winds, which materially retarded our

progress. We struggled on all day : at last our boat
men said that it was impossible to proceed farther ;
we therefore determined to run ashore, and finish

our journey the next day. We accordingly did so,
and landed in a small bay, the only safe one on

the south side, near Vostizza, at about four o'clock

in the afternoon, two hours before sunset. Then

came the question, where were we to sleep ? Vostizza
was about one or two miles distant, and there were

no means of transporting our baggage there; and
to leave it in the boat was to expose it to being

plundered, as the boatmen said they would not be
responsible for in consequence of the numerous bad

characters lurking about, pirates, robbers, &c. As
a
           it,

                                                      a

                                      I
there was no possibility of getting our things to Vos

tizza, and there were the remains of convent (which
had been ruined by an earthquake) close by on the
shore, on cliff about 50 feet above the gulf, pro

posed at once that we should place our things there,

and sleep, to which my companion, who was very
tired and sick of the voyage, readily consented. We

got the boatmen to land the things, and place them
in the convent; but when we got there, to our

great surprise and mortification, found that             was
                        it,
                                                       it

                                                                                             ;
uninhabited and half in ruins. There was no alterna

tive, however, as there was no other building near us

so we made the best of  and prepared to pass the

night there. We went upstairs, explored the ruined

building all over, and at length we discovered one
large room tolerably perfect, and capable of keeping
out the rain. This we chose for our night's quarters,
placed the baggage in order, and then commenced to

prepare our supper. Upon examining our provisions,

such as we had, we found them considerably damaged
               VOSTIZZA.                               C9

by the wet and unfit for use. I then decided that

Demetrius and myself should go to the bazaar of

Vostizza, and purchase what we could get, whilst we

left M. Prevot in charge in the convent ; and I gave

the boatmen some money on account to provide them

selves for the night where they could : the boat,

everything having been taken out, was firmly moored

to the shore.

Demetrius and myself went to Vostizza, and returned

to the convent just after dark, laden with a bag well
furnished with wine and provisions, the best we could

get, and immediately set about preparing our mattresses

for beds, and lighting a good fire to cook the supper.
Demetrius was a capital cook, and about nine o'clock

had got ready an excellent repast. Having had

scarcely anything all day, and being miserably wet and

cold, after having washed, and dressed in dry things,
with a roaring wood fire before us, we enjoyed our

supper excessively, forgot all discomforts, and about

eleven lay down upon our mattresses for the night.

Before doing this, warned by what our boatmen told us
of the insecurity of the place, we fastened the door of our

room as well as we could with an English padlock, and

placed our heavy baggage and the table against the

door, examined the priming of our pistols, which were
well loaded, and lay down to sleep. My mattress was

placed immediately opposite to the door, Demetrius
was in the other corner, and M. Prevot near the fire

place, with an understanding between us that if any

noise occurred during the night we were not to leave
our berths, for fear of mistaking each other for an

Ienemy. We slept tolerably sound until about two o'clock
in the morning, when I awoke and thought heard

the movement of footsteps on the landing outside
                                                       all night. I
our door. We had kept a      alnigdhtthbouurgnhint gI
listened again attentively,                            heard voices

outside, then something like a push against the door.
70 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

I awakened my companions, and told them to be ready
Iwith pistols, but not to fire until we were attacked, and
then if possible to keep our positions.  had scarcely

done this when a violent attack was made against the

door, which in a moment was burst in, the table,

portmanteaus, &c, being hurled into the middle of
the room ; this was immediately followed by a rush of
Iseveral armed men.
                         instantly fired into the midst
Iof them, Demetrius seconded me by another shot, and
repeated mine. We then heard a shriek as if some

body was wounded, and the whole of our assailants

Iprecipitately beat a retreat, scampering down the stairs
as rapidly as possible.  reloaded, and we jumped up,

rushed to the stair-head, and were going to follow them,
but upon second thoughts we considered it best to re

main where we were. We then secured the door again

and tried to sleep, but in vain ; we therefore lay watch

ing until daylight, when our boatmen called us, and we

prepared to depart, rejoicing heartily at our lucky escape

from being robbed and murdered, as we assuredly should

have been if we had not been armed and defended our

selves so stoutly. Before leaving, we examined the

landing and stairs, and discovered some traces of blood,

so that some one must have been wounded. Our boat

men told us that we had a very narrow escape ; they

said that they would not have slept there, and indeed

told us before that we had better not, as there were

numerous pirates and rascals in the vicinity, who way

laid all travellers, and seldom allowed them to escape

even with their lives.

Early in the morning, which was very fine after the

storm, we set sail with a fair wind, and bid adieu to

Vostizza, with a remembrance of its inhospitable shore

not likely to be soon forgotten. We had a delightful

voyage, and enjoyed the beautiful mountain scenery on
both sides of the gulf with much satisfaction, and reached

the custom-house of Corinth, three miles from the town,
               CORINTH.                   71

before the close of the day. We then discharged our

boatmen, and finding no horses, were obliged to stop at

this nasty, wretched place, and passed a most miserable

night. Next morning, the 29th, having got horses, we

started at eight and reached the caravanserai at Corinth

at nine, and having breakfasted and dressed, called upon

the Bey, who received us very civilly. We wandered

Iabout all day examining the place and its antiquities.

arose early in the morning, awakened by the Muezzin as

Ihe was calling the faithful to prayers from the galleries
of the minarets attached to the mosques.  had not

heard this at Patras, having slept too late, and there

Ifore it appeared to me for the first time most novel
and singular.  listened to it with peculiar interest, as

the contrast was so different to our own, where this

Ioffice is performed by bells. On the same day, after

breakfast, examined the town, a poor miserable place

domineered over by the Turks, with no trade, and the

wonder was how the people lived. There was nothing
worthy of examination except the beautiful remains of
the Temple of Venus, of the simple, severe, yet com

manding Doric order. A few columns only were left,

surmounted by the cornice and entablature; these

have been so often measured and engraved, that it is

unnecessary to say more about them here, except that

they are eminently beautiful, and an excellent specimen

of that bold and expressive style of architecture. I

was anxious to mount the Acropolis, crowned by an

Iold fort and garrisoned by Turks, but this was not per

mitted : regretted it much, for, seated as it is on a

commanding eminence, eighteen hundred feet above
the level of the adjoining gulf, the view over the sea

and the fine mountainous surrounding country must be

magnificent ; but the Turks in those days were so proud,
insolent, and domineering, that the sight of a Christian
was an abhorrence to them, and one was glad to get out

of their way, although even then they had considerable
72 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

respect for the English, more indeed than any other
nation ; for we had saved them from the French and
had protected them against the encroachment of the
Russians, who had already begun to be very trouble
some. Having nothing further to see, we were anxious

to get away as early as possible.
    There were two routes to Athens, to which we were

destined, one entirely by land over the isthmus, the
other by sea, after crossing the six miles of isthmus

which separates the Corinthian Gulf from the ^Egean

Sea. We determined therefore to take the latter, and

on the 30th March, having engaged the necessary
number of horses, and loaded them after a considerable
wrangling and noise with their keepers, started at 1 p.m.
for Recrees Ceneres, on the borders of the ^Egean Sea.

At 3 p.m., in crossing the isthmus, we came upon the

remains of the wall said to have been built by the
Venetians for preventing the incursions of the Turks
into the Morea. Here we dismounted, and engaged one
of the boats of the country and embarked. However,
as there was little or no wind, we were out all night,
and did not reach the Piraeus before four o'clock in the
afternoon of the 31st. This is a fine natural port, but

the town was then a miserable place, surrounded by a
few wretched buildings, at the head of which was a
Turkish custom-house, where the authorities at first

Imade considerable opposition to our landing. However,
   soon silenced them with a respectable backshish, or
present, when they became as civil as possible, and not
only allowed us to land with our baggage, but did not
subject us to any examination ; we therefore at once
inquired for horses to take us to Athens, but finding
none to be had, were obliged to remain that night in a
wretched plastered room at the custom-house. Next

day, 1st April, having got horses, we started at six,
with no end of wrangling with muleteers, which the
Turks soon silenced by laying about right and left, to
                       ATHENS.                                              73

our great amusement. I at once interfered, and re

warded the Turks with another backshish, when they

heartily saluted me, and we started without further

molestation, and reached Athens, six miles distant,

over a miserable road, within an hour and a half, at

half-past seven o'clock. There were then no hotels, so

we took up our quarters at the house of a respectable

IGreek, Toagrafos, with but poor accommodation.

Iby this time had become so accustomed to bad fare
and lodging that did not mind       it,

                                                                         ;
                                     but my friend,

the French artist, was not so easily satisfied we

therefore parted, and he endeavoured to find better

apartments elsewhere.  never met him again, and
                       I
consequently do not know how he succeeded with his
                                 a
panorama, or whether he ever completed but heard
that about year afterwards panorama of Greece had
it a                                 it,

                                          aI

                                               I
been exhibited at Paris with considerable success.

hoped that was that of my friend, for he appeared

to be an excellent person, and was certainly                                very

pleasant companion, with all the characteristic ardour
and enthusiasm of his countrymen. He had never

been out of France before, and therefore felt the de-

sagriments of the journey great deal more than did
nevertheless, by the time he reached Athens he had
      ;

               a
                                     it,

                                 it, I
                                                                                                       ;
become tolerably well accustomed to  and, with the

usual French sang froid, made up his mind to and

enjoyed the journey as much as myself.

   We arrived at Athens on Friday, the 1st April, in

the midst of spring the weather was delightful, the

sun shining brightly, the sky cloudless, the vegetation

bursting into full luxuriance, the plain and mountains
covered with flowers and shrubs of the most brilliant

and varied hues. Nature seemed to be in all her glory,
and man to sympathize with her.
                                     was in most
I
                              I

                                                I
exuberant spirits, and was pleased with everything

around me. The beauty of the country, and the very

idea that was in Athens, which from my boyhood
74 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Iwas most anxious to see, and which scarcely ever

Iexpected to behold, aroused me to such a pitch of en

thusiasm that could scarcely believe my eyes ; which

was not extraordinary, considering the brilliant and

I Imemorable scene which burst upon my sight, and by
which was surrounded.  soon sallied forth again,

called upon the English and Austrian consuls and
delivered my letters, and hurried about all day, taking

a hasty view of the Parthenon, the Temple of Theseus,
Jupiter Olympus, and the Temple of the Winds, which
I admired excessively ; then, thoroughly tired and
Iexhausted,
             returned to my lodgings, took a hasty
Isupper and went to bed, dreaming of the glories of

ancient Greece. After breakfast went out, and at

Ionce made my way to the Acropolis, where the glorious

Parthenon stood out prominently. was riveted to the
              and could go no farther. At
admiration,
 myself, and   found the scorching rays of
IsIpcoatmweithto                             last
                                             the

sun rather more than agreeable.  then returned to

my quarters, dined, reposed during the heat of the day,

Iand towards evening again sallied forth, and en
Ijoyed a magnificent sunset, sueh as had been totally
unaccustomed to in our frigid climate of
                                             England.
I again went to the Acropolis the following  day, and

there enjoyed the splendid scene. The Acropolis is

a detached rock, standing high above the plain or

valley on which Athens is situated ; upon this rock is

the citadel, where the Parthenon, the Erechtheum, and

all the other principal buildings are placed, and in
addition to this it is a citadel or fortress, where, in case

of attack, and the city below being taken, the Acropolis

would form a refuge for the garrison and the inhabit

ants. From the summit you command a view of the

country all around : on the north Mount Olympus and
the Pindus range of mountains ; on the south the

Mediterranean, the island of Syra, and several others ;
on the east the plain of Athens, flanked by Mount
           THE PARTHENON.                            75

Hymettus, and Mount Hybla on the north ; on the

west the Piraeus, the jEgean Sea, and the mountains

of the Peloponnesus or Morea ; in fact, whichever

way you look, the view is delightful, and you are

Isatisfied.

      at once removed into a new lodging in a Greek

house, which appeared tolerably clean and comfortable

Ibut as usual found it full of fleas, which tormented
I Ime day and night. However, when went to bed

hit upon  a plan to relieve  Ime at least of a good  many
of them,  which fortunately                          placed
                             proved successful.

Ia number of large plates filled with oil, having a wick
in them ;  then lighted the wicks, and the fleas,

attracted by this, leaped into the plates, which in the

Imorning were black with them, and by this means

got rid of the greatest part, and at length enjoyed

some comfort.

  I now determined to study the antiquities more

Iat leisure, and set regularly about it. Every morn
ing, immediately after breakfast,  proceeded to the

Acropolis, and employed myself in drawing and

measuring the Parthenon, Erechtheum, and other

Ibuildings until dinner time ; and after, in the evening,
  Itook walks and rides round the adjacent country.

Having finished the Acropolis, then proceeded to

the Temples of Theseus and Jupiter Olympus, the

Temple of the Winds, and the other antiquities, which

occupied me about a month. All these splendid

specimens of architecture have been so accurately de
scribed in the elaborate works of Stuart, Cockerell,

Dodwell, Gell, and others, that it is unnecessary to
describe them here. With regard to the Piraeus, and the
Iother ports of Athens, I examined them minutely, and

for plans and description of them refer to my work
Ion ' British and Foreign Harbours.' I also saw a little
of Athenian society. Amongst others,  made the

acquaintance of the Maid of Athens (so celebrated by
76 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

IByron), who was very pretty, ladylike, and agreeable.

  was also most kindly received by Mr. Gropeus, the
Austrian Consul, Mr. Logotheti, the English Consul,

and by the well-known artist, Mr. Luzieri, who had
made some fine views of Athens for Lord Elgin.

The Turks treated the Greeks with great contempt

Iand very little ceremony. By way of illustration,

   was present at the arrival of a new Governor or
Vaivode. His Excellency came mounted on a beautiful

white Arabian horse, surrounded by about a hundred

well-mounted cavalry, all in the magnificent Turkish

costume of the day ; next there followed the hareem,

in crimson-coloured carriages, each slung between

two horses, and escorted on foot by numerous eunuchs

and blacks, all splendidly attired ; then the baggage,

which was carried on the backs of horses, led and

guarded by Greeks, mixed with Turkish soldiers on

foot. The whole town turned out to witness the sight

and welcome their new Governor, who scarcely deigned

to look at them ; whilst the attendants going before

cleared the way with sticks, which they by no means

used sparingly, dealing their blows right and left on

everyone within reach. A number of Turkish lads

amongst the crowd amused themselves by firing off

their guns and pistols, which were loaded with ball

and shot. They took no care which way they fired ;

sometimes in the air, sometimes on the ground, and

sometimes straight forward amongst the crowd ; of

Icourse everybody got out of the way, myself amongst
the number.  saw one Greek who had his leg broken

by a shot from a Turkish lad near me, at which he, the
Turk, and the whole of his                         with
joy, and seemed to think it  Icompanions, shouted
                                                   could
                             great fun : at this

not restrain my indignation, and being armed with a

Igood stout stick, rushed amongst them, striking right
Iand left : some Greeks tried to stop me, but stuck to

them, and had the satisfaction of seeing that no more
                       ATHENS.                                     77

shots were fired except in the air. Nothing impressed

the Turks with so much respect as courage and vigour ;

Ithe more you humbled yourself, the more they bullied

you, being anything but fond of fighting. found from

experience that this was the only way to treat them ;

Imfoorstthotruyginhgfrecqirucuemntsltyancaemso, ngsIt   them, and  under the
                                                       was rarely   molested.

Afterwards  witnessed the entrance of the Pacha

of Negropont, which was in the same style, but upon

a more extended scale.

  I occasionally visited the convents, inhabited by a

few worthy monks, who kindly receive strangers and

lodge and board them for a moderate sum. The

situation is excellent, being in the higher part of the

town, close to the beautiful remains of the Temple of

the Winds, with a splendid view. Athens at the time

of my visit was a poor miserable place, without an inn

worthy of the name. It was surrounded by a crenel

lated wall, which even the artillery of that day would

have demolished with a few rounds of shot. The

Ilyssus and Cephisus are trifling streams, which, passing

on the south side of the town, discharge their waters

into the sea a few miles below. During summer there
is scarcely any water, as it is conducted away by dif

ferent channels for irrigation, so that the beds of these

two rivulets are dry.

I Having explored Athens sufficiently for my purpose,

  determined to make a tour of the Morea, and accord
ingly hired a small decked vessel of about 30 tons to
cross the iEgean Sea, leaving Athens for the Piraeus

on the 25th of March ; and after waiting some time on

board in the harbour, at seven on the 25th started,

reached iEgina at eight, landed after breakfast, and pro
ceeded on foot to the Temple of Jupiter, on a hill about
a mile from the shore. We spent here nearly three

hours measuring and examining the remains of this

beautiful specimen of Greek architecture, and sketching
78 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIB JOHN RENNIE.

Ithe surrounding picturesque scenery ; then started for

the town and port of iEgina, whither had sent the
vessel to meet us, and was told that the distance was only
three or four miles, which turned out to be nearly twelve,
over a rough path, so that we did not reach iEgina until

nearly 6 P.M., very tired and hungry, having had no
lunch. The Temple of Jupiter is a fine specimen of the

Doric, and is well described in Mr. C. E. Cockerell's

excellent work, to which the reader is referred. The
small town of iEgina is situated about the middle of
the west side of the island, facing the Morea, from
which it is separated by a channel about eight or
ten miles wide. The town and island of iEgina were
governed by a Vaivode, who had a few Turkish soldiers,
and was inhabited chiefly by fishermen and small traders.
The surrounding country is hilly, with fertile valleys
producing olives, vines, and grain, and beans of several

Ikinds ; and there are a few sheep and goats.
    The next morning, the 26th March, rose early and
examined the port, which consisted of two artificial
harbours, formed by two piers, each carried out from
the shore, enclosing a considerable space of water, with
a depth of about 10 or 12 feet. This was made by the
ancients, and Mr. Cockerell gave me a plan of which

   inserted in my work on British and Foreign Har
bours.' It was then blowing very hard north-west and

contrary however, soon after noon the wind abated,
when we embarked, and arrived at the little port or
bay of Pilascro, the ancient Epidauros, on the opposite
shore of the Morea, about five o'clock in the afternoon.

Here we disembarked, and walked round the place,

and could only discover what appeared to be the
remains of bath, and some mutilated figures near
and little farther some similar remains, but nothing
remarkable so that would require considerable time

to make anything out of them. In Sir W. Gell's
 Itinerary of the Morea what there well described.
is

                     ;
                                                            '

                                                                          it,

'
          a

                       ;a

                               it

                                                            '

                                                       is
                                                                     is

                                                                             it

                                                                                                                                                                 ;
        EPIDAUROS.                            79

We slept on board. On the 27th we rose at daylight,

and found that the baggage horses, Greek servants,

Iand an excellent Arabian horse, which bought at
IAthens, and which sent round by land, had arrived

at Epidauros. Having disembarked our baggage

and discharged the vessel, we loaded the baggage

on the horses, after which we started for Napoli di
Romania, a small town situated on the Gulf of Argos,

not many miles distant from Epidauros, through an

undulating, picturesque, and rich country. On account
of the guide taking the wrong road, we were obliged
to stop at the village of Tero, where there are a con

siderable number of Roman and Greek remains.

On Friday, 28th March, we started at half-past six,

and at noon reached the picturesque fortress of Napoli
di Romania, on the east side of the Gulf of Argos,
situated on a lofty hill commanding the entrance to

the gulf. The miserable town lay beneath the citadel,

which, as well as the town itself, was strongly fortified

according to the Venetian system, and was a place of

considerable strength, garrisoned by a set of bigoted

ITurkish troops, imbued with a thorough hatred of

Christians, so that was strongly advised not to stop

Ithere. There was, however, no alternative, as there
was no other place near.      therefore rode into the

town, and took up my quarters at the English Vice-

IConsul's, who was a Greek. Immediately after my

arrival went out, and tried to get into the citadel, in
order to have a view of the town and surrounding

country, which was very fine, but the Turks refused

me admittance in the most insolent manner, and

Itold me to get about my business as quickly as pos
sible.  found that it was of no use to attempt to

proceed farther, and returned at once to the town, and

after having examined  a it,  and found nothing worthy

of notice, returned to my lodgings. Here the Vice-

Consul came to me in great fright, and said that
80 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Ithe Turks had been much annoyed at my arrival,

and that must depart directly ; strongly urging me
Ito do so, as he said that he could not protect me, and if
   stayed he would not be responsible for the conse
Iquences.  replied that as it was night it was too
Ilate to depart then, but that would do so the next
Imorning at daybreak. To this he consented.
                                             accord

ingly supped, and went to bed. On the following

morning my servant and myself were in the saddle

before daybreak, and were at the gates of the fortress
waiting for them to be opened. In Turkish fortresses
at that day it was the custom to make every foreigner

Iand Greek dismount and walk over the drawbridge.

thought that this was degrading, and determined not

Ito do it. As soon, therefore, as the gates were opened,

and the drawbridge let down, started off at a rapid
pace, and told Demetrius to follow me. In passing

the Turkish guard, consisting of three or four badly-

Iarmed men, they called out to me to stop, which
I Idisregarded, and galloped off as fast as could.

Ihad scarcely proceeded a couple of hundred yards

when, turning round, saw Demetrius in the hands
of the Turks, who were belabouring him with sticks,

Iand trying to pull him off his horse. He kicked
and fought with all his might.       immediately rode

back with a loaded pistol in each hand, and dashed

amongst the Turks, who soon released my man, and

spurring our horses we galloped off as hard as possible,
never pulling rein for a full mile, and then, finding

we were not followed, stopped and joined our men and
I Ibaggage, whom had
Ihouse before entered   left behind   in a small Greek
                       Nauplia the   preceding evening.

IThus got happily out of this affair, which might

have been rather serious ; but always found the

best way was to show a bold front to the Turks, and
not allow them to insult you. After a little halt
TIRYNS.  61

we started again, and stopped to examine the ruins
of the ancient city of Tiryns, said to have been built

by the Cyclopeans. These are very curious and in

teresting, and are supposed to be the oldest specimens

of architecture in Greece. They are constructed of
rough, only partially hewn blocks of stone, rudely put
together without cement. We have here an attempt
to construct a Gothic arch ; but the stones are not

radiated, the beds being flat, each stone projecting
over another until they meet in the centre. These
ruins are extensive, covering a surface of several
acres. They are well described and represented in
Gell's ' Itinerary.'

   IFrom Tiryns proceeded to Mycene, about 12 miles

farther northward. These ruins are also very exten
sive, and once formed the capital of Agamemnon, with
a small surrounding territory. The chief building
worthy of remark is the Hall of Atreus. This, of the
kind, is a fine work, constructed of solid masonry,
of large blocks of stone well squared, and put together
without cement. The hall is circular, and 47 feet

6 inches in diameter in the inside, and 42 feet 6 inches

high, the top covered by a single stone, thus forming a
Gothic arch inside of squared blocks of stone, the beds

being horizontal, and the stones projecting over each
other in the inside until they meet in the centre, the
angles of the projecting stones in the inside being cut
 off and dressed smoothly on the face, so that, when
viewing it from within, the whole has the appearance

 of a nicely-constructed dome, lighted from the top by a
 circular opening. The side walls are 18 feet 6 inches

at bottom, diminishing to 18 inches at top. It is a

 remarkable work, and may be considered as one of the
 earliest specimens of the arch, and a considerable im
 provement upon that of Tiryns. The entrance to the
 hall is by a massive doorway, the sides being formed
 of single stones well dressed, and the top of another

                                                                          o
 82 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

single block equally well prepared ; this is surmounted
by another large block, upon which is sculptured in
bold relief two lions rampant. The approach to the
doorway is between two solid walls of masonry, form
ing a passage open to the air. This being near the
summit of a hill, there is a fine view from it over the
plain, or rather valley, beneath, backed by the ruins of
the ancient city of Argos and its Acropolis, on the

Gulf of Nauplia, and on the west by a fine range of
mountains, the highest of which towers prominently
above the rest, standing far above the level of the

Mediterranean.
    After having measured the Hall of Atreus, and having

made a sketch of the surrounding country, during

Iwhich my people had managed to cook an excellent

dinner in the open air, dined, and started about 4 p.m.,
and reached Argos at 5 p.m. The ruins of the ancient
city contain little worthy of remark, and the modern
one is a miserable village, seated amongst the ruins.
The rich country was not half cultivated, merely dotted
here and there with a few vineyards and olive woods.
Argos is now about a mile from the head of the Gulf
of Nauplia, but it is very probable that in former
times the sea washed the walls of the ancient city ; the
intervening space has been filled up by alluvial deposit,

Iand it is now little better than a marsh.
       slept at the caravanserai, and next morning started
for the Temple of Jupiter at Nemea, passing through
a rich valley with vines, grain, and olives, and the
village of Agioz Georgious, near which is a convent on
a hill. These convents are not the seats of learning,
for the monks are lazy and ignorant ; but they form
comfortable resting-places for travellers who pay well
for their accommodation. The ruins of the Temple of
Jupiter, well described by Gell, consist only of three
columns of an indifferent style of Doric.

   Having returned to Argos to sleep, on Sunday,
ARGOS.  83

IMay 1, arose early. The morning was wet and
Istormy, and was detained by the muleteer demand

ing extra pay for the horses, which, however, the Bey
decided against him. We accordingly started about

seven, and soon after began to ascend the Pass through

the mountains, having on the left the miserable village
Lerna, seated on the swampy shore of the gulf,

anciently called Hydra; and hence was derived the
Lernean hydra or monster, celebrated by Virgil. This
was no doubt nothing more than the malaria fever

personified, which prevails severely in this district.

In fact, the whole of this country had a wretched, for

lorn, deserted appearance. The population was scanty,
oppressed by poverty, misery, and tyranny, their coun
tenances for the most part pale and haggard, expressing

despair and dejection, to extricate themselves from
which appeared hopeless ; whilst the surrounding
country, naturally fertile, aided by the influence of a
genial climate, only required the industry of man to
make it yield the richest reward. Nothing was done;

all lay dead and desolate. Nature seemed to have done
everything for man, while man had in everything

neglected nature ; a not uncommon occurrence, and
one which, as far as my experience goes, has produced
more misery than almost anything else.

   We began to ascend the Pass over a rude causeway,
about eight or ten feet wide, in many places cut up into

deep gullies by the torrents ; the ascent steep, rugged,
and difficult, fit only for mules and pack-horses. The
evening was fine, however, the air fresh and invigo
rating, and the scenery beautiful, which raised my

spirits after the melancholy caused by the depressing
influence of the sight of so much desolation. Having
got to the summit of the Pass, we had a magnificent

view on both sides. Looking back, we had the Gulf of
Nauplia, with the picturesque fortress at the entrance,
the plain of Argos and its ruins, also those of Mycene

                                                                             a2
84 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

and Tiryns, backed by a rugged outline of hills; on

the west the fertile plain, with its capital Tripolitza,
and the ruins of Mantinea, backed by a bold line of

hills, with the magnificent Taygetus rising 7000 feet,

flanked on both sides by the blue waters of the Medi

terranean. We reached Tripolitza just after dark, and,

as usual, put up at the best Greek house where we

could find admittance I; and as had a good sumpter

mule, Demetrius soon prepared a capital supper, which

I enjoyed much after a hard-working day of nineteen
Ihours, during which had been fourteen hours in the
Isaddle.
          slept soundly, notwithstanding the attacks
Iof numerous fleas, to which by this time had become

tolerably well accustomed.

Tripolitza, although the capital of the Morea, was

but a poor place, with about 4000 inhabitants, and the
Turkish garrison of about 300 men. The Governor's
palace was merely an assemblage of some low, in
significant buildings enclosed within a wall. The rest
of the town consisted of irregular, crooked, narrow,

dirty streets, some of them hardly wide enough for

a carriage, for which, indeed, there was no need, and

there were none ; with a place or square near the
centre, surrounded by cafes, where the Turks and better

class of natives, such as they were, sat idly smoking

their long pipes and nargillas with that stupid indiffer

ence and repose which characterized them, perfectly

regardless of any but themselves, and quite uncon

scious and indifferent to the misery around them. There

were one or two bazaars, where all the business of the

place was transacted ; in these cloths, furs, shawls,
leather articles, such as saddles, bridles, &c, silks, arms,

pipes, tobacco, and provisions of all kinds, were sold,
but scarcely any articles of European manufacture.

The town was surrounded by a crenellated wall, unfit

for artillery, and incapable of resistance to European

troops; and there were two or three mosques, with
                     TRIPOLITZA.                                        8.r>

their minarets rising above the mass of insignificant

buildings, and a few Greek churches, the interiors of

which were decorated with rude and almost grotesque
representations of saints. These edifices, towering above

the rest, had a picturesque and imposing effect when

viewed from a distance, but this vanished the moment

you drew near and entered, when little else but dirt

Iand misery met the eye.                                                walked about

   The following day after my arrival

Ithe town, amusing myself with the little which was to

be seen ; and the next day rode, accompanied by my

servant Demetrius, to the ruins of the ancient Mantinea,

formerly a city of considerable importance, and well

fortified according to the style of that period. It was

surrounded by a strong lofty stone wall, about 25 feet

high, flanked at intervals by circular turrets, and in

front of each entrance there was a kind of lunette or

advanced work to protect
          is
                    a

                               it,
                                               it

                                                                         by
                                                                             a
                                                  so that an enemy, in

endeavouring to enter, was exposed to flank attacks

from the garrison. These walls were surrounded

wide ditch filled with water, and the total surface en

closed by them considerable. The ruins within con

sist of the remains of hippodrome, theatre, and other

private and public buildings, concerning which, from

their scattered and dilapidated condition, was difficult

to define anything accurately. In the neighbourhood

of Tripolitza there are numerous kalavatha, or subter

ranean conduits for carrying off the water for drainage,
irrigation, and supplying the inhabitants. The river

is                                                such                  can be called,

                                                                     ;

                                 it if

                                                          is

                                                       it
flowing through the plain,                        connected with the
     an insignificant stream

subterranean conduits described above. The surround-                                    

ing country was tolerably cultivated, and produced
corn, pulse, oil, and wine, both red and white. This
wine was made in very rough way, and, in order to
          it,
                          a

                           it

                                   a
                                               a
preserve  was mixed with certain quantity of tur

pentine, which gave  strong bitter flavour, by no
86 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

means agreeable at first ; and until you become accus

atomed to   you cannot drink     with any degree of
                   I
      it,
                                 it
                                        it,
                                                   it
                                                           is
relish, but by degrees you like  and                           very

wholesome.

Whilst at Tripolitza became acquainted with the

late Mr. Hodgets Foley, afterwards M.P. for Droit-

wich, very amiable, good-natured person. As an
instance of Turkish civility, Mr. Foley was taking his

usual ride in the evening, accompanied by his servant,

and on his way met with party of the delhi, or
                   a
                      a
cavalry, playing at football, game in which they much

delighted. As they passed he civilly pulled up to get out
of their way, when two or three of them at once, with

out the smallest provocation, attacked him, laid hold of

his horse, and otherwise maltreated him, and he with

some difficulty extricated himself from their hands, and

rode back to Tripolitza as quickly as possible, to lay his

complaint before our Vice-Consul, who was Greek.
                 a
He made his complaint to the Governor, who promised
                    I
redress, but (Turkish fashion) never gave it. Foley's;
mistake was this, that instead of getting out of the
                                      a
way, he should have ridden right into the midst
                                I
of them, laying about him on both sides with his
                                            I
                                                                        a
                                                                                        a
whip as hard as possible then they would have feared

and respected him, and have never offered him any

violence.

After having seen all that was worthy of attention

in the town and neighbourhood, started for Misitra,

the site of the ancient Sparta, some miles from Tripo

litza, the route to which lay through the plain. We

reached Misitra, miserable village, towards evening,

and obtained tolerable quarters in a respectable Greek

house, where we were received very kindly, and most
hospitably entertained, which of course paid for by

handsome present.  sat down to supper with the
family, consisting of the husband, his handsome wife,

daughter, and son, before low table, placed upon
                MISITRA.                                             87

the floor; the dishes consisted of soup, a species of

stewed mutton, vegetables, and cakes and fruits. After
dinner the servant came round with a basin and ewer,

and poured water over our hands, and then presented
a napkin to wipe them : we next adjourned to another

room, where coffee and pipes were served, and the

daughter sung very prettily some Greek airs, accom

Ipanied by the mandoline; and thus passed a very

agreeable evening.

  The following morning I rose early and proceeded to

the ruins of ancient Sparta, some miles distant. Here

nothing is to be seen of this ancient celebrated city, but
some mounds, fragments of walls and buildings, the
extent and designation of which it is extremely difficult

Ito make out. It was in vain, therefore, to attempt more,

and so next determined to prosecute my journey into
Maina, said to be inhabited by the descendants of the
Spartans. This was considered at that time to be a
journey of considerable difficulty and danger, and, in
deed, impracticable, on account of the lawlessness of the
natives, who were said to be nothing more than a set of

pirates and robbers, at war with the whole world and
each other. Lord Byron wished to go there, but was

;dissuaded from although no person ever accused

       it,
            it,

                                                                  ;

                                 II
his lordship of want of courage. My janissary ad

vised me not to make the journey, and said that
he would not accompany me, as we should all be

murdered and added that the Turks, who had fre

quently endeavoured to conquer the country both by

land and by sea, had always failed. The more they

tried to dissuade me from going, the more was deter

mined to do     being stimulated also by doing that

which few persons would attempt therefore discharged

my janissaries and extra horses and servants, and sent
them to meet me at Calamata, the other side of the

peninsula, and decided to undertake the journey with
Demetrius alone, who was well acquainted with one of
83 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

the captains or chiefs of the district of Marathonesi, and

who was anxious to go himself, and said that the diffi

Iculties had been greatly exaggerated, and that we
should get through very well.  resolved, therefore, to

start on the following morning.

  IBefore proceeding farther will endeavour to describe

the country which we were about to visit. The district

of Maina is situated at the southern extremity of the

Morea ; it is bounded on the north by Mount Taygetus,
and its subsidiary range of mountains, and by Cape
Matapan on the south, so that it forms a triangle, jutting

out into the Mediterranean ; and on the east and west

sides it is bordered by that sea, so that on all sides,
except on the north, it is surrounded by water. As to
the aborigines, it is difficult to find any well-authenti

cated account ; it is supposed that they at one time
formed part of the Spartan republic. After the con
quest of the Greeks by the Romans, and subsequently by

the Turks, they took refuge here, and being of a warlike

and restless temperament, disdained all subjection to

any one chief, but divided themselves into separate com

munities, and chose their chief for the time, who was the

most able and successful warrior amongst them. These

communities or tribes were wholly independent, and
were frequently at war with each other, but always

united to defend themselves against the common

enemy, and they drove out the Turks, who frequently,
but in vain, attempted to bring them under subjection,

and latterly had quite given it up. Such was the state

of the country when 1 visited it. The whole population

was considered to be about 20,000, divided into capi-

tanates or beylichs, with a supreme chief, to whom,

however, the allegiance was merely nominal, and only

accorded when the whole country was invaded by a

common enemy. On other occasions, each tribe or

community made war upon the others upon the least

provocation, or upon the surrounding countries and
MAINA.  89

seas as it suited them ; in fact, they were a horde of
pirates, at war with all mankind, who treated them
accordingly. It was no uncommon event at that day
for a British ship of war to bombard its seaports and
to land a strong body of men to chastise the natives
whenever they could lay hold of them ; but as the

coast is intersected with numerous creeks, backed by

innumerable inaccessible mountain fortresses, to which

they escaped when overpowered, it was almost im
possible to root them out. Every petty chief had a
stronghold or fortress, where he lived with his most
intimate followers. In some cases this fortress was

surrounded by a strong loop-holed wall, to which no

access was given except by a drawbridge or ladder,
which could be drawn up when attacked ; and the

access to the castle within was the same. In others
it was a simple square or round tower, with the

entrance about 10 feet above the ground, approach
able only by a ladder, which could be removed at

pleasure, and was always drawn up at night. The
country for the most part was uncultivated, and al
though extremely fertile, capable of producing corn,
wine, oil, fruit, and silk in abundance, served little

more than to supply the deficiency when booty was

scarce. Such was the general state of Maina, which I

Idetermined to visit. We accordingly left our heavy

baggage behind, and started early in the morning,
accompanied by Demetrius and one baggage horse.
Shortly after leaving Misitra we crossed the frontier,

 came to a wild, desolate country with nothing but
 brushwood, occasionally mixed with lofty valonia trees,
 the bark and fruit of which form a valuable article

 of export.

   At midday we halted as usual to give our horses, as

 well as ourselves, rest and refreshment ; and the ever-

 active Demetrius, in a comparatively short time, pro
 vided us with a tolerable dinner, and after a couple of
90 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

hours' rest started again on our journey, and passing
through the same kind of wild country we reached the

sea-shore and the ruins of the ancient Marathonesi, the

greatest portion of which had been submerged by an

earthquake, and we could distinctly discern the build

ings through the clear water. A few miles farther we

reached the neat little seaport town, the modern Mara
thonesi, the capital of the tribe of which Demetrius's

friend was the chief. In the course of our day's journey

we were not a little inspired and gratified that we had

not been attacked or even molested, notwithstanding

the dismal accounts and forebodings which had been

made to us. It is true we met a few rough, straggling,

armed fellows on the way, and they looked at us with

a fierce, independent scowl, but seeing us well armed

and prepared to meet them, passed on without further

remark.

We arrived, soon after sunset, at the house of the chief,

and were most kindly received by him, and he showed

us into some clean comfortable bedrooms, furnished, to

my surprise, in the French fashion. The fact      is,  the

chief was great merchant and trader with the Ionian
         a
                                a
Islands, Italy, and France, and possessed considerable

wealth, and was far more civilized than the rest of his

countrymen. He was fine handsome courteous young

man, about twenty-eight, of the middle size, and ex

tremely well-proportioned, sinewy, active, and vigorous.
His countenance was oval, of the true Greek form, with

dark piercing eyes, black eyebrows and lashes, well-

defined nose, small mouth, with compressed lips, and

beautiful white teeth with long moustaches, curling
a

     ;
                                               ;

                                          a
several inches below his chin, and his head covered

with profusion of black hair hanging down in natural

ringlets; he wore no beard, his chin being closely

shaven in fact, he was                            very dashing personage.

He gave us an excellent supper, and entertained us
with numerous anecdotes and accounts of the country
MAINA.                               91

Iand its inhabitants ; he asked me how could think

of venturing among such a lawless people, whom no

stranger ever visited, and strongly recommended me to

Igo back, as after having learned that proposed to

cross the country and return by the opposite coast,

he said the journey would be attended with consider

able danger, and he feared that he could not protect

me. Both Demetrius, who sat at table with us, and

myself told him that it would be disgraceful to go back,
and if he would furnish us with an escort of some of his

followers they should be properly paid, and we had no

doubt but that we should get through our journey without

difficulty. Finding that we were determined to proceed,

he opposed our intentions no more, but said he would

do the best he could for us. Being rather tired with

our day's ride, we went to bed and slept soundly until

soon after sunrise the next morning, when we were up

and stirring. Our friend, the chief, told me that he

Iwould provide me with an escort of twenty-five well-

armed men, whom might safely rely upon. We ac

cordingly breakfasted, and went to look over the town,
Iwhich was the neatest and cleanest
                                     had seen in

Greece. There were several vessels taking in and

delivering their cargoes; in fact, the little town was

bustling with activity and industry. All my escort,

consisting of five-and- twenty stout, active, wiry fellows,

were mustered outside of the town waiting for me, and

a fierce, rough, savage-looking set they were, armed to

the teeth with guns, pistols, and yatagans, clad a good

deal like Albanians, with kilts, jackets, hose, and red

skull-caps, with long moustaches, close-shaven chins,

and long hair falling down their shoulders. Most of
them had several scars from wounds received in their

various fights. Before starting I examined their arms

to see if they were properly loaded and flinted, as it

frequently happened that they were in bad order and

would not go off when they pulled the trigger, and
02 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

often burst, so that they did more harm to themselves

Ithan to their enemies. found the arms, however, better
Ithan expected, and giving some of them fresh flints

Iand good powder and ball, they were properly loaded.

  then said a few words of encouragement, which their

chief, who was with me, interpreted, and told them to
behave like men, and take care of me, and they would be

properly paid. The men answered one and all, that there
was no fear but that they would take good care of the

English Milord, as they called me, and off we started
in high spirits for the opposite side of the peninsula.

The view from Marathonesi was extremely beautiful.

On the north the noble Mount Taygetus, with its

numerous peaks, deeply-indented gorges, ravines, and

its sides covered densely with woods, rose towering

above the clouds. At its base there was a torrent

running east and west through a valley bordered by

precipitous cliffs towards the sea. On the south side of

the torrent was a narrow road, and the perpendicular
cliff on the south side of the road was full of caverns

admirably adapted for the concealment of brigands,

pirates, and bad characters of all kinds, of which so
many abounded in the country. We had to pass

through this gorge, and at the time there was a great
number of these vagabonds concealed in the caves,

Iwaiting to intercept the merchants going backwards
and forwards to and from Marathonesi.  was warned
of this, and determined to drive these rascals, if there
                                                        I
were any, out of the caverns before we passed.

accordingly told about eight or ten of the most active

Iof my escort to cross the river and climb the base of the

hill, and to fire into the caves, whilst and the main

body proceeded along the road; and as we searched

each cave as we advanced, if any robbers were con
cealed in them, they could not escape ; and if they

attempted to do so, they were exposed to two fires. We

were thus proceeding cautiously through the Pass, and
                     MAINA.                         93

had scarcely well entered when my men on the opposite
side of the valley commenced firing into the caverns,

and at first they were sharply replied to by the con
cealed bandits. This did not last long, for the robbers,

who were not equal to us in numbers, found that they

were out-manoeuvred, and if they remained in the caves

must all be taken, and they expected little mercy from

their captors. They therefore left the caves, and fled

as fast as possible, upon seeing which my people on
both sides of the torrent followed them with equal
speed, firing at random whilst they went forward. This

rude and desultory mode of fighting was fortunately
attended with no slaughter, although several flesh

wounds occurred. My party being the stronger, we

overtook the brigands, and made three or four prisoners.

At this my people were delighted, and at the same time

Iexasperated against them, and wished to shoot them.
   at once interposed, but found that my men were so

excited with the fight and subsequent pursuit, that

it was extremely difficult to control them. However,

after a little while I pacified them by saying that it was

unmanly and unworthy to kill an enemy after he had
surrendered. This did not seem to have much impres

sion on them, as they considered the conquered their

lawful prize, and that they might do what they liked
Iwith them.
             ultimately quieted them by saying that
I would pay a good sum per head for each of the

                     willingly accepted, fearing that
                      report them to their chief.
four taken, which

Iif they refused I
              they
             should

therefore released the captives, who upon their knees

thanked me for their lives. Having reached the end of

the Pass, and the road being tolerably clear to the end

Iof the day's journey, dismissed my escort with about

ten shillings each, besides a capital dinner, and a good

sum for the captives, with which they were pleased,

and left me with many thanks and cheers, expressed

very cordially in their peculiar and rough manner.
94 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

IHaving parted with my escort,  rode leisurely

Iforward with Demetrius and the baggage horse, until

we reached the castle of a capitano, to whom had

a letter of introduction from my excellent friend
the Captain of Marathonesi. On our arrival, which

was just as the sun was setting, we found the chief

surrounded by numerous followers seated on stone

benches fixed to the gate of the outer wall by which

the castle was surrounded. The old chief and his

attendants were quietly enjoying their pipes and
coffee, whilst the cowherds were driving in the

Icattle for the night, just as described in Homer. The

chief and his suite arose to meet me as advanced

and presented my letter of introduction, which he re

ceived with much dignity, and welcomed me most

kindly to his castle, and certainly a wild, rough place it
was. Within the outer wall was placed the keep or

castle, consisting of a great square tower massively built,
containing a few rough apartments with little or no

furniture except a few mattresses and cushions, which

were removed during the day. The space between the

main tower or residence was filled with numerous out

houses and sheds for the cattle and servants and guards
of the chief. After a short conversation we adjourned

to the inner castle, and were shown into the principal

room, about 30 feet square, with divers rows of low
cushions placed all round against the walls. Directly

after our arrival, a low table was brought in, and

the chief, his attendants, myself, and servant Deme
trius, to the number of about a dozen, sat down

cross-legged to supper, which was immediately served.
This consisted of stewed mutton, with vegetables, roast

game, sweets, and fruits, which for the most part we ate
with our fingers. Before each guest was placed a bottle

full of wine, but there were no glasses on the table, so
that one had no alternative but to drink out of the

bottle, which was refilled several times with good red
             MAINA.  95

wine. After dinner we took to our pipes and coffee,

during which we had a good deal of agreeable conver

sation, which was chiefly devoted to inquiries about

England, in which they appeared to take the greatest
interest. After having well supped, and having
smoked and conversed as long as we felt it agreeable,
one by one we dropped off to sleep upon our mattresses,

Iarmed, and without undressing, ready for a surprise at
any moment.  soon fell asleep, and awoke at day

break thoroughly refreshed. We all got up, shook

ourselves, washed, and took coffee and a pipe, and then

strolled about till breakfast. This castle is situated on

a fine bay on the sea-shore, near the base of Taygetus.
Outside the walls of the castle there is a straggling

village. Besides fishing-boats, there were several others

of a more suspicious character, being sharply built,
and having the appearance of pirates. We got a

capital breakfast with the old chief; afterwards rowed
in the bay ; and then taking a hearty farewell of my
worthy host, started for Kitriai, the castle of the Bey,

who was the nominal chief of the whole of Maina.
We reached Kitriai a little before sunset, and were

most kindly received by the Bey, a fine old warrior,

about 5 feet 10 inches high, well built, square, and

muscular, with an open, well-developed Greek counte

nance, thick moustache, and flowing white beard.

There was something mild and gentlemanlike in his

manner, very different to any other we had met. We

were shown to our apartments, which were very com

fortable, overlooking the sea and surrounding coasts.

I spent the next day very agreeably in looking about

the adjacent country, which was very pretty, but not so

wild and grand as that nearer to Taygetus. Besides the

Bey, there were several of his counsellors, his secretary,

and one or two Greek priests, all accomplished persons,

who spoke the Greek in its purity, much to my gratifi

cation and instruction. The town of Kitriai is about
96 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

the size of Marathonesi, but not nearly so neat and

clean, neither had it so much trade.

   On the morning after, we started at daybreak, and
proceeded along the coast to Calamata. This town
ranked about the third in the Morea, and was then

doing a good trade; but, like all the towns in the
Morea, was miserable and dirty, with narrow streets,

low buildings, from one to two stories high, two or

three insignificant mosques and Greek churches, and

a square near the centre, with several cafes, filled, as
usual, with idle Turks and Albanians, smoking their

pipes and sipping coffee and sherbet, whilst numerous
Greek merchants and Jews were transacting their

business. The bazaars were close by, and crowded

with purchasers.     The harbour was full of vessels   and
sailors of various  kinds -- Hydriote Greeks (amongst  the

best sailors on the Mediterranean), Austrian, French,
and a few English vessels, besides a number of boats

Icalled caiques, and fishing vessels, altogether a busy
scene.  took up my quarters at a Greek house, as

Irough and dirty as usual, and found my heavy baggage,

servants, and janissary whom had sent from Misitra.

  Next day I started at daybreak through a wild, undu

lating, partially-cultivated country to visit the two Doric

temples of Messenia, where Mr. Cockerell discovered

the celebrated Phigalian marbles. It is said that these

marbles were sent to Malta for sale, of which due notice

was given by advertisement, and a certain day fixed for

the auction, to which commissioners were sent by the
British and other Governments. The sale, however, by

some mistake, took place at Athens. The British agent,
not being aware of this, remained at Malta. There was
therefore no person present to bid on the part of the
British Government, and they were knocked down to

the Bavarian agent. When this was announced, the
British Government refused to deliver up the marbles,

upon the plea that the sale ought to have taken
         MESSENIA.                     07

place at Malta. The matter remained in abeyance
until the Peace of 1814, when the Bavarian sovereign

was in England. Certain negotiations then took place,

and the British Government ultimately agreed to give

the marbles up to Bavaria, upon condition that a
complete set of casts was sent to the British Museum.

By this unfortunate affair England lost a valuable

prize; and this loss was the more annoying, because,
having already obtained the Elgin marbles, the Phi-
galian marbles --which represented an earlier stage of
Greek art--would have rendered the English collec
Ition the most complete in the world.
                                       spent the

greater part of the day at Phigalia in measuring and
sketching the temples, which are situated upon a hill

commanding a fine view of the picturesque surrounding

Icountry.
      took up my quarters in a Greek house, got supper
as soon as possible, and went to bed, with the cus
tomary annoyance of vermin. The country around

was naturally rich and fertile, but left, as usual, almost
in a state of nature. Undulating, with clumps of wood
scattered about, it resembled a good deal the park-like
scenery of England. There were numerous flocks of
sheep and goats and a few herds of cattle feeding upon
excellent herbage, guarded here and there by wild,
shepherds, armed with guns and yatagans. The pea
santry appeared very poor and ragged, but, notwith
standing, many of the women had skull-caps made of

gold coins strung together, called mahmoudies, about
the size of a sovereign. This composed their whole
wealth ; and it is a curious fact that these head-dresses

were respected, and never stolen. The men also, and
in some cases the women, had the girdles round their
waists fastened together by large discs of silver about
the size of a small plate. Thus there was a strange
contrast of wealth and poverty exhibited in the same

person.
98 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

We started early next day, and at noon on the

second day reached the Alpheus, the most consider

able river in the Morea, and which flows through the

famous plain of Olympia. The river Alpheus here

was 150 to 200 yards broad, but fortunately the waters

were low, although we had some difficulty in crossing

without swimming our horses. In the Olympian plain

there were scarcely any remains worth noticing, though

numerous fragments of marble, brick, and pottery are

strewed about. We got some very rough quarters for

the night in a village near Olympia, and next day,

passing over a similar kind of country, reached Patras

before sunset, at which we greatly rejoiced, as we were

Itolerably tired with our rough journey in the Morea.

  succeeded in getting, as I thought, clean, com
fortable quarters in a respectable Greek house. I was

shown upstairs into a large well-furnished room, with

apparently a delicious-looking bed covered with a snow-

white counterpane. They gave me an excellent dinner
Iand some good wine, after which, being very tired,
Ithrew myself on the outside of the bed for a nap. slept
Imost soundly for about five or six hours, and when
Iawoke it was quite dark; felt all the torments of
Ithe damned, for was almost devoured by immense
Ibugs.  jumped out of the bed in an instant, rubbing

my face, which was covered with blood and bugs,
Iand struck a light, when found that the bed too was
Ialmost covered with them.
                            very soon caught some
I Idozens, may almost say hundreds ; undressed, and

cleared my clothes of them, then dressed myself, and

waited until daylight, being resolved not to trust to a

IGreek bed again, but to my own mattress.
       spent the next day at Patras quietly, and then

started off on my return to Athens, taking the cir

cuitous route by Delphos, Livadia, Euboea, Negropont,
and Marathon. We coasted along the south shore of
the Gulf of Lepanto, passed our old friend the ruined
                       PATRAS.      09

convent near Vostizza, and dined at the house of a

IGreek merchant near, who kindly invited and treated

me most hospitably. After dinner, just before de

parted, our worthy host said he would show me a

curiosity, and without more ado he brought out a large
tub full of black snakes each about four feet long ; at
the word of command all these reptiles leaped out of

the tub and began dancing about the table, at which

I got considerably alarmed, when my host burst out

laughing, and said they would do me no harm unless I

Iirritated them, which of course had no idea of doinsr.
I therefore looked quietly on, and in a short time he

called to them and they quickly leaped back into the tub.
He said these snakes abounded in the cornfields which

had just been reaped, but they were timorous, and

never did any harm unless provoked; their bite was

Inot dangerous, although for a time it occasioned a good
deal of inflammation.  parted from my worthy host

with many thanks, and then hired a large boat to take

myself, servants, horses, and baggage across the gulf to

Scalo, on the opposite side. We reached the landing-
place about sunset, after a four hours' voyage, and pro

ceeded to a caravanserai close by for the night. This

was a most wretched place, in the middle of a marsh

filled with large frogs and mosquitoes innumerable ; and
what with the loud croaking of the frogs, and the bites

of the mosquitoes and bugs, it was impossible to sleep

with any degree of comfort. There was a party of

Turks and Albanians at the caravanserai who suffered

as much as we did ; being unable to sleep, they

revenged themselves on the khange or master of the
caravanserai, and belaboured him with their sticks

most unmercifully, and left him without paying for

Ianything. The poor fellow complained to me bitterly ;

but unfortunately could give him no redress. As
soon as it was daylight we started also ; I paid him

handsomely, although we had scarcely anything from

                                n2
100 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Ihim, but lived on our own provisions. He was very

grateful, and hoped to see me again, but told him

that was very improbable.
As we cleared the marsh and got amongst the

splendid mountain scenery, in the midst of which the

classic Mount Parnassus reared his majestic head,

towering above the whole, the fine fresh air completely
revived us. We passed Salano, surrounded by olives,

and breakfasted under the trees, much to our comfort.

A little before noon on the 26th of May we reached
the village of Kastri, the site of the celebrated Delphos,

situated at the base of Mount Parnassus. Enhanced

as it is by classical recollections, the magnificence of the

Isurrounding scenery it is impossible to describe; let it

suffice to say shall never forget it. Of the temple and

Ispring scarcely anything remain, and a good deal must
be left to the imagination.        descended into a small

plastered well, said to be the ancient Castalian spring,

which is situated in a cavern at the base of the moun

I Itain ; here the oracle was said to have been placed, and

although was not inspired, nevertheless could not
divest myself of the sanctity of the place and of the

wonderful influence which the oracle once held over the

ancient world. The surrounding scenery, with Par

nassus towering above the clouds, added much to my

enthusiasm, which was increased by the sight of seven

or eight fine eagles soaring over our heads and
Iscreaming wildly.
                    was delighted with the scene,
Iand only regretted that had not time to ascend to
the summit of Olympus.
          a halt of three or four  hours, during which I
   After  started in high spirits
                                   for Livadia, where we
dined, I

halted for the night. This was a rather large town,

with extensive cotton manufactories, seated on the side

of a lofty hill overlooking the Lake Copais and the
fertile plain of Thebes. We got tolerable quarters here,
not forgetting the ever present bugs and mosquitoes.
                       NEGROPONT.         101

INext day visited the ancient Orchomenus, the remains
of which are very inconsiderable, consisting of the
Itreasury, similar to that of Mycene, but elliptical in
stead of circular ; also of the citadel.  also visited the

ancient lion of Chaeronsea, which is tolerably perfect,
cut out of
   On the   the solid  rock. Keturned      to Livadia to sleep.
            28th May                      cave of Trophonius.
                       I examined the

IThe weather was very hot, as it was the latter end of
the month.  then travelled on until, passing through

the miserable modern town of Thiva, for of the ancient

celebrated Thebes there are no remains worthy of notice,

we took a route to the north-east, and entered a defile,

in the centre of which there is the beautiful tranquil

Lake of Copais about four miles long, upon which some
wild swans and ducks were enjoying themselves.

The next day we were off at daybreak, and on our

way examined the kolavothora or outlet at the lower

end of Lake Copais, which was a rough, unfinished

tunnel cut through the sandstone rock ; by means of
this tunnel the surplus waters of the lake are discharged

into the sea, otherwise the lake would overflow and

totally submerge the surrounding plain. This is a

considerable work, but is not carried far enough ; if

it were the whole lake would be laid dry, a large

quantity of valuable and fertile soil would be gained,

and the surrounding district rendered much more

healthy. From there we proceeded through an arid,

stony, undulating country to Negropont. Upon reaching

the shores of the arm of the sea which divides the island

of Negropont from the main, and which is scarcely

I200 yards wide at the narrowest point, although very

hot, stopped to make a sketch of the beautiful scene ;

having done this we proceeded across the bridge which

connects the island with the mainland, to the fortified

town of Negropont. The town is surrounded by a

strong wall with circular towers at the angles; these

towers mount some heavy guns, particularly towards tho
102 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOIIN RENNIE.

sea front, where there is a casemated battery, incapable,
however, of resisting the broadside of a heavy frigate.
This town at the time of my visit was garrisoned by
fierce, bigoted Turks, who had the utmost contempt
for Christians, nevertheless with a certain respect for

Europeans, particularly the English. The chief in

habitants were Greeks, whom the Turks kept in the
most perfect subjection. The interior of the town
consisted of narrow streets with low, mean houses, and

a few mosques, Greek churches, bazaars, cafes, &c.
There was very little trade, although the place is well

adapted fora          as the island rich and fertile. We
                                       is
                 it,
got into Greek house and made ourselves as com
fortable as we could, and one of my Greek servants

for greater protection requested one of my old hats,
which gave him, and of which he was very proud,
      I
                contrasted strangely with his picturesque
            it
although

    Greek costume.

      There was nothing to be seen in the town, and as

we did not appear to be welcome guests, the sooner we

    left the better, so the next day started for Marathon,
                                       I

                                                             ;

                                                    it

                                                            is
    having sent the heavy baggage down to Athens, which
      expected to reach the same evening. This renowned
aa I
    battle-field interested me exceedingly                      about two

    miles wide, and           bounded by the sea on the east,
               I

                          is
    and the ranges of Mounts Hymettus and Pentelicus on

    the west.   fancied in my enthusiasm that could
                                                                I

    discover the positions of the different commanders,

    their manoeuvres, and in fact the whole battle from

    beginning to end.         I  remained there several hours,

    until near sunset, and then left with Demetrius at             a

    hand-gallop, expecting to reach Athens in the course of
      couple of hours or so. We had no guide, and thought

    that our most direct course lay through the wood on our

    right, where there was convent, which would serve as
                      if
                                    a
      halting-place necessary. Off we started, and were
    soon in the wood, which became thicker and thicker
MARATHOX.  103

as we advanced; the road, which at the first was

only a horse-track, now became fainter and fainter ; and
at last we lost it altogether. The sun had now set, and
the short twilight had disappeared. After floundering
about the wood for some time, our horses came to a

dead stop, and neither whip nor spur would make them
budge an inch farther, but they backed, snorting

violently, and rearing occasionally so as almost to

unseat us. We could see nothing, it being quite dark,

and could not imagine why our horses had come to
such a dead stand ; we therefore threw the reins on

their necks and allowed them to have their own way ;
and most fortunately we did so, for they had more sense
than their masters. When left to themselves they
immediately turned round and went back for some
distance, then turned to the left and commenced a very

rapid descent, occasionally sliding for a considerable
distance ; sometimes losing their footing, then slipping
and sliding again, so that we could hardly keep our

seats. At last we came to the bottom, cleared the
wood, and reached a grass plain. It was now about

midnight ; we did not know where we were or where
 the convent was ; in fact, we were lost, so that there

was no alternative but to picket our horses and lie
down on the grass till morning. Although very tired
 and hungry we had nothing to eat; we accordingly
 wrapped ourselves in our cloaks and lay down and
 slept until sunrise. When we woke we found our
 selves at the bottom of a perpendicular cliff above
 80 feet high ; we now saw the cause of our horses' halt
 the night before ; we were doing all we could to force
 them over this precipice, but by a merciful Providence
 their instinct saved us. We were sincerely grateful
 for our escape, and shuddered to think how narrowly
 we had missed a terrible catastrophe. We then looked
 for our horses, but they were nowhere to be seen ; we

 at once concluded that they must have been stolen by
104 AUTOBIOGRArilY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

robbers, who were said to be numerous in the neigh

bourhood. After searching everywhere for about a

mile round, we at last observed them quietly feeding

under a hill, and had very little difficulty in catching

and mounting them. We rode to the convent which

was close by, and which for the darkness we could not

find the previous night. Here we got a capital break

fast, and rested, and the good monks having heard our

story, congratulated us on our escape, not only from
the precipice but from the robbers. We dined here

also, and rode to Athens in the cool of the evening,

Iwhere took up my old quarters. Before leaving
Ithe convent went out and took a sketch of Athens,

which is about four miles distant, and the surrounding

country. The view is extremely beautiful ; in the front
you have Athens, with its Acropolis, rising out of the

plain, backed by the island of JEgina, in the midst of the

iEgean Sea, and beyond that by the mountains of the

Morea; whilst as a foreground there is Mount Hymettus,
with the convent rising out of the woods, and Pentelicus

on the right. This I think is the best view of Athens.
  IBeing again settled in Athens, set about finishing
my studies of the antiquities, and taking sketches of

the neighbourhood ; as the weather was very hot, being

now the middle of June, I started off one morning

before sunrise with Demetrius to take a sketch of the

Isthmus of Corinth and the surrounding scenery, and

Ifound an excellent position which commanded the
whole, near a marsh with a small lake in front.  was
so absorbed in my sketch that I did not think of the

Imalaria, which was very fatal in that place. The

sketch occupied about three hours, and although had

taken some breakfast in the open air, and Demetrius the

I Isame, we both felt very ill and returned to Athens, and

sent directly for the doctor, when found that had

the malaria fever in the form of an ague. Demetrius

was much worse, and towards night he became delirious,
ATHENS.                          105

Iand remained so for some time.  rallied in three or

four days, but remained very weak. Demetrius was

confined to the house for above a fortnight. Although

I could go about, still the fever clung to me more or
Iless, and could do very little. At this time, a sin
gular person, a Mr. Scott, a friend of Lord Byron's,

called upon me and offered every attention ; he was

a shy, kind, and well-informed man, living quite shut
up by himself, seldom stirring out till dusk, when he

was to be seen galloping round the walls of Athens

quite alone. There were also at Athens, Mr. Hodgetts

Foley, Mr. Beaumont, Mr. Waddington (the late) Dean
of Durham, and the Bev. Mr. Hanbury. The latter

was a tall, fine-looking man, of fair complexion, with

long light brown hair hanging over his shoulders, and

a long beard, altogether a very striking figure ; he was

perpetually thinking of firearms ; so that it might well

be said, that instead of being a man of peace, he was

a man of war.

  I was now introduced to the Maid of Athens, so

celebrated by Lord Byron; she certainly was a

handsome and elegant young woman, about twenty,

with a very pleasing manner and lively and intelli

gent in conversation. She had a younger sister, a very

agreeable person also, but not so handsome. They

lived with their parents, who made their house a

Ivery pleasant resort for strangers. By this time, the

beginning of July, was a great deal better, and was

recommended to take a sea voyage for change of air.

The above-named gentlemen had hired an Hydriote

brig to take a month's cruise amongst the islands, and

I agreed to join them. We accordingly started about

the end of the first week in July, the weather still

very hot. We left the Pirseus in the morning, and as

there was very little wind we were becalmed off

Cape Colonna, which forms the eastern promontory of
the Gulf of Athens. Here we cast anchor, lowered
100 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

a boat, and went on shore to visit the celebrated

temple.

   As we landed we were much struck by the appearance

of the beautiful ruin, perched upon the summit of the

promontory in solitary grandeur, and overlooking the

surrounding coasts and islands, altogether forming a

very imposing and charming scene.
   Whilst in
tiful temple,  the  midst of silent admiration  aotutt,hi"s   beau
               all  of a sudden Hanbury cried                There

goes an old hawk," and fired at it immediately. This
dispelled the charm, and we all burst out laughing.

Having finished our exploration, we returned on board

our vessel to dinner. A light breeze soon afterwards

sprang up; we lay-to for a short time off the island

of Syra, and the following morning got under way for

Paros, a fine land-locked port, which we reached early

in the day, and landed after breakfast. We then pro

ceeded to explore the quarries from which the cele

brated marble was extracted.

   These quarries are situated near the top of a hill,
about a mile distant from the port, with a steep

broken road for an approach. The ancients, instead
of opening out a good face, so that the quarries might
be worked to any extent with advantage, excavated
caverns in the side of the hill, and having arrived at
the good sound rock, cut it out by wedges and picks
in such masses as they required, so that the inside of

the quarry presented a long gallery from whence the

stone had been taken, worked in a very regular manner
in steps one above the other, without any appearance of

waste ; in fact, the rock is so solid that when worked

by pick and wedge no blasting is necessary; indeed,

if blasting were adopted, it would entail considerable
waste. At the same time, it appeared to me that if the

solid rock was bared from the surface and a good length
of face opened out, the pick-and-wedge system might be
worked to almost any extent, with much greater advan
TAROS-- NAXOS.  107

tage ; and if inclined planes with railways were made

to the port, and a proper embarking jetty, with cranes,
carried out into deep water, so as to enable large vessels
to come alongside at all times to receive their cargoes,
this fine marble might be quarried and exported at a

very moderate cost, infinitely below the price now
charged for Carrara marble. As the Parian marble
is of a beautiful white cream-colour, almost free from
veins, and of an even, close texture, the sale would be

immense and yield an excellent profit ; and considering
the enormous price of fine marble adapted for sculpture,
amounting to one and two guineas and upwards per
foot cube, according to the size of the block and fine
ness of the quality, it is astonishing that the value of

these quarries has not been recognized before, and
that capital has not been forthcoming to work them.
The harbour is spacious, with ample depth, and well
protected against all winds.

    The following day we devoted to the examination of

the celebrated stalactite caverns of Antiparos, a small
island on the north-west of Paros, and only separated
from it by a narrow strait. We accordingly went there

after breakfast, and being accompanied by a sufficient
number of guides with torches and wax lights, com

menced the exploration. We entered by a lofty arch,

and after proceeding some distance came to a mag

nificent chamber, from the roof of which depended the

most magnificent stalactites, many of them eight and
ten feet long, reflecting the light of our torches like

so many diamonds. From this hall issued several
galleries, some of which had not then been explored ;
 we pursued our way through all which had been
investigated, and returned, after a fatiguing walk, to
 the surface. This island, like that of Paros, is com

 posed of fine, close marble, which might be developed
 in the same manner with considerable profit. We
 next set sail for Naxos; and here the whole party
108 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

started in a native open boat to visit some ruins, which
turned out to be not in the least worth seeing. We were
first becalmed for many hours, and on our return were

overtaken by a violent storm, and only escaped, as the
entire coast was one wall of almost perpendicular rock,
by one of the sailors accidentally remembering the
vicinity of a small creek, into which the captain, a
brave and skilful man, managed to steer us through the
breakers. We ultimately returned to Naxos, after an
absence of thirty-nine hours, by far the greater part of
which we passed without food, as the ruins being only
eight miles from Naxos, it was considered a mere
morning's sail. The day after our return we invited the
English Consul, a Greek, and several of the principal
inhabitants to dinner, and had a jovial party, for the
Greeks like good cheer, and are certainly not water
drinkers. The wine of Naxos, of which a considerable

quantity is made, both for home and foreign consump
tion, is excellent ; it is chiefly white wine, resembling

a good deal brown sherry, and if well made is equally

good. Besides wine they export Velanc,a bark, wool,

figs, currants, and other articles.
    Having nothing further to see, we set sail from

Naxos, with a lively and lasting recollection of our
visit to the celebrated antiquities, and then steered for

 Scio, the ancient Chios, passing amongst numerous
islands, many of them very beautiful ; some were
covered with woods and verdure to the water's edge,
 others consisted of bold barren rocks rising perpen
 dicularly from the water to a great height, and termi
 nating in lofty peaks. The scene was ever changing,
 and we enjoyed views of wood, water, plain, and
mountain, combined in the most charming manner, and
 of endless variety.

   It was amusing also to see how well the Greek
sailors managed our ship. At this time of the

 year strong northerly winds prevail during the day,
                    MITYLENE.                     109

against which we had to beat. In tacking about and
manoeuvring the vessel they showed considerable skill

and activity.

Mitylene, where we next arrived, is a poor little

place, surrounded by steep, lofty hills covered with wood

almost to their summits. There is some trade of wine
Iand oil, and wood and bark.
                               was much amused by

a fight between my man Demetrius and a Turk who

insulted him ; fortunately they had neither firearms nor

Iknives, but they used their hands in the most clumsy

manner possible, and after a little time parted them

before they had done any mischief.
   We spent about three days in the island, which is

well worthy of a visit on account of its rich and beau

tiful scenery, and then returned to Scio, where our

I Iparty separated.                               was
       took lodgings, and rested a few days, for

Istill very weak, and liable to attacks occasionally from
the malaria fever.  had several enjoyable rides about
this island. A ridge of lofty hills, extending from

north to south, added greatly to the picturesqueness of

the scenery. The soil is extremely rich and fertile,
and a large quantity of excellent wine, besides oil, silk,

fruits, grain, wood, &c., is produced. A great trade is

carried on with different parts of the Mediterranean,

particularly Constantinople and Smyrna. Perhaps,
with the exception of Sicily, it is the richest island in

the Mediterranean, and has a great number of wealthy
merchants and proprietors. The port, which is formed

by a small creek, defended by two stone piers, con
tained numerous vessels, some of considerable size, and
bearing the flags of most European nations. The town

Iwas better and more substantially built than any

had hitherto seen, and there were some good bazaars,
rich with the wares of the East and with European
articles. The square in the centre was surrounded by

handsome cafe's and houses, and also one or two large
110 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF Silt JOHN RENNIE.

mosques and Greek churches. The island was governed
by a Turkish officer of rank, with a small body of
janissaries and cavalry. The following year, 1821, this
island suffered terribly during the Greek revolution,
when the inhabitants attempted to overcome the Turks,
who were too strong for them, and showed them no
mercy; many were massacred, and the island was

Idevastated. Having taken a sketch of the port, and

seen everything of interest, hired a Greek open boat,

Iand embarked with Demetrius and all our baggage

for Smyrna, where got tolerably comfortable lodgings
in a Greek house.

    Smyrna is situated at the south-eastern extremity of
the gulf of that name, and extends northward along
the coast for about a mile and a half. The shore of
the bay in front of the city is lined with a quay-wall,
formed partly of wood and partly of stone, with small
wooden jetties projecting from it at irregular intervals.
Between this quay-wall and the houses is a road, which
runs nearly along the whole sea-front. From this road
innumerable narrow, crooked streets lead to the different
parts of the town ; many of these are so narrow that
two horses can scarcely go abreast. The buildings for
the most part consist of two and three stories. The
bazaars were numerous, extensive, and rich, filled with
all the commodities of the East, such as rick silks, plain

and brocaded, shawls, jewellery, arms, leather articles,
and pipes of all kinds, rough iron and pottery ware,

besides tobacco, fruit, and provisions. All these bazaars

were laid out in different sections, with a particular
trade assigned to each, and were kept in tolerable
order; the Jews and Armenians were the bankers,
and had their counters or stalls, with offices behind,

where they transacted business to a large amount.

All the Consuls' houses were in front of the quay,

and were substantial stone buildings of considerable
extent, and, with the flags of the respective nations

which they represented, had a very imposing appear
              SMYRNA.                       Ill

ance. In front of the quay were moored at times

several hundreds of vessels of all nations, and the

immense number of boats and barges passing con

tinually between them and the shore, formed a most

busy and lively scene. There were several fine and

extensive mosques, which no Christian was ever per

mitted to enter ; also many Greek churches, with their

Igorgeously-bedaubed paintings representing innumer
able saints.  attended the Greek service at different

times, but generally came away anything but satisfied ;

their strong nasal tone in saying prayers, and their

indifferent music and singing, greatly disappointed me.

Towards the land the city was surrounded by a high

wall, and at each gate was a strong guard. At the

south end there was a kind of citadel on a hill, in

which the Governor resided, and about half a mile

from the city were the cemeteries, deeply embosomed
in cypress trees. Many of the tombs were very pretty,
of white, well-sculptured marble, with inscriptions from
the Koran engraved upon them, and they were taste

fully ornamented with garlands of flowers.

The exports from Smyrna are various, and its trade

with Europe is very extensive. The articles of export

are figs, raisins, silk, oil, bark, grain, &c. ; figs and

raisins, however, are the chief, and these are ex

ported to a vast amount, and certainly they are the

finest in the world. There are two crops, those which

are ripe about the end of July, which are mostly

consumed in the country and neighbourhood ; they are

most delicious, and extremely wholesome. The second

crop is ripe about the end of September. These are

gathered, dipped in water, then carefully packed in

boxes and exported, chiefly to England, France, and the

north of Europe, and by the time of their arrival they
are covered with a rich coating of crystallized sugar,

and are fit for use. At the season of shipping the figs,

Iwhich witnessed, the greatest activity is visible every

where--the producers selling, the merchants buying,
112 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

the packing-case makers splitting the wood and making
             boxes --the
u--pthtehe  men loading   packers carefully stowing the figs
                          them into lighters, by which they

are transported to the fast-sailing vessels waiting for

them, which  are   --getnheeraClloynscullisp'peorffisccehsoobneesresigeodf  about
120 to 170   tons
                                                                             with
numerous applicants for their clearance papers                              -- the

whole combined to form a most active and industrious

scene, not omitting the numberless dinners and social

Iparties at the different hotels and coffee-houses, which
are thronged with natives of all nations.  walked

Iabout and witnessed this busy scene with much delight
and satisfaction.         must not omit the melons, both

Isweet and water, and the grapes, which were the most

delicious ever tasted. The finest raisins are those

Icalled sultanas grown at Scala Nova, a small port to

the south-west of Smyrna, which visited. The grapes

from which they are made are especially delicious.
The town is a poor place as regards the buildings ;

Ibut, notwithstanding, there is a considerable amount

of wealth. When was there the town had recently

been visited by a severe attack of plague, and many
of the houses were shut up, all the inmates having

died, and, having no heirs, the property belonged to

the Government.

  Whilst I was at Smyrna the British Consul was Mr.

Werry, a fine old gentleman of about sixty-five, with

considerable vigour and talent, just the man for the

place. All British subjects were under his protection,

amongst whom were a considerable number from the
Ionian Islands, who were the most troublesome and

daring vagabonds, committing all sorts of crimes, and

mixed up with every row in the place; these rows

daily occurred, and bloodshed and murder not unfre-

quently was the consequence. Old Werry was the
arbiter, and delivered his judgments with great im

partiality and justice. The Turks also were very
             SMYRNA.     113

troublesome, and frequently attempted acts of great

barbarity. Werry, however, was equal to the occa

sion, and at such times went direct to the Governor

and claimed an audience ; he was at once admitted

and seated at the head of the divan ; then he claimed
protection for his British subjects; and whenever the

Governor demurred, Werry drew his sword, threw his

hat down on the floor, and threatened him with a

British frigate to blow up the town before his eyes.
The Governor would try to pacify him by offering

pipes and coffee, and soothing words, which Werry
treated with contempt, and nothing would do but re

leasing the prisoners, which was soon effected. Then
Werry strode off in triumph, scarcely condescending

to return the Governor's salute. The Turks looked

upon him as a madman ; but they have always enter

tained the greatest respect for him, and allowed him

to have his way, invariably calling him the mad

Consul. Nevertheless, he was a most kind and worthy

man, greatly respected and liked by his countrymen,
the other consuls, and by the whole population. He

received me with the greatest kindness and hospitality.

I was a frequent visitor at his house, both in town and

at his country seat, Bridjar, about nine miles distant to

Ithe south-east.     made acquaintance with my

   Whilst at Smyrna

countryman, Mr. (afterwards Professor) Donaldson, a
M. Parke, and another French architect, who had just

returned to Smyrna after a very successful exploration

of some of the most remarkable ruins of the ancient

cities of Asia Minor, and their portfolios were filled

with drawings of these most interesting relics of
Iantiquity.
             passed several happy days in their com

pany, and Donaldson most kindly made out for me a

Imap by which 1 might be enabled to visit these re

markable ruins; therefore determined to follow it out

                      i
114 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

as nearly as possible without delay, and took leave of
them with many thanks.

I On the next day, having obtained the usual firman,
   started, in company with my faithful servant De
metrius, to explore some of the ruins of Ionia, with a
Turkish surgee, or guide, a janissary, and a couple of
baggage horses, leaving my heavy baggage at Smyrna.
After passing through a wild, rich, and almost unculti
vated country, we reached Aiasolok, on the Meander,
near the ruins of Ephesus, in the evening, and took up
our quarters in a Turkish caravanserai. Demetrius
soon prepared a good supper, laid our mattresses, and
we both slept soundly until the morning. Every inmate

Iwas up transacting his business soon after daybreak,

and at once sallied forth to examine tbe ruins of
Ephesus. This celebrated city was situated on the left
bank of the Meander, at the base of an elevated rido-e
of hills. The only remains which we could distinctly
make out was the amphitheatre, of the rest little could
be discovered ; but numerous fragments of columns,
cornices, blocks of masonry, pottery, brickwork, &c,

Ilay scattered about. I made a sketch of the whole from

the best place could find. The ruins of Ephesus
formed the foreground, with the Meander and its

numerous windings and the marshy valley flanked by
the mountains on each side, whilst in the background
was the miserable town of Aiasolok, with its fortress
and mosque on a conical hill above backed by wild
range of mountains of considerable elevation, which
completed the view. The scene was most picturesque,
replete with solitary grandeur and desolation. The
stillness was something remarkable; nothing was seen
moving, except at rare intervals long line of camels
laden with merchandise, led by their guide, smoking his
pipe, and mounted on donkey; or here and there

    solitary heron fishing amongst the reeds of the
Meander, and flocks of wild ducks, which took to
a
                                              a
                                                                 a
                                                              it,
                                                                                              a
             EPHESUS.        115

flight at the slightest disturbance. It was singular

and melancholy to remark the ruins of the three most

celebrated of the Churches of the world before me,

namely, those of the ancient Greeks, Romans, and

IChristians, dominated over by the Mahometan mosque.
  remained alone lost in contemplating this solemn and

desolate scene for two or three hours, reflecting upon

the vicissitudes and instability of human grandeur, and

Iwalked slowly back to the caravanserai at Aiasolok,

where took my breakfast, and then started on my

journey. We slowly wound our way through the Pass
between the mountains at the back of Aiasolok, and

descended into the plain of the ancient Magnesia, the

site of one of the seven Churches, through which

two streams flow sluggishly to the sea, and reached

Ithe ruins about a couple of hours before sunset.
Ipicketed my horse here whilst examined the ruins,

Iand sent Demetrius forward with the other horses and
baggage to a village, where  proposed to pass the

night, ordering Demetrius to have supper ready by

my arrival.

   The principal building is the hippodrome, which

was tolerably perfect, and I took some pains to measure

it accurately, which occupied me about two hours.
There was nothing else worthy of remark, although

Ithere were numerous fragments of buildings scattered
around.      met a Turkish Aga, handsomely accoutred

and well mounted, attended by a servant, who watched

Imy movements with considerable attention, and politely

accosted me. Having finished my work, mounted
and galloped off to the place of my rendezvous as

Iquickly as possible. Passing through the adjacent

forest observed something like hammocks slung to

Ithe trees about 10 or 12 feet from the ground ; these,
   learned, were the sleeping places of the shepherds

who attended their flocks in the neighbourhood, and as

there were no habitations near, they slept in these
                                                                I2
116 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

hammocks to keep themselves out of the influence of

Ithe malaria, which is very fatal in these parts.
   About sunset reached my destination, which was

situated at the head of a valley surrounded by lofty moun
tains. There was a cluster of miserable mud huts, but

no place fit to sleep in, so Demetrius was obliged to take
possession of an open shed, with a bare mud hut adjoin
ing, in which he placed the baggage, spread my
mattress in the shed, and laid out the table attached to

my canteen in the open air in front, upon which he
had got ready a tolerably good supper. This canteen,
it should be mentioned, was a very smart affair ; all the
utensils were plated on the outside and gilt on the

inside, and, being quite new, had a very stylish and

Iattractive appearance : it was much finer than

wanted, and had been sent out from England by my

I Ibrother. No sooner had sat down to supper, than

was surrounded by a considerable number of Kurds,

wild-looking fellows, armed to the teeth, who had come

from their own countryr with their flocks, for the rich
pasture which this country afforded. Their encamp

ment was close by. They appeared very friendly, and
Iadmired my turn-out with great satisfaction, thinking,
no doubt, that it was real gold and silver.  treated

them very courteously, gave them wine, coffee, and

Itobacco, for which they appeared very thankful, and

we parted, as thought, excellent friends. It was a fine

summer evening, and soon after became dark. The

Kurds retired with many thanks, and being tired I

lay down for the night on my mattress without taking
off my clothes, whilst Demetrius and the other servants
were in front, and the horses picketed before them,

having only their girths slackened, so that we were

Iready for a start at any alarm. examined my pistols,

Imy men did the same, and we all retired ; but

was very restless and feverish, and could not sleep,

although excessively weary. I was continually roused
                   KURDS.                                 117

by the barking of the great mastiffs which were

kept by the shepherds to drive off the wolves and
Ipanthers in the vicinity. At last, towards midnight, I
fell fast asleep.  awoke all of a sudden to find two

fierce-looking Kurds by my side, one with a pistol

close to my head, the other flaring a lighted torch in

Imy face, with one hand thrust under my pillow, to
steal my purse and valuables.  sat up directly and

secured my pistols; seeing this, the fellow with the

pulled the trigger,      but   fifroerdt.unaItetlhyinkit
Ipistol                once                               Ionhlyit

flashed
in the pan.        at

him somewhere, for he uttered a loud cry, and in

stantly took to flight with his companion. My men

awoke at the noise, jumped up directly, and fired

also. By this time we were surrounded by the Kurds,

and had a hand-to-hand fight for a few minutes, when
I called to my men to mount and gallop off as quickly
Ias possible.
                   did the same, and off we went at full

speed, leaving the baggage behind. We could do no

other, for by this time the whole tribe was on the

alert; they came running to the help of their com

panions, and commenced firing at us. Fortunately
it was hardly daylight, and they could not see us

clearly. In order to avoid the shots that whistled

past us, we crouched down upon our saddles, and soon

got out of their reach. They did not follow us, either

being deterred by the stout resistance we had made, or

being satisfied with the booty which they had got. To

have remained longer would have been madness, for we

should soon have been overpowered, and probably all

murdered, as there were at least thirty or forty of them,

and we were only five. We never pulled bridle until we

had made about six or eight miles ; it was then broad

daylight, and the sun was just rising above the

horizon ; we continued, however, at a smart pace, pass

ing through a rich and partially cultivated valley,

until, about seven o'clock in the morning, we reached a
lib AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

small town, where the Aga, or Turkish Governor of

the district resided. Here we stopped at the cara
vanserai, tolerably tired with our morning's ride of

about seventeen miles, and heartily thankful for our

providential escape. After a good wash and breakfast,

I sent my janissary, a gallant fellow, to demand an
Iaudience of the Aga, which he granted at midday.

went accordingly, showed my firman, and then related

my story by means of an interpreter. The Aga was a

fine-looking man, about forty, surrounded by his divan

and a number of well-armed Tartars and guards. He

listened to my tale with the utmost gravity and atten

Ition, and then burst out into a violent rage at the

indignity which had suffered, and said that such an

insult to an English gentleman had never occurred

before in his district, and he would lose no time in

bringing the offenders to justice. He was most par
ticular in inquiring as to the place where the offence

had occurred, and the number and description of my

assailants, and then ordered a strong body of well-

armed and well-mounted Tartars to the place, with

strict orders to bring them to him immediately ; in the

meantime he ordered coffee and pipes to be served, and
Ioffered me any money
I Iwhere                   required. He also asked me
was going.
                           told him that I was going

southwards for two or three days. He then said that

upon my return he should be happy to see me again,
when he would have all the culprits in custody for

Ime, and if could identify them he would have their
Iheads taken off directly. took my leave, with many

thanks for his courtesy ; to which he replied, with the

Igreatest civility, that he was too happy to be of any
service to an Englishman.  left soon afterwards, and

crossed another mountain ridge, passing through a wild,

desolate country, and descended into a fertile valley,

through which a small river wound its tortuous course.

On the way I examined the ruins of the ancient Priene,
            PRIENE-- MILETUS.                     119

seated on a hill on the right side of the valley. Here I

saw considerable remains of some temples of the Ionic
order, besides the relics of numerous other buildings,

which it was very difficult to define. This city was

surrounded by a strong wall of massive masonry, con

siderable remains of which were visible. We crossed

the river by a ford, and took up our quarters for the

night amongst the ruins of Miletus. There were only
a few scattered wretched hovels in the vicinity, but

Inone of them fit for our accommodation ; therefore

Ipreferred the open air, and determined to bivouac

amongst the ruins ; as had already provided myself

Iand my people with mattresses and coverlets, and a

good supply of provisions, felt myself comfortable

and independent. I was roused about daybreak by

something tugging hard at my pillow ; upon jumping
Iup descried a large wolf close by, with several more
Inear him.
            immediately laid hold of a stout stick, and

dealt him a heavy blow on the head. This aroused

Demetrius and the servants, who fired several shots at

the other wolves, and they all scampered off as quickly

Ias possible, so that we had no further molestation.

   Early in the morning set about examining the

ruins, of which there were but few ; the principal was

Ithe theatre, but even of this, except some massive
walls, there was little remaining.  made a sketch,

with the Lake Bofi and the mountains behind it for

a background, the whole forming a very beautiful
picture. We then went on to Yirondi, which we
reached about four o'clock in the afternoon, and got

comfortable quarters in the caravanserai. The next

morning I proceeded to examine the ruins of the

celebrated Temple of Apollo Didymseus. This is one

of the largest and most magnificent specimens of the

Ionic order, and well worthy of the attention of  Ievwearys
traveller who takes an interest in architecture.

much pleased with and instructed by it. Of the front
120 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN REXNIE.

columns several were still standing, and numerous
fragmentary blocks of pillars, entablature, pediment,

and substructure lay scattered all around, the whole

being of the most elaborate workmanship. When entire

it must have been a very magnificent work of art, as

Ithe remains evidently show.               determined to

   After finishing my examination,

Ireturn to Smyrna as quickly as possible, having much
to do before my tour was completed.        accordingly

Istarted soon after midday, although the weather was

very hot, and the next day sent my janissary to
request an audience of the Aga, which he granted me
at midday. He then said that he had captured all
the Kurds, and ordered them to be brought from the

prison. Accordingly the whole of them, amounting
Ito about thirty in number, were produced, and marched

before me slowly, when the Aga asked me if could
Irecognize any of them, in which case he would take
care that justice should be administered.  was pretty

        what  this justice
       would  be taken off
well

Itheir
aware                       iwfoIurldecobge,nizneadmethlye,m.that
heads

certainly remembered several of their faces, but having
Ibeen robbed only of a few articles, worth about eighty

pounds, did not consider that the punishment of death

could be put in comparison with my loss, although it is

Itrue they would have murdered me if they could.

therefore resolved to save them, as they had already
suffered sufficiently by being confined in a miserable

Idungeon with scarcely any food for four days. They

were accordingly discharged, having been, as under
stood, pretty well punished, in addition to their

imprisonment, by heavy fines, and perhaps sundry
stripes into the bargain, so that it was not likely that
Ithey would attack an Englishman again. The Tartars

had recovered several of my lost things ; for this made

Ithem a handsome acknowledgment, with which they
were much pleased, and gave me many thanks.  also
                      BROUSSA.              121

rendered my best thanks to the Aga, and we parted

upon the most amicable terms.

  IHaving returned to Smyrna, there met my friend
IScott, whom had previously known at Athens, and

we resolved to proceed at once to Constantinople by

land. The first night we reached the modern Mag

nesia, a large town situated on a plain, surrounded by

rude crenellated walls, inhabited chiefly by a Turkish

population, and containing nothing worthy of remark.

The following morning we proceeded through an open

undulating country, very fertile, but, as usual, only

partially cultivated. Here and there were extensive

plains, some only tenanted by shepherds tending their
large flocks of goats, cattle, and sheep, others growing

cotton, maize, corn, beans, and tobacco, occasionally

interspersed with vineyards ; the inhabitants looked

poor and miserable, and the villages and towns wore

the same appearance.

   After a long, hard day's ride of eighteen hours,
we came in sight of Broussa, the ancient capital of the

Turks. The surrounding country was rich and beau

tiful, and covered with luxurious gardens, intermixed

with comfortable villas and houses *, the city, with its
numerous mosques and towering minarets, lay in the

foreground ; whilst the magnificent Mount Olympus,

above 7000 feet high, rearing his head above the

clouds, formed a noble background. When within a

mile of the city I felt very tired and thirsty. Just then

a countryman approached, and offered us some bunches

Iof magnificent grapes, which accepted with much
Igratification, and gave him a handsome present.

devoured them voraciously. We reached the caravan

Iserai at sunset, and as there were a great number of
travellers, we got but poor accommodation.  awoke

about three in the morning with a violent diarrhoea,

Iwhich continually increased, until became so ex
Ihausted that could scarcely move. It turned out
122 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Ito be dysentery, and my friends considered that it must

end fatally. Before leaving England had consulted

my friend, the late distinguished Dr. James Johnson,

as to what was to be done under similar circum

Istances, and he recommended large doses of calomel as
the only and best means of cure.  had provided my

Iself with this, and took it accordingly, with the

assistance of which rallied considerably, and we then

determined to proceed at once to Mondania, on the
shores of the Sea of Marmora, where we should find

much better accommodation. Off, therefore, we went,

Iwithout being able to see anything further of the
beauties of Broussa.  was much fatigued with the

journey, and immediately after our arrival took to my

Ibed. Here the dysentery came on more violently than
ever.  again had recourse to a large dose of calomel,

and ordered Demetrius to get some chicken broth as

I Isoon as possible. This the good fellow got ready with
out delay.  swallowed as much as could, and then
Ifell back on my mattress perfectly exhausted.
                                                was

delirious for four or five hours ; but at the end of that

Itime broke out into a violent perspiration ; the calomel
Ihad done its work effectually, and became conscious

and tranquil, although very weak. The disease, how

Iever, had been arrested, and recovered rapidly.

  I reached Constantinople at last by sea, and after a
Iday or two of repose regained my strength and sallied

Iforth with a janissary to examine the Moslem capital.

  first paid a visit to our ambassador, Mr. Frere. He

received me most kindly, and asked me to dinner the

Inext day. The entertainment was sumptuous, and

spent a delightful evening. I was afterwards fre

quently invited to this most hospitable house, and

always received the same kind attention, ever returning
from it both amused and instructed. Mr. Frere was a

very accomplished, unassuming gentleman, ever ready

to protect his countrymen ; he discharged his onerous
             CONSTANTINOPLE.     123

duties in such a manner as to gain the respect of the
Turks (which was very difficult in those days), as well
as that of the corps diplomatique and foreigners of
Ievery nation, and the respect and affection of his own
countrymen.  also frequently visited the hospitable

house of our worthy and most excellent Consul, General

Cartwright. He was a man above the common order,

and no one was better calculated to deal with the

Turks ; frank, open, courageous, honest, and decided,

understanding thoroughly the people he had to deal

with, and never flinching from his duties, firmly

upholding his countrymen when right, but no less

inflexible in refusing his support when wrong. He

was hospitable and sociable to a degree, yet withal

never neglected the least of his duties, and was uni

versally respected and beloved.

   Constantinople has been often described, and is now

so well known that I need not weary my reader with

Iany detailed description. But as was there at a time

when the reforms of the Sultan Mahmoud had not

long commenced; when the janissaries were still in

existence ; when the old Turkish bigotry, insolence, and

fanaticism was at its height ; when the fierce vigour

which had formerly carried out its conquests was

nearly extinct, and European ideas and civilization had
not yet dawned ; when, in short, the Government was
most corrupt, and the whole Turkish population sunk

in indolence and sensuality, a few rough notes of what

I then saw may perhaps not be unacceptable.

Amongst the sights during my short stay was the

marriage of one of the Sultan's daughters, which was

made the occasion of great fetes, and amongst others a

grand tournament or display of djerid. This consisted

of a number of horsemen extremely well ; mounted,

each armed with a short blunted dart, which they

hurled at one another, and those who received the

greatest number of hits were declared to be losers
 124 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

 The game was very exciting, and the display of horse
manship and the activity and skill of the riders were
worthy of the highest admiration.

    There was also another sight equally new and beau
tiful, the sultan proceeding in state to the mosque of

St. Sophia during the Bairam. It was a very imposing

spectacle, all the actors in it being clothed in the
ancient picturesque costume -- long flowing robes of
endless variety of brilliant colours, furs, and turbans of
every shape, those worn by the Sultan and his great
officers mounted in gold and silver and studded with
precious stones. The Sultan's body guard consisted of
about one hundred fine-looking men wearing dresses
of the most brilliant colours, richly ornamented with
gold embroidery, and having on their heads helmets of
finely polished brass, surmounted by a crescent of the
same metal, being three to four feet long, on the top of
which were fixed plumes of the finest white ostrich
feathers, flowing on all sides. The Sultan, clothed in
a splendid dark sable pelisse, with a green turban
ornamented with the plumes of a bird of paradise, set
in a most costly diamond aigrette, rode in the midst
of them, mounted on a magnificent pure white Arabian
charger, covered with housings richly embroidered with
gold. He was a very handsome, stern, dignified-
looking man, about fifty, with sharp, piercing black
eyes, moustache, and beard ; his nose short and well
developed, and a medium-sized, well-defined mouth ;
his whole appearance was very stately, grave, and
solemn, expressing majesty, firmness, and courage. As

the procession moved slowly, silently, and majestically
along, through a dense mass of spectators, everyone
was impressed with awe and admiration, and certainly
it was one of the most unique and finest sights of the

Ikind had ever witnessed. I afterwards saw a review

of several thousand of the Ottoman troops, consisting
of infantry, cavalry, and artillery. These, though in-
CONSTANTINOPLE.            125

ferior in discipline and mechanical contrivances to
European armies, nevertheless expressed a degree of
fierce and enthusiastic courage, mixed with a thorough
contempt of Christians, which inspired them with the
confidence that they could overwhelm all their enemies,

and plant the crescent over the cross with triumphant

success.

   Constantinople proper was inhabited chiefly by Turks

imbued with the most bigoted hatred and contempt
for Christians, and it was attended with not a little

Idanger to go amongst them. As walked boldly
Ialong was frequently saluted by fierce scowls and

curses loud and deep, and sometimes with a small
shower of stones, which but for the presence of the

janissary, whom they feared, might have been at

tended with serious consequences. These janissaries,
a certain number of whom were attached to every

embassy for their protection, were called pig-keepers
by their comrades, who considered them as an inferior

class. The streets for the most part were narrow,

crooked, and dirty to a degree ; here and there was a

fine stone mansion, inhabited by some Turkish grandee,

but this presented only a dead stone wall to the street.
IThe population of the city generally looked poor,
miserable, and oppressed.  tried to visit the mosques,

but the fanaticism of the Ottomans was so great at

that time that no Christian was permitted to enter,

and I was more than once, when trying to penetrate

the outer court of one of them, driven away by a
shower of stones. On the arrival of a fresh ambassador

from any Christian court a special firman, allowing
him to visit the mosques, was issued, when the dif
ferent strangers in Constantinople at the time were
allowed to accompany him. The ambassador and suite

on these occasions were always accompanied by a

strong guard of janissaries, for protection. It hap

pened that a little time previous to my visit the new
126 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Russian ambassador, Count Stroganoff, arrived, and

obtained a special firman to visit the mosques, when
he was accompanied by two or three hundred of his

own countrymen and other strangers, attended by a
strong guard of janissaries. Whilst in one of these
edifices, a Frenchman, it is said, spat upon the pave

ment; immediately a cry of horror was uttered by

the priests and assistants, the mosque was defiled ;

the alarm was raised, which spread like wildfire, and

the place was quickly surrounded by a vast multitude

of angry Turks, many of whom rushed into the mosque,

shouting for vengeance on the infidels who had dese

crated their temple, and attacking them with the

most savage ferocity. The ambassador and his fol

lowers were obliged to defend themselves and fight for

their lives. The doors were shut, and there they were

obliged to remain until the Government sent another

strong body of janissaries to rescue them from their

perilous situation, which they did with the greatest

difficulty ; and whilst they were escorted back through

the streets, they were assailed with yells, curses, and

missiles of every description ; many were seriously

hurt, and they had some difficulty in escaping with

their lives.

  IAt Bouyukdere spent several days at a comfortable

Greek hotel, and was much amused at seeing two or

three grave Turks enter the hotel one evening and

engage a private room. For a time everything went

on quietly. Then came a most tremendous noise, and

shouts of all kinds; in fact, they were getting very

drunk. Then all was silent, and I imagined they were

senseless; but shortly after, to my great surprise, they

Isallied forth and entered their boat apparently quite

sober. afterwards asked the Greek waiter whether the
                                                                            He
wreaptleierdt,helayuhgahdingd,ru"nkNoha; dthreenydehraedd  them so noisy.  rum
                                                           two bottles of
CONSTANTINOPLE.  127

apiece." He said, further, that it was their constant

practice, especially during the Ramadan, to go prowl
ing about in search of some quiet place where they
might indulge. Knowing this, some of the proprietors
of Greek inns, after closing the front door, left a private
one open, and allowed none but Turks to enter, not
even appearing themselves when they did. The Turks,
seeing the coast clear, would enter, and presently find
a room in which was a table covered with good things,
both to eat and drink, ' whereupon they helped them

selves liberally, and after leaving a handsome donation
on the table, walked out as quietly as they came in,
satisfied with having cheated their religion and satis
fied their appetites without anyone being the wiser.

   Constantinople is supplied with water from five
reservoirs, situated on the western base of the Little

Balkan Mountains, and communicating with the city

by stone conduits. They were originally built by the
Byzantine emperors, and their preservation was en

forced by repeated imperial edicts, some of which are
still preserved in the archives of Constantinople; a
heavy fine was imposed, amounting to a pound of gold
for every ounce of water taken from these reservoirs
by any individual without express permission. The
water for Pera is supplied from the southern reservoirs,
near Bagtche, by means of a conduit, upon which are

placed at certain intervals hollow stone columns, called
sous terrasi, which rise to the level of the source from
which the water is taken ; the water in the conduit

rises up these pillars nearly to the same level, and

thus acts as a safety valve, overcoming the friction of
the water in the conduit, forcing it forward to the

level required at Pera, and so relieving the pressure
upon the upper surface of the conduit, which other
wise would be blown up through such a long line,
had it not a vent to relieve the pressure. This in
128 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

genions idea was the invention of the Turks, and
was adopted for the purpose of saving the expense of
the lofty stone aqueducts used by the' Romans and
their successors. Some expedient of this kind became

inevitable, as they had no iron pipes large or strong

enough. In modern times a similar device, called the

stand-pipe, is occasionally employed to relieve the

pumping engines ; but such is not necessary along the
line of the conduit, because the material of the con
duit is made of cast iron of such dimensions that it

is strong enough to more than amply resist the pres
sure of the highest column of water which it may be

necessary to employ.
   The whole of the sides of the mountains where the

Ireservoirs are placed used formerly to be covered with

dense woods, and when visited the reservoirs in Octo

ber, 1820, nothing could be more beautiful ; but after
the massacre of the janissaries, about a year and a half

subsequent to my visit, a remnant took possession of the

forest, and committed intolerable acts of brigandage,
until the Ottoman Government, thoroughly roused,

surrounded the entire forest with troops, and destroyed
it and its inmates together. There is also a fine aque

duct, but there can be very little doubt that proper
means are not taken during the rainy season to pre

Ifserve and store the water nature then places at their
disposal.  this were done, the serious evil of drought

would be avoided ; and means are now being taken to
ensure a more constant and better supply. This scarcity
of water, for the same reason, has been felt in London

and other great cities. We shall continue to suffer
from these droughts until men come to understand

that only a certain and known quantity of water
falls upon the earth, and that at certain periods;
and that it is necessary to store the surplus waters to
supply the deficiency of the dry season. This great truth

is fortunately now beginning to be fully appreciated
                    BRIDGES OF XERXES.               129

in the civilized world, and it is to be hoped that we

Ishall no longer hear the cry of scarcity of water.
   On leaving Constantinople took passage in a native

vessel for Alexandria. Passing down the Hellespont,

Iat its narrowest point remarked the positions selected

by Xerxes for erecting his famous double bridge, or

rather two bridges, one taking a north-west and the

other a north-easterly direction. An ancient author,

Polyasnus, says " that they connected together a vast

number of ships of different kinds--some long vessels of
fifty oars, others three-banked galleys-- to the number

of three hundred and sixty, on the side towards the

Euxine Sea, and three hundred and thirteen on that

of the Hellespont. The former of these were placed

transversely ; but the latter, to diminish the strain
upon the cables, in the direction of the current.

When these vessels were firmly fastened to each other,

tshtreeyngwther--e   secured on each    side by   anchors of great
                    on the upper side,   towards  the winds which

set in from the Euxine; on the lower side, towards

the iEgean Sea, on account of the south and south-east

winds. They left, however, openings in three places

sufficient to afford a passage for the light vessels which

might have occasion to sail into the Euxine or from it.

Having done this, they extended cables from the

shore, stretching them upon large capstans of wood.
For this purpose they did not employ a number of

separate cables, but united two of white flax with two

of byblos. These were alike in thickness, and appa
rently so in goodness; but those of flax were in pro

portion much the more solid, weighing not less than

a talent to every cubit. When the passage was thus
secured, they sawed out rafters of wood, making their

length equal to the space required for the bridge.
These they laid in order across upon the extended

cables, and then bound them fast together. They

next brought unwrought wood, which they placed

                                                  K
130 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

very regularly upon the rafters. Over all they threw
earth, which they raised to a proper height, and
finished the whole by a fence on each side, that the
horses and other beasts of burthen might not be

terrified by looking down upon the sea."
   This bridge of boats, for such it may be properly

cmaolldeedr,ns.reseTmhbeleadddmitaiotnerioaflltyhethsoussepecnosinosntruccatbeldes,bwy hitchhe
connected both ends of the bridge with the shore, must
have contributed greatly to its strength. The floating
bridges used in modern warfare, however, have this
advantage over those constructed by the ancients (of
which that devised by Xerxes was a very favourable
specimen) ; the boats or pontoons upon which such
bridges are now erected are specially constructed for

the purpose, and an army on the march can carry these
pontoons, like other baggage, and when necessary a
bridge can be built in a very short time. When the

 army has passed the river the bridge can readily be
 taken to pieces and the materials transported else

where, to serve the same purpose again. An enemy

 pursuing, unless provided with similar appliances for
 constructing a bridge, would find his farther progress
 barred ; but in the floating bridges used by the
 ancients it was possible for the pursued to erect a
 bridge that would be used also by their pursuers. The
 floating bridge by which Darius crossed the Bosphorus
 is said to have been similar to that contrived by
 Xerxes, although no precise record exists to enable
 us to ascertain exactly how it was fashioned. Alex

 ander adopted a different course; taking advantage
 of such vessels as he could obtain on the spot, by
 rowing or sailing he crossed the particular river or
 strait which opposed his march. We have a remark
 able example of a floating bridge on the river Douro
  opposite to Oporto, but the bridge erected by Xerxes
         ALEXANDRIA.                                                                       131

seems rather to have resembled that thrown over the

A dour.

The only incident that occurred on our voyage to
Alexandria was furnished by a Turkish Aga, one of

the passengers, who came on board in considerable
state. His attendants spread his carpet on deck, that

he might attend to his devotions. However, the sea

was so rough that directly he appeared on deck he

lost his balance and rolled over and over, which greatly

hurt his dignity. He was very much enraged, and, to

revenge himself, immediately set to work belabouring

the unfortunate captain with his cane, saying that it

was entirely his fault for giving them a foul wind,

Ithough all the time it was blowing most favourably,
though rather too fresh for the Aga's comfort.                                             burst

out laughing, but soon checking myself, interceded

for the poor captain and got him off, while the Aga

retired to his cabin and delivered himself over to sea

sickness.

   The situation chosen for the city of Alexandria,

which Alexander the Great founded as the emporium
of the Mediterranean after the destruction of Tyre,
was peculiarly favourable, for the seven mouths of the

Nile at that time existing were ill adapted for the safe
passage of large vessels ; all of them were more or less

obstructed by bars, upon which during the stormy
seasons there was a heavy surf, so that it was extremely

dangerous to attempt their navigation. Alexander

therefore resolved to adopt a situation totally indepen
dent of the Nile, and accordingly selected Alexandria,
as being the farthest point from the mouths of that
river, and the least affected by the alluvium brought

down by and that which carried along the shore
by the western littoral current.

   At the time the present situation was selected

there was small island not far from the shore. This
         a it,
                                          is

                                                                    K

                                                                                        2
132 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

island he connected with the mainland by means of
an embankment faced with masonry, thus forming a
double harbour, namely, one on the eastern side, which

was protected by the promontory bounding the bay ;
and one on the western side, protected by a reef of
rocks running in a westerly direction from the original
island, and the projecting point of the bay to the west,
so that the western harbour was tolerably well shielded
on all sides, with the exception of the entrances be
tween the rocks on the north ; but through these only
a comparatively small amount of swell can penetrate.

It contains space for all the vessels that are likely to

frequent this port, and the accommodation may be
further increased, to almost any extent required, by

making docks inland. It is true that in order to

connect this port with the Nile above the bars and
the interior country, a canal or other means of com

munication was requisite. A canal at that time was

the only effectual method known, and this was accord
ingly adopted, and was made to the Canopic branch
of the Nile, skirting along the shores of the Lake
Mareotis for a considerable distance ; but it was fre
quently filled up by the sand blown in from the desert
and the adjacent shores. This sand was as constantly
removed, and the communication between Alexandria

and the Nile more or less imperfectly preserved. In
1851 the Pacha completed a line of railway between
Alexandria and Cairo, and thus got rid of the uncer
tainty and expense of maintaining the canal and the
river navigation. This railway was made under the
direction of the late eminent engineer, Mr. Robert

Stephenson, and now a perfect and economical commu
nication is kept up by this means between Alexandria,
Cairo, and the interior.

    The eastern harbour of Alexandria, the water being
very shallow, is now scarcely used except for the small
coasting vessels ; but it does not appear that in either
MEHEMET ALI.                           133

the eastern or western harbours there is any material

Itendency to shoal.
    When was there, Alexandria, although possessing

considerable trade, was but a poor place compared to
the present city, and all the business of shipping,
transhipping, and storing of goods was carried on in a

very rude and costly manner, which is now materially

changed for the better.
   Besides Pompey's Pillar, the other important relic is

Cleopatra's Needle, then as now lying prostrate. This
needle was given to the British army, and a large sub

scription, amounting it is said to about 20,000., was
raised to transport it to England, and there to erect it

in some conspicuous place in the metropolis, as a trophy
of the signal success of the British army. For some

reason or other, never properly explained, this has

never been done, although seventy years have elapsed
Isince the money was subscribed. When
                                       returned
Ifrom Upper Egypt, in the month of March, 1821,
found that the English Government, after repeated
applications, had sent the ' Spry,' sloop of war, com
manded by Captain Boswell, with my old friend and

schoolfellow, Captain Wright, of the Royal Engineers,

to report upon the cost, and the best plan for bringing
Cleopatra's Needle to England ; but this all ended in

nothing being done, although Captain Wright's report

Iwas very favourable, both as to the cost and feasibility.

   On reaching Cairo had an audience with the cele
brated or notorious pasha, Mehemet Ali. He received

Ime with great dignity and civility, and said that the

English were his best friends, upon which could not
help saying to myself, Thank God we are not his sub
jects ! He was no doubt a very remarkable man --cool,
determined, able, and courageous. He reduced the

turbulent rulers and Bedouin tribes of Egypt to sub

jection, and procured a degree of tranquillity and peace
for the oppressed inhabitants which they had not en
134 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

joyed for many generations ; and if he plundered them

himself, he would allow no one else to do so. Never

theless, one cannot hut be horrified at the atrocities

with which all this was accompanied and accomplished.

While here I saw a few Mamelukes who had escaped

Ithe massacre of 1809, and who were permitted to reside
here.  was much struck by their martial air, their

richly-embroidered costumes, and superbly mounted

pistols and scimitars. As a body they were nearly

exterminated, the survivors being allowed to subsist on

the little property saved from the wreck. Egypt, like

Constantinople, has since been so well described, and is

now so well known (though at that time my journey

to the second cataract was deemed extraordinary),

that it is unnecessary for me to go over the same

Iground.
      hired a khange, or small boat, manned by a reis, or

captain, and eight rowers, with a tolerably comfortable

Iraised cabin behind, divided into two parts, in neither
of which, however, could  stand upright. But by
this time I had become pretty well accustomed to

the usages of the country, and my limbs being

tolerably supple, I did not much mind it. I engaged
the khange at so much per month, I finding provisions

for myself and servants, the reis agreeing to do the

same for himself and his crew. Having stocked my

boat with everything we were likely to require for

Ifour months, embarked at Bouloe, accompanied by

my servant Demetrius and a janissary. We came to

anchor every night near the most convenient village,

and started next morning soon after daybreak. At

midday I halted for an hour, and sometimes more, in

Iorder to allow the captain and his crew to take their

dinner comfortably, whilst and my servants took

ours. When the wind was unfavourable the crew were

obliged to row or track the boat against the current ;

at such times I used to land and walk along the bank,
                        THE NILE.                    135

I Igun in hand, exploring the adjacent antiquities or the

surrounding country ; and found that could easily
keep pace with the boat. Where there was any object

Iparticularly worthy of remark, had the boat moored
I Ias near to the bank as could, whilst went ashore,
Iexamined, sketched, and measured the objects in ques

tion at my leisure, and in this way took measurements

of all the edifices of any note. When there were none,
I used to indulge
                   in   a sporting   excursion, and  found
ample amusement.         not only   procured many    inter
                     I

esting objects of natural history, but shot numerous wild

fowl, that were a very welcome addition to my table.

IThus passed a very agreeable time. Never idle for

a moment -- always employed, either for instruction or

Iamusement; and my whole time was my own.

carried my house with me ; and when there was

Inothing interesting on the route, and had filled my
Ibook with sketches, if my journal was in arrear,

used to remain in the boat posting it up, whilst we

were sailing, tracking, or rowing.

  IOn my way up a sad accident deprived me of the

services of my faithful attendant -- may say friend
-- Demetrius. We met a boat, having on board the

O'Conor Don, Captain Goding, and another, coming

Idown. They hailed us, and as they were short of
provisions,  gave them a liberal supply, and invited

them to dinner, the two crews regaling themselves

and firing feux de joie at the same time. Suddenly a
tremendous explosion, followed by a loud cry, was

heard, and hastening on deck I found poor Demetrius

covered with blood from two deep wounds in the

Ithroat and breast, his pistol having burst in his hand.

At first thought it would have been fatal, the effusion
Iof blood was so great.
                         succeeded, however, in tying
Iup the wounds and stopping the hemorrhage. It was

then a question what should be done with him, as was

not surgeon enough to cure him, and no advice was to
136 AUTOBIOGUAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

be had. In this emergency my new friends were so

Ikind as to offer to take him to Cairo, where he could
be properly attended to.            gladly accepted the offer,
and supplied him with a sufficient sum of money, and
requested them to place him in charge of the Consul,

with directions to procure the best medical advice, for

Iwhich was of course responsible. Independently of
Ithe accident, was much grieved to part with him,

and was at first greatly at a loss for his services ; but
my janissary, an Italian turned Mussulman, and who

spoke Arabic very well, and was not a bad cook, cheer

fully consented to do what he could ; and the reis also,

a very civil fellow, as well as his crew, did all in their

power to compensate me for the loss of Demetrius, so

that after a short time we managed between us to get

Ialong pretty well.

     will only add one more incident, because it seems

to show that the serpents used by serpent-charmers

are not always deprived of their fangs, as is usually

Isupposed, but that there is some real secret which
renders them harmless or powerless.     was measuring
the Temple of Edfou, when I saw a peculiarly venomous

serpent come out of its hole, whilst an Arab boy who
stood by fixed his eye steadily upon it the moment he

saw the reptile fixing his eyes on the boy. Theit,

            a
lad began waving his hands gently up and down,
humming peculiar tune in low, monotonous tone.
                                    Ia
The serpent seemed to be charmed, and lay perfectly
still, listening to and keeping its eyes attentively on

the boy, who, finding that he had charmedI          was

about to secure                     but at this was so horrified, thatit,
           a

                it

                            ;
I  took up large stone and killed the reptile. The

boy was very angry, and assailed me with the most

vehement gestures and imprecations, at which laughed

heartily.        afterwards learned that he was the son
           I

                              :
of a serpent-charmer, and was collecting these reptiles

for his father.                  .
THE NILE.  137

  In proceeding along the banks of the Nile, I ob

served that the land inclined from the margin of the
river to the base of the adjacent hills. This is nothing
more than might have been expected, as it is usual

under all similar circumstances, and is caused by the

periodical inundation. Thus, whenever the river rises
above the margin, the current naturally diminishes in
velocity as it encroaches on the banks, and to a certain
extent becomes stagnant, and then deposits the alluvial

matter with which the waters are charged ; and as the

water spreads farther on both sides from the main body
of the river, it becomes clearer, and contains less allu
vial matter. This is a wise provision of nature, for
it enables the waters to extend a long way, and thus

to irrigate a great extent of land. In order to ensure
this irrigation more effectually, it is only necessary

to keep open sufficient channels, which may be done
with facility. But suppose this was not the case ;
suppose the land farthest off silted up first, then it
would be necessary, for the purpose of irrigation, to

raise the water by artificial means at considerable
extra cost, to irrigate those lands farthest from the
river. However, in process of time, as the land rises
both at the sides of the river and the parts more

remote from it where they have attained the utmost
level of the floods, recourse must be had to art to irri
gate the lands, otherwise their fertility and cultivation
must cease, as the quantity of rainfall in the lower
valley of the Nile, as it passes through Egypt, is
comparatively trifling; in fact, the fertility of the

country depends almost entirely upon the floods.

   It is very probable that these waters might be utilized

to a much greater extent by establishing large reser
voirs in the adjacent valleys, which would be filled
during the rising of the floods ; and when these latter

have subsided, the stored-up water could be discharged

during the dry seasons for irrigation, navigation, and
138 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

numerous other purposes. According to the present

system, a vast quantity of water is allowed to waste,
and the means of cultivating a large additional tract of

country, now a desert, is lost. This object might be

carried still farther by improving the channel of the
Nile up to the great lakes of Albert and Victoria

Nyanza, for the most part now a marshy, pestiferous
district ; this will very probably be done, as the subject
becomes better understood ; indeed, it is surprising how

little the advantages which nature offers us in this

respect are turned to account.
   The delta of the Nile, like other rivers of the same

lass and magnitude under similar circumstances, ad

vances outwards into the Mediterranean, and in pro
portion as it moves forward, the depth of water
increases, and the width of the delta becomes greater,

so that it requires a larger quantity of alluvium to

maintain  its  progress, which becomes necessarily slower
          as   far as concerns the alluvium brought down
-- that a is,

                                   it
by the Nile. But then                  must be observed, that as

the delta proceeds outward, the stagnation produced

by the protrusion of its apex into the Mediterranean

causes    greater accumulation of alluvial matter to

be deposited on both sides of the apex, and conse

quently two great bays are formed, one on either side,
although the shores of these bays necessarily do not

advance so rapidly as the centre portion. In propor
tion as the several branches of the Nile advance sea

ward, so their courses become lengthened, and conse
quently the total fall or inclination of the current

becomes diminished, so that            cannot keep them all
;

                                     it
                                                         it
open and hence, out of the eight branches or mouths

of the Nile which existed in ancient times, only two
now remain -- namely, the Damietta and Rosetta

mouths, and these are slowly deteriorating.

Whilst upon this part of the subject,                        may be

advisable to make a few remarks about the Suez Canal.
SUEZ CANAL.  13'J

This great work consists of an open cutting or trench
from the Bay of Pelusium (Port Said) to the Red
Sea at Suez, a total length of 99 miles, 196 feet wide

at top, 72 feet wide at bottom, and 26 feet deep, with

side slopes of 2 to 1. At the Mediterranean end there

is a rise of tide or variation in the surface of the sea of

from 1 foot to 2 feet, and at the Suez end from 2 feet

at neaps to 6 feet at springs.
    On the Mediterranean the entrance to the canal is

protected by an artificial harbour composed of two
piers carried from the shore. The western pier is
carried out 2400 yards in a straight line, pointing
towards the north, it then inclines slightly to the east

for 330 yards, so that the total length of the west
breakwater or pier is 2730 yards, or 8190 feet. The
eastern breakwater or pier is carried out from the
shore at a distance of 1530 yards from the commence
ment of the western pier, and is extended in a northerly
direction 2070 yards, where it terminates at 760 yards
from extremity of the west pier, which constitutes the
entrance. Thus the two piers enclose a space of 500
acres, with a depth within of 26 feet. This harbour is
said to be well protected against the prevailing or north

west winds.
   This outer harbour, called Port Said, is connected

with extensive quays and basins within, from whence

the canal proceeds across the isthmus. At 52 miles

from Port Said there is Lake Timsah ; also Lake
Ismaila and the Bitter Lakes, at 57 miles from Port
Said. These Bitter Lakes cover a surface of about
100,000 acres, and will always ensure a considerable

draught or current from the Red Sea, to compensate
for the large amount of evaporation which is constantly

going on, particularly during the summer season,

and is said to amount to about 250,000,000 cubic

feet daily. In order to supply fresh water to Suez,
Ismaila, and Port Said, a considerable channel has been
140 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

made from the Nile, at Cairo, to Suez and Ismaila, and

a double line of cast-iron pipes between Ismaila and
Port Said, with pumping engines of the requisite

power at the former place.
   The entrance to the Suez end of the canal is formed

by an extensive double embankment through the shoal

water, increasing gradually from a width of 72 feet at

bottom, to 980 feet, where there is an open tidal dock,

with 26 feet depth at low water.

This is no doubt a very extraordinary performance,

rendered remarkable for the vast amount of capital
which has been raised by a single individual -- not an
engineer-- and the wonderful energy and perseverance

with which he has accomplished    it,opposed by innu
                                                 it
merable obstacles, political and financial, which would
                                                                       :
have daunted and overwhelmed any person of ordinary

physical powers. Although as an engineering work

        encountered by no unusual difficulties in the exe

cution --being simply matter of digging and dredging
upon vast scale -- yet certainly entitles M. Lesseps
it            a
     is
                it
           a

and his officers to the greatest credit.

   Having now generally described the canal, let us
consider how far natural obstacles exist which should

cause any doubts as to its being possible to maintaina
the canal at such an expense as will enable to pro

duce something like reasonable profit upon the capital
expended in making it.

   These obstacles may be enumerated as follows

   Firstly. The alluvial matter brought down by the
Nile, and that from the prevailing littoral westerly

current in the Mediterranean.

   Secondly. The sands driven by the north-westerly
winds into Port Said.

   Thirdly. The sands driven into Suez by the south

erly winds.
   Fourthly. The sands driven into the canal from the

surrounding deserts by the kamsin, or south-east winds
              SUEZ CANAL.                 141

Fifthly. From the great evaporation which will take

place, and the consequent requirement of a correspond
ing supply of water both from the Mediterranean and

the Red Sea.

Sixthly. Whether the expenses which must neces

sarily be incurred in overcoming these obstacles will
amount to such a sum as will render the canal practi
cally useless, that is to say, that it will not be worth

the while of the Company to maintain it.

Before considering these important questions, it will

Ibe right to investigate the natural causes which have
formed the Isthmus of Suez.  think we may conclude

that Africa was originally an island, and that by degrees

the waters of the Red Sea, driven in by the southerly
winds, and those of the Mediterranean, driven by the

northerly winds, brought with them a great quantity

of alluvial matter ; at the junction of these waters the

currents would be destroyed, and the alluvium with

which the waters were charged would be deposited and

form a bank or bar, which by degrees rose above the

ordinary level of the sea. This bank, once formed,

would continually increase, not only from the alluvium
brought in by the seas, but also from the sands blown

in by the northerly and southerly winds from the sur

Irounding deserts ; and thus, in the process of time, the
present isthmus would be formed.      think that the

practical evidence of this is undoubted. The same
operations are still in existence, and it is simply a

question of time as to the increase.
  IHaving discussed the cause of the formation of the

isthmus, will now proceed to consider the objections
or obstacles above mentioned. With regard to the

first, the waters of the Nile are constantly bringing

down alluvial matter, but whether the quantity brought

down now is the same as formerly, or greater or less,

is a question which nothing but experience can decide.

But as far as experiments have already been made, it
142 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

appears that the accumulation which has already taken

place is considerable, and if it proceeds in the same

ratio as hitherto, it must shortly become a very serious
question whether it should be removed or not, and
whether it might not be remunerative to do so.

   Secondly. With regard to the sands driven in by the
northerly winds ; these must be very considerable, and
not being able to escape, they must accumulate and
tend to fill up the harbour ; this will necessitate con
stant dredging to keep it open.

   Thirdly. The sands driven by the tide and the
southerly winds into the Suez end of the canal. These

also must be very considerable, as is already evinced
by the great extent of shallow water at the northern
extremity of the Red Sea. This also must be reduced

by dredging.
    Fourthly. With regard to the quantity of sand which

may be expected to be driven into the other parts of
the canal from the surrounding deserts, during the
winter and spring prevailing kamsin, or south
easterly gales. This quantity has been proved by one
year's experience to be not less than 310,000 cubic

yards, and at times it may possibly be much more. It

is proposed to check this by planting the sides of the
canal with trees. Still a great deal of dredging must

be constantly required.
   Fifthly. The evaporation from the Bitter Lakes, and

parts of the canal adjacent, is said to be 250,000,000
cubic feet of water, which is equivalent to about three-
quarters of an inch daily. This water will have to be
supplied chiefly from the Red Sea ; and as it will have
to pass through such a narrow channel, the velocity of
the current will probably amount to two or three miles

per hour, and if the banks of the canal are not well

secured by paving, or similar works, they will be liable
to be seriously affected. The constant indraught of the
current will impede vessels coming from the Mediter
SUEZ CANAL.  143

ranean, whilst it will facilitate the passage of vessels
coming from the Red Sea ; and in the same manner
there will be a constant current from the Mediter

ranean, but by no means to so great an extent. These

currents will also very probably bring in a considerable
quantity of alluvium. They will not, however, very

materially interfere with the passage of steam-vessels,

although, if the latter are permitted to go at full speed,

the waves produced by them will scour away the sides
considerably, unless well protected by stone paving,
fagoting, or similar works.

    Upon the whole, viewing the difficulties above men
tioned, the question naturally arises, whether they are of
such a character as to be insurmountable ; and to this

I think we may safely say that they are not. What

has been done once, as has been proved by the comple

tion of the canal, can be done again, and will be

maintained with much less difficulty. So far, therefore,
viewed simply as a work of engineering, it resolves
itself into a question of cost, or in other words, will the
work pay as a commercial speculation, seeing that it

has already cost 20,000,0007., and a great deal more
is still required before it can be said to be quite com
plete, besides a very large sum for annual maintenance,

and what this last item will be it is very difficult to

decide, and nothing but experience can prove ; still the
more the canal becomes known, the more in all proba
bility will it be used, and therefore the more money

will be available for keeping it in repair. In addition
to the dredging, it is very probable that the piers, both
at Port Said and Suez, will have to be extended con

siderably.

    The whole of the valley of the Nile, from the head
of the delta below Cairo, is bordered by ridges of sand
stone hills a few hundred feet high, with generally a

plain monotonous tableland above, intersected by nu
merous ravines ; no granite appears until we reach
144 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Assouan. In the vicinity of this place there are nu

merous quarries of fine granite, chiefly red ; the masses

are so compact that blocks of almost any size may be
obtained from near the surface. From this district all

the granite for the obelisks, statues, and columns of

the various buildings, temples, and pyramids on both
sides of the valley have been taken. Transported in

flat-bottomed boats and rafts to the places where they

were intended to be used, they were landed by means

of inclined planes of wood, with rollers, and wedges,
assisted by numerous rough capstans or windlasses,
worked by countless gangs of men. This work appears
to have been done with considerable skill, and the

necessary combined operations were carried on simul
taneously, by means of well-concerted signals. These

operations are very clearly explained by the sculptured
figures, and have been published by Sir Gardner

Wilkinson and others.

I Whilst examining the granite quarries near Assouan,

  observed several imperfect blocks, which the Egyp

tians had commenced quarrying, but found them

defective, and ceased working them. The mode of

quarrying seems to have been nearly the same as we

employ at the present time, namely, by wedges, levers,

and pickaxes. Even if gunpowder had been known

it would have been of very little use, for it would have

in most cases destroyed the blocks, and the waste would

have been enormous.

  It does not quite clearly appear of what metal the

tools were composed with which they worked the

granite, whether of iron or bronze ; if of the former, it

must have been case-hardened.  The polishing would

be done by attrition with emery or sharp silicious
sand. As for the stone, being sandstone, it was easily

Iworked, and softer tools only were required.

   As soon as got back to Alexandria my first inquiries

were for poor Demetrius. To my great delight I found
      MALTA.                    11.-,

him quite recovered, and overjoyed at seeing me ; but

he said he had been very ill for six weeks, and had

several times considered himself dying. I immediately

Iset to work making arrangements for my journey over

land to Palestine, when was suddenly interrupted by
letters from my father, saying that he was very unwell,

and wishing me to come back as soon as possible. I

instantly dismissed Demetrius with a very handsome

gratuity, discontinued my preparations, and, through

IMr. Lee, our Consul at Alexandria, hired a passage to
Malta in a merchant vessel.  was, however, laid up

for several days at Cairo with fever, which was not

Ipleasant, as the plague was then raging. As soon as
Iwas sufficiently recovered proceeded to Alexandria,
Iwhere found that the merchantman had already sailed.
However, as I have said before, Captain Boswell, with

H.M. sloop, the 'Spry,' was there, having Captain

Wright on board, and the latter having finished his

report on Cleopatra's Needle, the sloop was about to

Ireturn to Malta, and they very kindly offered me a

passage. This gladly accepted, and on arriving at

IMalta found that the plague had broken out on board
the merchantman in which     had engaged a passage,

and that several of the crew had died. She was then

I Iin quarantine, and before long everyone on board

died of the plague, and saw the ship burnt. humbly

thanked an all-merciful Providence for its inscrutable

Idispositions.               still retained the fever,

   At Malta, though better,
and consulted Dr. Groves, the head of the naval medical

department. He looked very grave and said little, but

recommended me to go to England as soon as possible,

Iwhile he told a friend of mine that he did not think
   should recover, the fever having taken such hold of
my constitution. However, by the aid of bark and port
Iwine I became temporarily myself, and as soon as I was
able  proceeded to pay my visits. I called on the

                             L
146 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean squadron,

Sir Graham Moore, who gave me every assistance in
his power, and introduced me to Admiral Woolley,

Ichief of the dockyard, to whom and his amiable wife

   owe my gratitude for their kind hospitality. They

introduced me to Sir Manly Power, the commander

of the military forces, and from him and the various
Imesses of the regiments composing the garrison
Imet with the most friendly reception.
                                                    here made

Ithe acquaintance of Mr. Strutt, one of the sons of

Mr. Strutt, of Belper, and with him explored both
Malta and Gozo. He shortly after left for Greece and

the East, where he died of malaria, which I much re

gretted, as he was a remarkably fine, intelligent, and

spiWritheidleyIouwnags  man.  His  Majesty  George  IV.'s  birthday
                        here

was celebrated with the greatest ichit. At twelve o'clock

the entire garrison was reviewed by Sir Manly Power,
with the usual salutes from the forts and ships of war.

At sunset all the guns on the works were fired.

IThis was a magnificent sight, and, that might see it
Iproperly, was invited to dine at the artillery mess at

St. Elmo, from whence the first gun was fired ; this was

taken up by fort after fort until the entire fortress
seemed in a blaze, and the whole was terminated by a

Imagnificent bouquet of rockets.
      embarked for Naples on board a cutter commanded
by Mr. Thurtle, one of the oldest midshipmen in the
navy. He was a very peculiar and rather eccentric

character, rough and sarcastic in manner, an excel

lent sailor, and a kind-hearted man. His long ser

vice and great experience rendered him well known
throughout the navy, and his wit and good-humour

made him a favourite wherever he went ; in fact, he

was a privileged person throughout the fleet, and
enabled to assume a character which few officers of

far higher rank thought of attempting. Unfortu
                        NAPLES.      147

nately he was the brother of that daring and dis

sipated criminal who shortly afterwards murdered

his companion, Welsh, at Elstree, for which he was
                            This was a sad blow to the
hanged at the Old  Bailey.
poor midshipman,   and one   from which I afterwards

heard that he never recovered. My voyage with him
was most agreeable. He was very kind and attentive,
full of fun and humour, yet never for a moment

neglecting his duties, and he kept his crew and ship

Iin the most perfect order.

   On landing at Naples got apartments in the Gran

Bretagna (then, and I believe now, the principal hotel),

with more ease than usual, in consequence of the rapid
advance of an Austrian army, thirty thousand strong,

commanded by General    IBaron Pirmont, at the request

of the King of Naples.    saw them enter, and very fine

troops they were, especially the Tyrolese yagers. Later

I Ion, when wished to make an excursion to Paestum,

obtained, through the kindness of the colonel of the

regiment, two Tyrolese corporals as escort. They sat,

Irifle in hand, on the box of my carriage, and mounted

guard while sketched. We saw several ill-looking

fellows, armed, prowling about, but none dared venture
within reach of the rifles. Letters from my father

reached me here, saying that he was a good deal better,

and that there was no necessity for my hurrying ; I
therefore, while still hastening home, thought I might

allow myself a few days on the road to visit those

Iobjects of interest which had previously omitted.
  IWhile at Naples also examined an open pier, of

which there are numerous specimens about the bay.
This pier is constructed in a peculiar manner of pozzo-

lano mixed up with irregular-shaped pieces of brick,

marble, and tufa, or volcanic stone. The piers were

formed by enclosing the space in a wooden dam or
box, then filling it with the materials above mentioned,

which after a short time set under water, and became

                                 L2
148 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

a solid mass ; the cofferdam was then removed and

the pier left standing; then another was constructed
in the same manner, until the required number were
completed ; upon these piers arches were built, and
upon the top of them a roadway and parapet were
constructed. The piers were about the same thickness,
or rather greater, than the span of the arches. The
object of the openings and piers was to provide a
barrier which should be just sufficient to break the
swell, but not large enough to obstruct the current,
as the latter prevented any sediment from accumu
lating on either side of the pier. This is a very inge
nious and novel mode of constructing piers, and it is
strange that a like method has not been adopted in
England, where the vast quantity of alluvial matter
carried by the currents along our coasts accumulates
round solid piers, and frequently fills up the harbours,
rendering them almost useless, unless the accumulated

Imatter be removed by dredging at continual expense.

   Whilst breakfasting at the hotel at Pozzoli felt an
attack of my old enemy, the malaria fever, coming on ;

I therefore got back to Naples as soon as possible, and
Iwas obliged to go to bed, and there remained for

several days perfectly helpless. Thinking it would leave

Ime, did not send for medical advice. However, find
Iing myself gradually getting worse, was recommended

to send for Dr. Roskilly, formerly an army surgeon,
who had now established himself at Naples as a
physician, and from his well-known skill and courteous

Imanners had obtained considerable practice, particu

larly amongst the English. He came, and found
him such as described ; he examined me carefully, and,

Iafter a considerable time of grave consideration, he

said that was in a very bad way, that the fever had
got such a strong hold of me that it was continually

undermining my constitution, and that, if not speedily

arrested, he could not answer for the consequences ;
                 NAPLES-- MALARIA.  119

Iindeed, might not live to see England. The worthy
Idoctor, with whom was much pleased, then left, and
promised to return the next day at the same time, which
he did. He then said that he had given my case his

utmost consideration, and he was more than ever con

vinced that some decisive measure was necessary. My

Iconstitution was still good, and strong enough for the

measure he would propose ; and if would submit to

him, he felt confident that he could carry me through.

He explained his remedy, which was nothing more or

I Iless than that should take blue pill, as much as

was able ; this, he said, would thoroughly eradicate
Ithe fever.
              accordingly consented, as my case was
desperate. It succeeded completely after about a fort
I Inight's trial.
Idifferent man.felt very weak, but was entirely a

                 soon began to recover strength and
Iappetite, and in about another week was enabled to

Igo out, and became myself again. No doubt the

remedy was severe, but must in justice to the able

Idoctor say that he perfectly cured me ; for although in

after life was frequently exposed to malaria influence

in  the fens  oTfunLiisn,coalnndsheirlsee,whWerael,chIerneenv,erthheadwoarnstapttaarctks
of  Holland,

of the malaria fever.

  IOn my way northwards stopped two days at Mola

di Gaeta, where the Apennines approach the sea, and
Iwhere are numerous traces of the villas of the old
Roman aristocracy ; it was well     did so, for the

brigands had mustered in great strength in the ad

joining mountains, and committed many atrocities ;

amongst other things, they had just carried off a
number of pupils from a neighbouring school. The

Austrians, who were there in great force, at the re

quest of the local authorities came to the rescue. A very
strong patrol of cavalry kept the main roads, while

a still more numerous body of Tyrolese swept the
valleys and penetrated the recesses of the mountains.
150 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

The brigands at first defied their pursuers, but finding

themselves hard pressed, they killed their unfortunate

prisoners. On hearing this the Austrians attacked at

once, and having slain a great number, made the rest
Iprisoners.
             saw about thirty chained together, who,
I believe, were all shot the next day. The road being
Inow clear, resumed my journey.

  IAt Florence carefully examined and measured the
celebrated bridge of the Most Holy Trinity, by Amma-

nati, across the Arno, near the Gran Bretagna. This

beautiful structure, a masterpiece in the art of bridge-

building, consists of three arches ; the arches may be

termed semi-elliptic, slightly pointed at the crown ;

perhaps they might be more appropriately termed

Gothi-elliptic. The slight pointing at the crown may

have been done to allow for sinking, which did not take

place to the extent calculated upon. Each of the arches

is surrounded with a moulded archivolt of equal thick

ness throughout, with an ornamented scroll or shield in

the centre of the spandril walls supporting the road

way, which is bounded by a solid panelled bridge. The

piers are terminated by acute angular buttresses carved

up to the top, and panelled also. The whole is built

of marble, and is certainly one of the lightest, most

elegant, and most scientific structures of the kind in

existence. Some doubts as to its stability have existed

at various times ; nevertheless, it still exists without a

Iflaw, and as a model to engineers and architects.

       visited the magnificent picture gallery of the
Palazzo Pitti, replete with choice specimens of the great
Italian masters. The palace itself is a fine example of

the simple, massive, rusticated style, devoid of orna

ment. The effect is imposing, and shows what may be

done by bold, well-defined masses, without resorting to

that exuberant over-ornamented style, intermixed with

all sorts of coloured marble, so much the fashion of the

present day, particularly in England, where the climate
                FLORENCE-LEGIIORN.                               151

Ifis peculiarly unsuited for it ; in any case it can only be
termed a vitiated taste.  the building is well designed

and properly grouped in effective masses, so as to give
well-defined portions of light and shade, there can be no

need of extraneous ornaments, as they only detract from

the general effect; and where a building is not well

designed no ornament can render it effective.
   The port of Leghorn consisted of several solid stone

piers, which did not appear to be laid out in the most

Iscientific manner, and considerable improvements were

in contemplation when saw it. The great difficulty

it has to contend with is the quantity of alluvial matter

brought down by the Arno, which spreads along the
coast for some distance both to the north and south. This

might be obviated by judiciously adopting the principle
of open piers, as invented by the Romans, so as to
allow the littoral current full scope ; this would sweep

away the alluvium as fast as it was deposited, and the

requisite protection from westerly winds might be

easily obtained if the works were constructed on a

Iproper system.
   Passing by Carrara, was much struck by the waste
consequent on the clumsy method of working the
quarries, and of transporting and loading the blocks.

It occurred to me at the time how easy it would be

to construct an iron tramway from the quarries to the

shore, with a suitable pier furnished with powerful

derricks at its termination, and this, with proper ma

chinery for quarrying, all of which would have cost

but little, would materially reduce the price of the

marble, and consequently increase the demand.
  IAs I passed                                                   Gulf
                tthheoumghatg,ni"ficWenhtatanad  well-protected
of Spezzia,                                      splendid site   for a

naval arsenal !" This idea has now been at least par

tially carried into effect, and if the works are properly

designed and executed, it ought to be one of the finest

in Europe.
152 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

   The morning    after  wmeyntarfirrisvtaltoatthGeenhoaarbIouarro, sweheiachrlyI,
quite refreshed,  and

had always heard was one of the finest works of the

kind in the world, and as such my excellent father

Iexpected that should give him a complete account of
Iit. therefore examined it very minutely, and took
great pains in tracing, sketching, and measuring            I it,
when could do so without being observed, for there

was good deal of jealousy about it. At first sight
aI
    Iwas very much struck by the extent and magnificence
of the bay, with the fine old town rising like vast
                                                        aa
amphitheatre of palaces round surrounded by hugeit,
circle of forts which crowned the summits of the hills
                                                            ;

and by the great extent and massiveness of the two

outer moles, the depth of water enclosed within them

being capable of receiving at all times the largest
vessels of war. But when began to examine more
                         I
narrowly  found that there was                  great error in
                                     a
                                            a

                                               a
the design of the main or outer moles. The southern,

which was the longest, consisted of two arms, the

outer one inclining inward at considerable angle,
whilst the northern mole consisted of single straight
line projecting from the shore in a south-south

west direction, so that the entrance pointed south-
south-west, and was consequently exposed to the full

effect of the severe gales which blow up the Gulf

of Lyons during the winter and autumn months;

the consequence that during severe gales from this
a
     a

               is
quarter heavy swell sets into the entrance and pro

duces such strong current throughout the interior of

the harbour that vessels in front of the town and under

the southern mole can scarcely ride with safety at their
moorings. This
                  is     serious defect, and      I itmight be
                      a

easily remedied, although up to the present have not

heard that anything has been done. In the construc

tion of the works there was nothing particular to find

fault with, but there was serious error committed in
                         a
GENOA.  153

the disposal of the sewage ; the whole of this was dis
charged into the harbour, so that in hot weather a
most disagreeable effluvia arose in front of the lower
part of the town ; moreover, it caused the accumula
tion of a considerable quantity of alluvial matter.
This had to be removed by constant dredging, in

which convict labour was employed. The alluvium

was emptied into lighters and sent out to sea to be

discharged. The old arsenal was situated at the south
east corner of the inner harbour ; it was quite unequal
to the requirements of modern times.

  IWhile was at Genoa an accident occurred by which

my old acquaintance the sloop ' Spry ' was nearly lost.

Captain Boswell, having served his time, had been

succeeded by another captain, who, contrary to strict
rule, had his wife on board. The evening on which

the captain had given orders to prepare for sailing
there happened to be a grand ball in the town, and
the lady persuaded her husband to take her, and defer
sailing to the morrow. By this time the ' Spry' had left
the harbour, and lay at single anchor outside the north
mole. During the night a strong gale sprung up from

the south. As the ship could not regain her old
position the officer in command let go two more

anchors, but two cables having parted she dragged her
third anchor, and was driven close to the rocks. No

assistance could be given from the shore, and, as her
position seemed hopeless, the officers and crew took to
their boats, and managed to get off in safety. To the
astonishment of everybody, however, the last cable
held, and the recoil of the waves, so close was she to

the rocks, actually prevented her from striking, and so
she remained until the gale abated, and the ship was
saved. The odd part of it was, that when the crew
were about leaving the ship my old friend Dr. Biggar
was asleep in the cabin, and when aroused flew into a
violent rage, and threw a bootjack at the head of the
154 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

midshipman who woke him. After several ineffectual

attempts, the midshipman was obliged to leave him,

and he turned round and slept soundly till the morn
ing. Judge of his surprise when he awoke and found

Iwhat had happened during the night !     embarked

   After passing rapidly through France,

from Boulogne, September 23, 1821, in a small packet,

during a very strong gale, with about fifty other pas

sengers.

   The following day we started with the morning's
tide with about seventy passengers, of whom Colonel
Hylton Jolliffe, a friend of my father's, was one. We

Ileft Boulogne about eleven, and reached Dover at

2 p.m. ; directly started by coach for London, and

Ireached my father's, 27, Stamford Street, the same
night.      found him in very bad health, lying upon

the sofa in the principal front bedroom ; he was glad

to see me.

   He continued in the same weak state, although in
perfect possession of all his great faculties, dictated to

me several letters on business, and talked of sundry

new works that he was about to undertake, par

ticularly the new London Bridge, and the removal of

the old one, which had been for some time under dis

cussion in Parliament; a Bill for this purpose had

actually been introduced during the past session, and

my father had been requested to prepare a design

for which he did, and was very similar to
that since executed by myself. My father's bodily
it,

                         I it

                                                                                              a
health appeared to decline gradually; he was confined

almost to the sofa, and could do little more than walk

across the room; in this manner he continued until
the 3rd of October. He went to bed as usual, perfectly

sensible and composed, and hoped that he would soon

be better, as he was most anxious to return to business

and make up for lost time.  went to his room on

the morning of the 4th of October, and found that
DEATH OF MR. RENNIE.                                 155

considerable change for the worse had taken place ; he
seemed to be in much pain, and was walking about the

Iroom, evidently scarcely knowing what he was about.

  got him into bed, and immediately sent for his physi
cian, Dr. Ainslie, who had known him all his life, but

he was unfortunately out of town. The apothecary,
Mr. Welbank, came, and we consulted together as to

whom we should send for, and ultimately summoned

Dr. Roberts, who, although in good practice, had

never seen my father, and consequently knew nothing
of his constitution or complaints. He did the best he

could, but evidently thought the case was very serious.

IMy father lay in bed all day, almost unconscious,
although I thought he knew me.  remained with him

nearly the whole day, and about five o'clock in the

afternoon he appeared to be sinking fast, and breathed
very heavily, which alarmed us all excessively. In a

short time this ceased, his features began gradually to

relax, and he breathed his last at half-past five on
the afternoon of the 4th of October, 1821, in the sixty-
first year of his age.

   The disease which killed my poor father was that of

the kidneys and liver, as far as we could ascertain. All

my brothers and sisters were assembled round his death

bed. It was a sad, sad sight, and afflicted us most

severely; we had, however, the melancholy satisfaction
of having done all in our power, though of no avail, to

arrest the fatal event. He was universally known and

respected ; the news of his death spread immediately

throughout the town, the public papers were filled
with leading articles giving accounts of his public and
private life, and everybody deplored his loss. One of

the most powerful and touching articles was written
by his talented friend Perry, the proprietor of the
' Morning Chronicle,' who was then at Brighton in

bad health, and died there three months afterwards.

It seemed to be the universal wish that he who had
156 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

rendered so many services to his country and was so
generally beloved, should be buried in St. Paul's, and
arrangements were made accordingly. The funeral
took place a few days afterwards, at eleven o'clock,
and he was attended to his last resting-place by a vast

concourse of literary, scientific, and private friends.
The late talented John Wilson Croker, Esq., then First
Secretary of the Admiralty, wrote the epitaph, which
was composed in the most feeling and scholar-like
manner for which that able gentleman was so parti
cularly well qualified.
                              ( 157 )

                              CHAPTEE III.

Eau Brink Cut -- R amsoate Harrour -- Sheerness Dockyard --

   Plymouth Breakwater -- Anecdote of the late Mr. J. Fox

    -- London Bridge and Approaches -- Sib F. Trench's Plan

BFOrRidgeQU--AYNINoOrfoTlHkE    THAMES  --   NeNB OUTFaLL       CROSS KbY8
                                                            the Witham --
                              Estuary       Improvement of

Anoholmr Drainage.

It Iwas some time before could recover from the shock.
I had been absent abroad nearly two years and four

Imonths, and had passed through so many different

scenes, that when returned to England everything
seemed perfectly new to me ; being deprived of my

Ifather so unexpectedly threw me almost into a state of

despair, so that scarcely felt myself equal to under
take the responsibility of following his noble career,

Iwhich could never expect to equal. After giving way
Ito my melancholy reflections for about a month,

determined to rouse myself to the utmost and to do my
best, and with his brilliant example before me, and
Icheered on by his numerous attached friends, felt that
Iif had no chance of attaining the same degree of
Icelebrity as my dear father, might still do something,
Iand although lungo intervdllo, might still keep up the
Iname.  determined therefore to set to work in right
earnest and endeavour to obtain some of my father's

numerous appointments. My first ambition was to suc
ceed him in his numerous great works then being

carried on by the Admiralty, such as the Plymouth

Breakwater, and the new Chatham and Woolwich

dockyards.
158 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

That most excellent and able man, the late Lord

Melville, was at the head of the Admiralty ; the dis
tinguished and gallant Sir George Cockburn, one of
Nelson's officers at the Nile and elsewhere, was the
First Naval Lord; John Wilson Croker and Sir John

Barrow were the Secretaries ; and there never has

been such a galaxy of talent at the Admiralty since.

All these great and good men have since passed away

from us, not without, however, leaving behind them

indisputable monuments of their skill and the great
benefits they conferred upon their country. As for
Imyself, owe them my deepest gratitude, and shall
Inever forget their kindness.
                               was appointed by the

IAdmiralty to succeed my father as their engineer.

This high honour at my early age (for was only

Iseven-and-twenty) filled me with the greatest thank

fulness, although felt it was due to no merit of my

Iown, but rather to the regard and respect which they

entertained for my father ; therefore resolved to do

everything in my power to render myself worthy of  it,
and set to work with right good will.

   The next appointment obtained was as drainage
engineer to the Eau Brink Commissioners. This was
at that time the greatest work of the kind, at the head
I
of which were the late General Lord William Bentinck,
                      ;
afterwards Governor-General of India; the late Sir

Andrew Hammond, Bart.; the late Sir Charles Browne,

physician to the King of Prussia and the late Thomas

Hoseason, Esq., of Banklands, in the district of Marsh

land, near Lynn. These able and distinguished men

formed the Committee for carrying into effect the Eau

Brink Cut, for the improvement of the drainage of
the great level of the fens, called the Bedford Level,

amounting to about 300,000 acres of valuable land.

This work consisted of cut for altering the channel
a

of the Ouse, by means of which nearly two miles

of the navigation of that river would be saved, and
EAU BRINK CUT.  159

an additional fall for the drainage of five feet per
pendicular would be gained. This great work had
been planned nearly a century before, but had always
been opposed by the inhabitants of the fens, as being
in their opinion inadequate to effect the desired object.

At length, after great opposition on the part of the

townspeople, who alleged that it would ruin their har
bour and trade, the plan was decided on, and an Act
of Parliament was obtained, in the year 1781, to carry
it into effect, and to lay a tax of Ad. per acre per annum
upon all fen lands which it was supposed would derive
benefit from it ; certain guarantees were given to

Lynn Harbour and the interior navigation interests, as
well as to the owners of the banks of the Ouse, that

they should be indemnified for any damages they might
sustain in consequence of the Eau Brink Cut being

executed. Under this Act it was decreed that there

should be two engineers, one appointed by the drainage
interests, namely, the late Robert Mylne (the architect
of Blackfriars Bridge), and Sir Thomas Hyde Page, R.E.,

as the engineer for navigation. These two gentlemen
were to decide the direction and dimensions of the

proposed Eau Brink Cut, which was to commence below
German's Bridge and to terminate a short distance
above the boat wharf at Lynn. They, however, differed
so materially that it was necessary to call in an umpire

to decide between them, and the late scientific Captain
Joseph Huddart, of the Trinity Board, and the in
ventor of the celebrated patent cable machinery, was

appointed arbitrator. Captain Huddart made his
award ; but when it was determined to carry on the
works, it was found that the whole of the funds appro

priated for that purpose, which amounted to about
80,000/., had been expended in litigation and the cost
of obtaining the Act of Parliament, so that the whole

matter fell to the ground.
    Meanwhile the defective state of drainage of the
160 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOIIX RENNIE.

great level of the fens still continued, and everybody
was convinced that the only remedy was to carry into
effect the Eau Brink Cut as awarded by Captain

Huddart. It was therefore resolved that a new Act of

Parliament should be obtained for this purpose, in

creasing the tax upon the lands proposed to be benefited

sufficiently to cover the costs according to the estimate
of my father, who was appointed engineer-in-chief of
the drainage interests ; and the above-mentioned gentle

men, Lord W. Bentinck, Sir A. Hammond, Sir Charles

Browne, and Thomas Hoseason, Esq., were appointed

as the executive committee.

   The Act having passed, Messrs. Jolliffe and Banks

tendered for, and received and executed the contract.

   The effect of this work greatly exceeded the most
sanguine expectations of its supporters. Immediately
after it was opened the low-water mark at the upper end
of the cut fell five feet, and the drainage waters were
carried off with a degree of rapidity which astonished
the whole country. The autumn and winter of 1821-2
was characterized by an unusual quantity of rainfall,

and if it had not been for the opening of the Eau Brink

Cut the whole, or the greater part, of the level of the fens
would have been under water, and therefore the fenmen

were very well pleased with the result. At this time I

was appointed to succeed my father as chief drainage
engineer, and the late Mr. Telford had been previously
appointed the chief engineer for navigation. Im

Imediately after my appointment, which was in the

month of December, 1821, went to Lynn to examine
the works, and was much astonished to find the great
effects which had been produced by the Eau Brink Cut.
Instead of the circuitous old shallow course, full of
shoals and obstructions of every kind, there was a fine
straight, deep channel, two miles shorter than the old
one, of the proper width, bordered by strong banks of
the full height; the floods passed off without diffi
THE FENS.  161

culty, and the navigation was so much improved that

the lighters and barges going up the river from Lynn

saved several tides. It is true that upon examining the

country between Denver Sluice and Cambridge, there
was a great deal of water out in several places, but this
was attributed to the interior drains and rivers not

being properly defended and embanked, so that they

could carry off the water to the main outfall below. I

also examined the new steam pumping apparatus,
which had lately been erected for draining Soham and
other fens. This, although proposed by my father in
1786, was the first of the kind that had been erected.

It consisted of a scoop wheel, with a perpendicular lift,
worked by a condensing engine. It answered its object

completely, and has since been imitated by numerous
others with equal success in different parts of the fen
and lowland districts. Yet in many places it has been
found very difficult to induce the fen proprietors to
combine together in order to effect a natural drainage,
which would be better and less expensive ; they prefer
to act independently of each other, and adopt the
steam wheel. Still, even with this, the main outfalls

must be improved to their fullest extent, otherwise
the water cannot run off ; and when the floods in the

adjacent rivers rise so high that the banks are en

dangered, the pumping must be discontinued, otherwise

the banks will break, and then a greater injury will

ensue. Nevertheless, the steam pumping apparatus is
an immense improvement on the old windmill, which
could only work when there was wind.

    My next appointment was to succeed my father as
engineer-in-chief to Ramsgate Harbour.

    This harbour was established by special Act of Par
liament for the purpose of affording shelter to vessels of
 300 tons lying in the Downs during south-west gales.
 When these winds prevail that anchorage is crowded
with all classes of vessels, and the smaller ones, not

                                                                                                       M
 162 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

 being so well found with ground tackle as the larger,
 are liable to be driven from their moorings and fall
 foul of the larger vessels, causing them to go adrift

 also, and thus creating considerable confusion and
 damage ; but by having Ramsgate under their lee, the
 small vessels can always get under way, run for it at
the commencement of the flood, and reach it in safety
 long before high water, at which time the Goodwin
 Sands are covered, and a heavy sea rolls into the Downs.

In fact, Ramsgate Harbour was made for clearing the

Downs of small vessels, so that the large ones may ride
in safety, and so far has effectually answered its object.

    There were a certain number of trustees appointed
under the Act, who were selected from the principal
merchants and shipowners of London, and the Deputy
Master and three or four Elder Brethren of the Trinity

Iwere members of the Board of Trustees ex officio. At

the time was appointed engineer, the celebrated Sir
William Curtis, Bart., member for the City of London,
was chairman, and the worthy Deputy Master of the
Trinity House, Sir John Woolmore, represented that
Corporation with three others of the Elder Brethren.
As this was one of the oldest and most important har

bour trusts in the kingdom, I felt great honour in being

appointed their chief engineer, the more so as the cele

brated Smeaton and my father had previously occupied

that position. It was here that Smeaton followed out

the idea that had been originally proposed at Dundee,
of establishing an inner basin with sluices for the
purpose of scouring away the mud which continually
accumulated in the outer harbour, owing to the great
quantity of alluvial matter brought in from the adja
cent coast and waters, which otherwise in a very
short time would have filled it up and rendered it use
less. Ramsgate Harbour was also celebrated for being
the first place of the kind where the diving bell was
introduced by Smeaton for the purpose of laying down
SHEERNESS.                                 1G3

moorings and removing obstacles under water. The
diving bell was afterwards, in 1813, much improved,

and rendered, for the first time, applicable to building

masonry under water with as much security and

accuracy as building upon dry land. In such an ex
posed situation it was more economical and expeditious
than the old cofferdams; it was in this manner Mr.

Rennie rebuilt the east pier-head in 17 feet at low-

Iwater spring tides, which was originally made by
Smeaton, and which failed.  also succeeded my

father at Sunderland, Donaghadee, Port Patrick, and

IKingstown harbours, the West India Docks, besides

other places soon afterwards, so that had a large

business, and was daily getting more.

The most difficult and anxious work, however, at that

time was the new dockyard at Sheerness, designed and

partly carried into effect by my father. He originally,
in the year 1807, recommended that the old dockyard,
which was composed only of some old wooden slips im

bedded in the mud, a few storehouses, a wretched

basin, lined with wooden walls, and some timber jetties,
should be abolished. He said that it was on the lee or

wrong side of the harbour, that the foundation for new
works was of mud and quicksand, that the space, on

account of the buildings in the old town, was very con

fined, and, therefore, that to make a good dockyard
there would be very expensive, and he thought it would

be far better to make a new complete establishment at
Northfleet, just above Gravesend, and to get rid of
Woolwich, Deptford, and Sheerness altogether. Mr.
Pitt, then Prime Minister, decided that it should be

done ; but when he died the matter fell to the ground,

as I have before said,although the land was bought for

the purpose.
   However, after the great war had terminated, in

1815, the nation was naturally anxious to reduce the
expenditure as much as possible, so that the House

                                       M2
161 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

of Commons would not listen to the idea of expending
any large sums upon great new works either for the
navy or the army ; and it was only after considerable
difficulty that the House of Commons would grant
money for the repairs of Sheerness Dockyard, and, like
most extensive repairs, it was found, when too late,
that it would have been far better to have abandoned

Sheerness altogether.

    Nevertheless it was absolutely necessary to do some

thing to the Thames and Medway dockyards, to keep
in repair the large fleet of vessels which was there laid
up in ordinary. The total number of pennants flying
at the close of the war was about 1000, and the last
vote for seamen in 1815 included 127,000 sailors and
marines. As there was greater depth of water at
Sheerness than at any of the dockyards, and as the
harbour immediately contiguous was capable of ac
commodating with ease any number of large vessels,

Sheerness was decided upon as the place where the

greatest repairs and improvements should be made, and
it ended in an entirely new dockyard being built. The
works accordingly commenced in 1815, and the late
Lord Melville laid the first stone at the north end

that year. It ended in expending nearly 3,000,000/.,

1,700,000/. of which went to the engineering depart
ment, and the remainder in the purchase of ground,
buildings in the town of Sheerness, in storehouses, mast
and timber ponds, smithery, admiral's and officers'
houses. The engineering works were of the most diffi
cult kind ; the foundations were composed of nothing
but soft mud and loose quicksands to an almost inter
minable depth, so that my father was obliged to invent
an entirely new system of hollow walls faced with
granite in front and brick behind. This system of
walls, which was entirely new, by giving a greater
superficial area of bearing surface with the same weight
of materials, rendered them thoroughly secure. He
                SHEERNESS.                    1G5

had adopted this kind of construction with perfect

success at the docks at Great Grimsby, in Lincolnshire,

and they succeeded equally well at Sheerness, although

exposed to much greater difficulties. The dockyard as

completed consists of one basin of nearly 3 acres, at the

east end of which are three docks for first-rate vessels

of war, with a depth of 9 feet at low water of spring

tides, the basin being of the same depth, so that with a

rise of tide of 18 feet at spring tides the largest vessels

can always be docked at those times. There is also

another tidal basin of about the same size, together with

large storehouses, smithery, mast ponds, boathouses,

admiral's and officers' houses, chapel, &c., and ample

space for timber and other materials. This dockyard,
therefore, as was the intention, is well adapted for

keeping in repair the numerous vessels lying up in
ordinary in the adjacent harbour, or for executing any

repairs which vessels on the northern stations may
         \ it never was intended to
require  answers its original purpose  be a   building yard,
                                       well.
and it                                          It should be

mentioned, that here Mr. Rennie first introduced cast-

iron gates for the dry docks ; these fitted to the granite

quoins so nicely by polishing the two surfaces, iron and

stone, with emery, that they worked together perfectly,

and were completely watertight; and although they
have now been in use forty-five years, they are as good

as on the day when they were made.

   At the time that these works were proceeding, it

was decided to make a new large granite dry dock

at Chatham, similar to those at Sheerness ; and some

improvements in the line of river wall, which partly
interfered with the free circulation of the tide there,

I Iwere being constructed when was appointed, and

finished them.

The breakwater in Plymouth Sound, which was

designed by my father and commenced in 1815, had

made considerable progress; in fact, the great mass
166 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

of rubble stone had been deposited throughout its entire

length, so that vessels of war as well as merchantmen

Icould safely lie under its protection during the heaviest
gales from the westward. When                                was appointed

engineer to the Admiralty, the late excellent Mr. Joseph

Whidbey, who was distinguished for his scientific ac

quirements, and who had sailed round the world with

sVoanthcaotuvIehr,adwabsutthliettlesutpoerdiontwenitdhenitt  of the breakwater,
                                                             until the latter end

of 1824, when, on the 22nd and 23rd of November

of that year, a violent storm occurred from the south-

south-west, the most dangerous wind, and its effect upon

the breakwater above low water of spring tides was

to disarrange nearly the whole of the superstructure,

and to transfer a very large portion of the stone from

the south to the north slope. The effects of this severe

storm were considered to be so serious as to create con

Isiderable doubts as to the security of the breakwater,
and even Mr. Whidbey was alarmed.                            was accord

Iingly sent by the Admiralty to make a detailed report
as to what had occurred.               carefully examined the

whole work, and had numerous transverse and longi

tudinal sections taken to show its exact state, and

reported that the main body of the work remained as

substantial as ever, but that the rubble from above

low water to the top, on the south or sea slope, had
only been laid at an angle of 3 to 1, and the waves

during the storm above mentioned had in a great
              it
measure disturbed    6 it,and had transferred very large
                                            it
                                   1.
                                                 is
                                                               a
portion from the south to the north slope, increasing
                                       Now                   singular that my
the south slope to to

father, when  was decided to raise the breakwater

from the level of half tide (which was the original
intention) to above high water of spring tides, always
said that the outer slope should be laid at to
                                                                  3
                                                                    5

                                                                             1,
                                                                                 1.
After his death, however, Mr. Whidbey, with an

idea of economy, reduced the south slope to to so
    PLYMOUTH BREAKWATER.                                                                                 1G7

  that the effects of the storm had been to confirm my
father's views ; and not only had no real damage been

done, but it had consolidated and strengthened the

breakwater materially, and had given a practical
example as to the best mode of completing
5                                          and
           1,
                                                      2
                                                                 1.

                                                              it
                                                                          it,

                                                      I
  recommended that the outer slope should be finished at

    to and the inner at to  The Admiralty, how

ever, feeling their responsibility, thought advisable,
in addition to myself, to consult three other experienced
engineers, and the late Mr. Telford, Mr. Josias Jessop,

and my eldest brother, George, were appointed for that

  purpose.

     We proceeded to Plymouth in the month of March,
  1825, and spent several days in examining the break
  water. We finally recommended that the outer slope
  should be finished at to and the inner at to (as

     had previously suggested to the Admiralty), that

  the outer slope and top should be paved with rough
  square blocks set closely together, and that the inside
  slope should be paved with rubble. Mr. Whidbey was,
  unfortunately, of different opinion, and recommended

     nearly vertical wall of solid masonry on the top, of
  which the Admiralty did not approve, and adopted our
  plan, which was ordered to be carried into effect. Mr.

  Whidbey was so much annoyed that he resigned his
  situation and retired into private life near Taunton.
  This was much regretted, as he was most able and
aI                   a
                              5

                                           1
                                                                                  2
                                                                                                      1

    it

                 I

                                    it a

                                           I
  honest public servant, and beloved and respected by
  everybody who knew him.
                            was then appointed chief

  engineer, and upon considering the subject again,
  thought that, as the base or toe of the outer slope was
  the most exposed part of the work, would be better

  to strengthen by benching, which would effectually
  break the force of the waves before they could reach the

  main body of the work. This was approved by the

  Admiralty, and has since been carried into effect with

  complete success.
168 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

  I may here relate a curious anecdote in connection

with the death of Mr. Perceval. Messrs. Fox, Williams,

and Co., the great mining contractors in Cornwall, took

the first contract for blasting the rock and depositing

the stones on the breakwater. In 1815 Mr. John

Fox, a Quaker, having come to town on business,

breakfasted with my father and several others, including

myself. The conversation happened to turn on the death
of Mr. Perceval. Mr. Fox said in
                                    a simple, unaffected
Imanner, " remember it very well ;
Iand now I will tell it you.        it is a curious story,

Ifriend Williams at Redruth.  was then visiting my

                              went to bed as usual,

I Iand awoke in a most restless state, having had an
extraordinary dream.  dreamed that went to the
House of Commons, where I had never been before,

and having no admission into the interior of the House,

I sat down quietly on one of the benches in the lobby,

expecting a Cornish member who had promised when

I came to London to give me a ticket of admission to

hear the debates. Beside me on the bench sat a tall,

muscular man (describing Bellingham most exactly),

who appeared to be very restless, and continually asking
whether Mr. Perceval had come to the House, and every

now and then putting his right hand into his left breast

pocket. At length, after waiting some minutes, there

was a bustle, and several persons near me said that

Mr. Perceval was coming ; and shortly after Mr. Per

ceval made his appearance (Mr. Fox describing the exact
dress he wore, namely, a blue coat with gilt metal
buttons, white cravat and waistcoat, with nankeen

shorts, white stockings, and shoes, according to his

usual attire in the summer). Immediately after Mr.
Perceval made his appearance, the man who sat next

to me got up, and, advancing close to Mr. Perceval,

drew a pistol from his left breast pocket, fired, and
Mr. Perceval fell at his feet. This occasioned great

commotion. The man who fired the pistol was at once
ANECDOTE CONCERNING ME. PERCEVAL.                             169

Iseized, and rushed out and asked what had happened,

and the bystanders told me that Mr. Perceval had been
shot by a man named Bellingham, who was the iden

tical individual who had been a few minutes before

I Isitting by my side. When my dream had come to this
point awoke in the greatest agitation.       could not
account for it. I had never seen Mr. Perceval, nor
Ihis murderer, Bellingham ; had never been in the

Ilobby of the House, and had been in no way con

nected with Mr. Perceval, either by correspondence or
Iotherwise, still was so much affected by the dream
Ithat felt convinced that Mr. Perceval had been
Imurdered.
                passed the remainder of the night in
Igreat restlessness.
                      could not sleep, but was always

Ithinking of the dream, being thoroughly convinced
that it was true.      came down to breakfast at the

Iusual hour, in the most anxious and nervous state,

which in vain endeavoured to conceal as much as

possible ; but my friend and partner Williams and his

I                                            and said that looked very

                      ;;

             I
                II

                                        it,
whole family observed                        I

                                                          it
ill, and kindly asked me to explain the cause. After

much pressing,     told my story. Friend Williams

and the whole of his amiable family said that was

nonsense that had been unwell, and still was so,

and said that they would send for their family doctor.

said no     felt perfectly convinced that my dream

would, unfortunately, prove but too true, and that the        it,
mail, which would arrive in the evening, would bring
a confirmation of it. They tried to laugh me out of

but nothing would do therefore went about with my
                      ;I

friend Williams, transacting our mining business, being
convinced that the arrival of the mail in the evening
would confirm the truth of my dream in all particulars.
We returned to dinner at five o'clock at nine the mail
I
        I
                                       I;
arrived, and confirmed every particular of my dream.
   was afterwards taken to the House of Commons,

where had never been before, and correctly pointed
170 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

out the whole particulars of the melancholy transaction
exactly as they occurred, to the astonishment of my

I Ifriends and the bystanders. The whole story seems so
strange that cannot account for it.                 relate it to you

just as it occurred to me." 1

   This is certainly one of those marvellous instances of
foresight which baffles all comprehension. John Fox

was generally considered by his numerous friends and

acquaintance to be a most honest, plain, straight

Iforward, business man, and incapable of stating any
thing but what he believed to be true.              heard him

relate the dream, and my father and all present believed

it. The curious part of the story is how he should

have dreamed such a thing, being in no way connected

with it.

   About this time (1825) the several victualling depart
ments of the navy at Plymouth were very inefficient,
and divided into three or four establishments --one at

Southdown, opposite to Devonport, another at Cremill
Point, near Stonehouse, a third at Plymouth, and the
fourth in Plymouth town -- being several miles from each

other, so that the extra expense and delay in provision

ing vessels of war was considerable. Upon this being

represented to the Admiralty by the Victualling Board,

of which the late General Stapleton was the chairman,

they determined to make an entirely new victualling

establishment, concentrating the whole of the several

departments into one, upon a well-organized plan, so

that every operation should be carried out with the

greatest dispatch and economy.

   After much discussion Cremill Point, being nearest to
the dockyard at Devonport, and being in other respects,

I1 have always heard this story                     magistrate, and made an affidavit
in Cornwall ; and a pamphlet on the                 concerning it the morning after the
          atnowthevetriymes.carceM, rw. asFoxp,ubI  occurrence, and before the mail came
subject,                                            down.--C. G. C. R.
lished

have been told, was taken before a
              STEAMBOATS FOR TUE NAVY.           171

as to depth of water, &c., possessed of peculiar advan

Itages, was finally selected as the best place for the new

establishment, and was ordered by the Victualling

Board to prepare the necessary plans, specifications, and

estimates, and to see them carried into effect.

Whilst these works were proceeding, a proposal was

made to the Admiralty to apply the Cornish system of

engines to the Admiralty steam- vessels. Up to this time

steam, according to the principle of Watt, not exceeding

5 lb. pressure upon the square inch, was only used,

whereas in the Cornish condensing engines steam of the
Ipressure of 37 lb. per square inch was then usual, with
much greater effect and economy.           was accordingly

Isent by the Admiralty to Cornwall to investigate their
scheme.       took with me my principal assistant, the late

Mr. William Lewin, a very zealous, able, practical engi

neer. We examined the whole system very carefully at

different mines, measured the actual work done and the

quantity of fuel consumed, and came to the conclusion

that the Cornish system of high-pressure condensing
might be applied to the navy with the greatest advan

tage, and reported the same to the Admiralty. It was

not adopted at the time, although high-pressure con

densing engines have since been introduced into the

navy ; at the present time the pressure has advanced

to 27 and 28 lb. per square inch, and in the non-

condensing engines to 100 and 120 lb. Watt, although

he had tried steam at every temperature, yet generally

preferred low pressure ; his reason for this must have

been the imperfect means then at command for con

              and perhaps he was right at the time, for
trolling    it,

               I

                                       it
the manufacture of wrought iron had not then made

sufficient progress to render capable of resisting with
safety the great power of high-pressure steam. He

pointed out the way, and others, through the improve
ments in the manufacture of iron, have profited by his

discoveries.  must not omit, in justice to the very
172 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

talented Mr. Perkins, his views as to the value of high-

pressure steam, upon which he made numerous experi

ments ; amongst other things, he proposed to use it as a

destructive power in war, hy means of his celebrated

steam gun, which created much sensation at the time ;

and it is rather singular that this has not been taken up

in modern times, when every invention which can add

to the  methods of destruction is                 m"osstteagmreegduinly"  adopted.
There   can be no doubt that the                                           may be

used with the most terrible effect in fixed batteries

either for musketry or artillery, and probably the day

will come when we shall see batteries worked by steam,

with a great diminution of manual agency; and the men

employed to work them will be so protected as to render

the destruction of human life comparatively trifling.

Amongst the other legacies which my dear father

had left to me, was that of building London Bridge. He

had shown, to the satisfaction of the Committee of the

House of Commons, the impracticability of keeping up

the old bridge by any amount of repair or alteration ;

that it could not be rendered fit for the improvement

of the river Thames, nor for the continually increasing

      it
                                             it,
traffic which must pass over                      at any reasonable ex

pense, and that therefore an entirely new bridge would
be by far the most satisfactory. The House of Com

mons was so fully convinced by his arguments that                         a it

unanimously condemned the old bridge, and refused to
comply with the recommendation of the City of London

that    should be altered, but resolved that a new

bridge should be built according to the design made
by my father. An Act of Parliament was accordingly

passed to this effect, the late talented and energetic Mr.

Holme Sumner being the leading member of the Com

mittee. The Corporation demurred to this, saying

that there were other engineers equal to Mr. Rennie,

and demanding  a  public competition.             The adver

tisement for designs was accordingly issued, and
LONDON BRIDGE.  173

great number were sent in and referred to the Com
mittee of the House of Commons and the Government,
according to the previous Act. After considering
the various rival plans, it was finally decided that
that of my father was the only one which complied
with all the required conditions, and it was therefore
adopted. At this resolution great discontent was mani

fested by the different competitors. The Corporation
of London also objected to this decision, as they con
sidered that they ought to have been the sole judges.
But finding that the Government adhered to its de
cision, they submitted, at the same time urging that
they, who were to pay the expense of the new bridge,
ought to select the engineer that was to execute the

work. The Government agreed to this, subject to

their approval ; and finally the Committee appointed
by the Corporation to carry into effect my father's
design, fixed upon me as the engineer-in-chief. Mr.
Richard Lambert Jones was appointed the chairman of

the executive committee of the Corporation. A very

able and efficient chairman he was, and conducted the

whole to a conclusion, to the great satisfaction of the
Corporation and of the Government.

  The design, as I have already observed, was made by

my father, but no detailed working drawings, specifica

Ition, or estimate, had been prepared by him ; it fell to

my lot, therefore, to do this. As had acted under

Imy father during the construction of the Waterloo

and Southwark bridges, had become so thoroughly

acquainted with his system, that I had no very great

difficulty about it.

   The design consisted of five semi-elliptical arches, the
centre being 150 feet span, the two next arches 140 feet
span each, the two side or land arches 130 feet span
each ; the two centre piers were 24 feet thick at the

springing, and the two side piers 22 feet each; the
whole was to be built of the best grey granite. The
176 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

fitted to each other, were well caulked with oakum, and

the outside joints were covered with melted pitch, so as
to render them watertight ; the spaces between the three
rows of piles were then filled with strong well-puddled

clay.
   In addition to the above three rows of piles, there

was a fourth row on the inside, driven down in the

form of a parallelogram, corresponding with the exact
size of the foundation of the piers, and to the same
depth as the outer piles. Every tenth pile, and those
at the corners or angles, extended up to the level of
low water. Upon the heads of these piles longitudinal
and transverse braces were fixed across the inside of the
dam, at the level of low water, half tide, and high

water ; so that the dam was braced internally and
externally in every direction to resist the pressure of
the water, like a well-made cask. There was a powerful
steam engine, with the requisite pumps, attached to
each dam, to remove any water which might either rise
from the foundation or from the outside. Each dam

was provided with a trunk secured by a valve 3 feet
diameter, laid at the level of low water, so that in the
event of any unusual pressure of water coming against

the dam, these valves were opened, and the dam was
then filled with water, and all mischief was prevented.
The first pier cofferdam on the Southwark side was
completed, the water pumped out, and the earth was

excavated to the depth of 30 feet, going below low-
water mark of spring tides ; the bottom consisted
of the stiff London clay. Piles, consisting of Baltic
fir, elm, and beech, 22 feet long, and 12 inches dia
meter in the middle, properly hooped and shod with
wrought iron, were then driven 20 feet into the solid
ground, or until, with a weight of 12 cwt. falling 18 to
 20 feet, they would not move above an inch at a blow.
These piles were driven 3 feet 6 inches from centre to
centre, both in the longitudinal and transverse direc
LONDON BRIDGE.  177

tion. After having driven them, their heads were

cut off and accurately levelled. The loose earth be
tween their heads was then removed, to the depth of
12 inches, and the spaces filled in with stone bedded
in concrete ; all the rows of piles were then connected
together in the transverse direction by Baltic fir sills or
beams 14 inches square, well fitted to each pile head by

jagged wrought-iron spikes 20 inches long and three
quarters of an inch square, driven through the sills

into the pile heads below ; the spaces between the sills
were well filled in with stone and brickwork ; another
row of sills was then laid in the transverse direction

above the pile heads and spiked down to the lower sills
in the same manner ; the spaces between the upper sills
were then filled in with stone and brickwork. The
whole surface of the foundation was covered with elm

plank 6 inches thick, closely jointed together and
bedded in mortar, and well spiked down to the sills
below with jagged spikes 10 inches long and half an inch
square. Upon this platform the masonry was built,
each course diminishing in length and width by a
series of offsets 12 inches wide, until they reached the
shaft of the pier, when it was carried up solid to the
springing of the arches. The whole of the exterior
masonry was of the best whitish-grey granite, and'the
interior stone was of the best hard Yorkshire grit stone
from the quarries of Bramley Fall. The abutments
were constructed upon piles and masonry of the same

character as the piers.
    The first stone was laid with considerable ceremony

on the first pier cofferdam from the Surrey shore by
His Royal Highness the late Duke of York. The dam
was fitted up with great taste like an amphitheatre,
with seats all round, the whole being covered at top
with a handsome coloured canvas awning adorned
with numerous flags of all nations. The Lord Mayor,
assisted by the Aldermen, Common Councilmen, and

                                                                                          N
178 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Committee, with Mr. Jones, the Chairman, attended

in great state, and everything went off well. After
this pier had advanced nearly to the level of high
                                        a
water, one day whilst examining                standing upon
                                          it,
one of the cross beams, my foot slipped, and fell
                                                      II
headlong into the dam upon the top of the masonry         I;

fortunately, my left foot caught in nail in the beam,
and hung by for few seconds. This somewhat
broke and changed the direction of my fall, and
II  ;
pitched upon an inclined plank, upon which slid
      it
           it

            Ia
                                     ;
until struck my head against a stone my hat dead
                                           I
                                                   ;
ened the blow as was, however, was cut about

the forehead and half stunned. The after effects of

this fall were very serious my whole system got such

a severe shaking, that did not recover thoroughly

until nearly ten years afterwards, and carried on my
                                           I

large professional business with the greatest difficulty.

The works made satisfactory progress, and the centres

for the first and second arches from the Surrey shore

were soon fixed.

Each centre was composed of eight ribs, framed upon

the truss principle, resting upon continued series of
                                        a

wedges in one piece, laid horizontally and resting upon

tressels or legs formed by the piles of the cofferdams,

which had been cut off and levelled for that purpose.
The mode of setting and fixing the ribs was the same

as that adopted at the Waterloo and Southwark bridges.
A large lighter was constructed especially for this pur
pose. In the centre was placed
                                           strong framing,
    a

                   ;

                                                a

                              I
which rested upon eight screws, four in each row,

working in strong cast-iron box, to which levers

were attached, by means of which the screws and

framing above them could be gradually raised and
lowered at pleasure at one end of the framing there

was an upright scaffold. The centres, have already
said, consisted of eight main ribs framed together sepa
rately. As there was no room to frame these centres
          LONDON BRIDGE.                                              179

near the bridge, a special workshop and wharf were
provided by the contractors at Millwall, in the Isle of
Dogs; when ready they were launched in one piece,
from a properly-prepared platform, into the river, and
towed to the Southwark end of the bridge, where the
lighter, with its apparatus of powerful sheers, crabs,
and tackle, was in readiness to receive them ; by these

means they were gradually hauled up an inclined
plane, and then raised upright upon the platform, sup

ported by the frame and screws beneath, and firmly
braced to the scaffolding in the lighter; two centre

frames were thus placed upon it at one time, and ad

justed by the screws to an extra height of 2 feet, so

as to allow for any deficiency in the rise of the tide.

Two ribs having been placed upon the framing, the
lighter was hauled off from the shore and placed in
front of the opening in which the centre was to be, the

          it                                                      about half

                             2
                                                              ;

                                                             it,
lighter being moored 100 yards from

an hour before high water upon the turning of

the tide  was gradually allowed to float down with

the ebb current to its place. By the time that the
lighter with the centre ribs arrived in its exact position

there was always feet to spare, in order to allow for

any deficiency of the tide; as the tide fell the two

ribs were securely deposited in their places upon the

framing and wedges below them. It should be observed,

that upon the wedges there was an additional framing
so as to reduce the weight of the main ribs of the

centring. When the main ribs had been deposited

upon the framing wedges, they were securely braced
together until the whole number of ribs required for

each centre was fixed, when they were all braced firmly

together longitudinally, transversely, and diagonally.
This mode of fixing centres for arches of any span was

most successful and economical, and believe that my
                            it,
father was the inventor of
                              if

                                    it

                                   I

                                                                   2
                            may be termed an

invention. My excellent and talented friend, the late

                                                                  N
180 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Robert Stephen bod, adopted the same method for fixing
the tubes of the Conway and Menai Straits bridges.

He told me that he was not aware that my father had
                                        the ' History of
proposed it before him ; but in                             the
Britannia and Conway Bridges,'          edited, I believe,  by
the present Mr. Edwin Clarke, who was employed
under Mr. Stephenson at the Conway Bridge, it is

expressly mentioned that my father had previously

employed the same plan.

But to return to London Bridge. The works pro

ceeded successfully ; the fifth or last arch on the City

side was completed in 1829. The centres of the first,

second, and centre arches having been removed, it was

found that they had subsided only 3 inches each, which

was the exact distance that had been allowed for, with

an extra half inch for the centre arch. Upon examining
the arches and piers after it was supposed that they had
subsided, it was found that there had been an unequal

sinking, that the two centre piers had subsided on

Ithe east side slightly more than on the west side.

was much puzzled at this, and could not for some time

account for the difference. Three or four of the quoin
arch-stones of the second arch from the City shore had

been fractured for about 8 or 9 inches ; this, however,

was of no consequence, for it is always difficult in such

large arches to get the workmen to bed the quoins

Iaccurately. The same thing had occurred in the Waterloo

and other bridges ; was therefore led to investigate

the subject more thoroughly during the construction of

the new bridge. It was found that the cofferdams for

  I1 may mention here that before       the present magnificent bridge, which
                                        marks an era in engineering, is of
Telford built the suspension bridge
near Bangor, Mr. Rennie proposed a      course due to the great improvements
cast-iron bridge of several arches,     in the manufacture of iron since Mr.
on the site of the present Britannia    Bennie's time. Thus every age has
Bridge, which would ultimately have     its specialty, and what cannot be done
carried the railway, but the scheme     at one time becomes practicable at
                                        another.
was considered too bold at the time.
The possibility of the construction of
LONDON BRIDGE.  181

the piers in several instances were made in front of the

openings or arches of the old bridge, which could not

Ibe avoided. These dams necessarily still further ob

structed the waterway through the old bridge ; there
fore felt that it was absolutely essential to find relief

for the ebbing and flowing tides, detained both by the

old bridge and the cofferdams of the new bridge, and

accordingly recommended that, on the south side of the

main arch of the old bridge, which was only 80 feet

wide, two arches should be thrown into one, and that

the intermediate pier should be removed, by which

means a single wide opening would be made facing

the space between the cofferdams of the arch and the

centre on the Surrey side of the new bridge, but the

difficulty of doing this arose from the fact that the

traffic over the old bridge could not be interrupted for
I Ia moment.
soon, however, found an expedient;

ordered that the requisite number of logs of the

best Baltic fir timber 15 inches square should be pre

pared sufficiently long to extend over the two arches

I Iand piers of the old bridge which proposed to remove.

Having got these ready, stopped up one half of the

Iroadway, leaving the other half open for the traffic, and

working night and day, laid these whole timbers

spanning the two arches to the adjoining piers close to

gether, bolted them to each other, and secured them to a

longitudinal bearer of the same dimensions imbedded in

the masonry of the adjoining piers, so that the timbers

which were to form the increased opening rested firmly

Iupon them. Having done this, removed the masonry of

the intermediate arch by degrees from beneath the timber

Igirders, placing a strong diagonal strut or support

under each girder as proceeded, at the same time con

necting together all these diagonal struts. Having com

pleted one half of the temporary arch or opening, the
traffic was diverted over and the other half was com
it,

pleted in the same manner; the whole operation was
182 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.it,;

accomplished within ten days, and the traffic was not;
stopped for one hour. The intermediate pier of the old
arch was then removed entirely. As the work advanceda
to the fourth pier on the City side another similar
opening was made. These alterations relieved the river;
materially, and enabled the works to be carried on
much more securely, and greatly diminished the fallit
through the old bridge at low water. Nevertheless,
                 ;
there was increased scour against the dams where the
;openings were made, which occasioned the slight un
equal subsidence before mentioned. The last or fifth
arch was completed on the City side, January, 1829.

   It has been mentioned that Lord Liverpool's Govern

ment had always taken the greatest interest in the
construction of new London Bridge, and gave the
Corporation of London every support in their power,
not only for the accommodation of the great traffic
across but for the improvement of the Thames, which
the removal of the old bridge would effect and amongst
the men most zealous in Lord Liverpool's Government
were the late Marquis of Salisbury, then Lord Cran-
bourne, and the late Earl of Lonsdale, then Lord
Lowther both these noblemen had considerable talent,
and, fully alive to the advancing ideas of the day,
were mainly instrumental in forwarding this great
work. That amiable, able, and conscientious nobleman,
the Earl of Liverpool, had succumbed to the effects of
paralytic stroke, and the Duke of Wellington was now
Premier he took the greatest interest in the promotion
of London Bridge and everything connected with
so that the Corporation of London, who had hitherto

been radically inclined, or had rather been opposed to
the Tory Government, turned rather Conservative than
otherwise, and the Duke became most popular with
them he invariably, whenever he could, accepted
their invitations to Guildhall and the Mansion House,

and was always received by them with the greatest
LONDON BRIDGE.  183

respect and attention. Richard Lambert Jones, the
Chairman of the London Bridge Committee, was his

particular favourite, and he always shook Jones by the
hand, a favour which he did not accord to everyone.

   At this time the bridge had made considerable pro

gress towards completion, and the important question

arose, what was the best plan for the approaches ? It was

originally intended, in order to save expense, that the

old line of Fish Street Hill, on the City side, should be
adopted, pulling down such of the houses on this line

as might be necessary to make the incline not steeper
than 1 in 30 ; but inasmuch as the great traffic of
Upper and Lower Thames Street interposed materially
with the main body of the traffic coming north and
south, it became most important to consider how this

might be avoided, and the old idea of making an arch
over Thames Street was revived, and was favourably

Ireceived by the London Bridge Committee ; the ques

tion was accordingly referred by them to me. had

always felt that the old approach by Fish Street Hill

Iwas a very great difficulty ; but, restricted as was to
I Ithe old line of approach, felt that could not get out
Iof it without some pressing necessity ; was therefore

glad to have the opportunity of reconsidering the
subject, particularly when proposed by the Committee.

It was quite clear, that in any case an arch over

Thames Street to separate the great cart traffic of
that quarter from the main coach and passenger traffic
coming from the City, Southwark, and the northern

Iand southern parts of the town, was absolutely ne

cessary, and should have proposed it myself in the

Ifirst instance, if there had at that time been any

chance of its adoption, and am quite sure that my

father would have done the same. But if it had been

proposed to divert the traffic from the old line of

Fish Street Hill at -the first, it is most probable that

Iit would never have been carried ; was obliged, there
184 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

fore, to confine myself to the old approaches, leaving
the future to develop itself. The Committee, however,
having taken up the idea of an arch over Thames

Street, I was only too happy to fall in with it ; but as

nothing could be done without the sanction of the
Government, it was determined by the Committee
to bring the subject before them at once ; the more
so, as it would require a much larger sum than
originally calculated to make the approaches, for
which the Committee had no funds, and a new Act
of Parliament would be required. Plans and esti
mates were accordingly prepared for the new ap
proaches, and submitted to His Majesty's Government.
The Duke of Wellington took the greatest interest in
the subject, and investigated it to the fullest extent ; he
visited the place himself, he interrogated the Chairman
of the Committee and myself most closely, and at
length, being fully convinced that it was necessary,
gave the consent of the Government, provided that the
funds could be found. In order to meet this difficulty,
the Committee proposed to increase the coal tax, which,
with the necessary sinking fund, would pay off the
whole sum necessary to make the new approaches,
which were estimated at 1,400,000/., in a given number
of years. The Government consented to this, and the
requisite notices, plans, &c, were given and deposited
in the month of November, 1828.

   Early in 1829 the Bill was brought into Parliament,

and was most strongly opposed by the great northern
coal-owners, Lord Durham, Lord Londonderry, Lord
Lauderdale, and others, as well as by a considerable

body of Londoners, and after a hard fight the Bill
passed the House of Commons and got into the Lords;

but here the opposition was more violent and powerful
than ever. The Duke of Wellington, however, hav
ing been thoroughly convinced of the necessity and
justice of the measure, determined that it should be
LONDON BRIDGE.                     185

carried if possible, whilst the Opposition were equally
determined to throw it out. The Committee accord

ingly met in the Painted Chamber of the House of

Lords, and the extraordinary number of forty peers,

including seven cabinet ministers, assembled, the Duke

of Wellington being in the chair. The Opposition
comprised, amongst others, Earl Grey, his son-in-law
the Earl of Durham, the Marquis of Londonderry,
the Earl of Lauderdale, &c. Such a committee upon
a private Bill has never since been seen in the Lords,
and perhaps never will be again. The brunt of the
Ibattle fell upon me; was the leading witness, and
Ihad to establish the whole case.
                                   never felt more ner
Ivous in my life ; was to be prepared upon all points to
Idefend everybody else's errors as well as my own.
Iknew there were several weak points, and though had
Ian excellent case upon the whole, still felt the greatest

I Idifficulty about it ; knew also perfectly well, that if

broke down, my career as an engineer was ruined for

Iever, for the Government had pinned their faith upon

me ; therefore had made myself thoroughly master

of the subject, and determined to sink or swim with it.
Mr. W. Montague, then surveyor to the City, was a

very sensible, practical man, and of great experience in
the valuation of property, and possessed considerable

influence with the Corporation; but whether it was

jealousy at my being so much younger than himself, or
Iwhether he thought the post of honour should have been

given to him, cannot say, but he did not act cordially
with me. That very remarkable man, Richard Lam

bert Jones, the Chairman of the Bridge, with his usual

tact and sagacity, at once saw this, and thought that

if he was examined there might be some discrepancy
which our enemies would take advantage of ; he there

fore, with the concurrence of his Committee, determined

Ithat alone should fight the battle of the estimates,

upon which the whole fate of the Bill depended. It
180 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

was well, both for Montague and myself, that this

course was taken ; for Montague, when the first Bill of

1821 was carried, had made the surveys of the property

to be taken for the approaches on both sides of the

bridge, which was confined to 180 feet above the old
bridge. This limit ought to have been taken in a direct

line, at right angles to the old bridge ; but unfortu

nately it was taken according to the line of the shore,

which near the old bridge receded considerably, whilst

the old Fishmongers' Hall projected beyond making
if
                    if

                                          it
                                                it

                                                                        it,
the direct line, taken, as ought to have been, at

right angles to the old bridge, 20 feet longer than
measured according to the line of the shore. This

difference of 20 feet rendered  necessary that old

Fishmongers' Hall should be removed, and negotiations

immediately commenced between the London Bridge

Committee and the Fishmongers' Company with respect

to the purchase of this piece of land. The Fish

mongers' Company behaved very fairly they said that
a
                              a

                                                                                  ;
                                                                                            ;

                                             if
they did not wish to build new hall, as the existing

structure answered their purpose very well but they
were compelled to part with this 20 feet of ground, they

must build new hall, which they did not want to do.

However, as they had no wish to impede the construc
tion of the bridge and approaches, they were willing
to sell the strip of land on which part of their hall stood,
namely, 20 feet in width, for 20,000/. 1000/. per foot

at first sight appeared very large sum, although at
it

                               a

                        if
                               I
present would be considered remarkably cheap. The

Committee of the bridge, looking at the matter fairly,

resolved to pay the Fishmongers' Company the required
sum in full compensation for everything, and the Fish

mongers' Company might, they thought fit, build a

new hall at their own expense. This agreement was
then settled, provided that the Bill for making the new

approaches by an arch across Thames Street should pass

the legislature. Knowing this fact, was very anxious
                      LONDON BRIDGE.                        187

that this error of Mr. Montague's should not come out

before the Committee of the House of Lords, as it was
Ino doubt a great mistake, and if it had transpired, it
might materially have injured our case.  determined,

therefore, during my examination, to keep it out of

Iview as far as possible ; at the same time, if it was

fairly put to me, of course felt myself bound to give

every honest explanation. Perhaps Mr. Montague was

not anxious to be examined; anyhow, he was not,

and the whole burthen fell upon me.

The opposition in the Lords' Committee was headed

by the Earl of Durham, a very able and intelligent

man ; he would have made an excellent lawyer if

Providence had so designed  it,   and in this instance

                               I
he conducted his case admirably.      got through the

examination in chief very well, and the opposing

counsel commenced his cross-examination, and made

nothing of it. Then Lord Durham got up and for

three days    underwent as severe        cross-examina
I                                     ; aI
  Ition as  ever experienced, either before or since.I
      I
He seemed to be aware of all the facts, and omitted
                  it
nothing to render his case triumphant.        always

feared that he was coming to the mistake about Fish

mongers' Hall, but he never did, and had to lead

him away from         as far as possible at last he got

to the frontages in the different streets of the respective

parishes which were proposed to be taken, and the new

frontages of the new streets which were to be erected.

Here showed very clearly that the lineal frontage

according to the proposed new streets would be greater

than the frontages taken away. This, however, did

not satisfy his Lordship, for he contended that some

of the parishes would lose great deal more frontage
                         it I a
than they would obtain.
                                                        it
                            had some idea that this

would be the case, and therefore did not think neces

sary to take the individual frontage gained and lost by

each parish.  I  thought was quite sufficient to know
188 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

that upon the whole a greater line of frontage would be
given by the new approaches, than taken away from
the old. The parishes which had petitioned against the
Bill on this account, argued that in some of them the
rates would be greatly diminished, and that in others
Ithey would be greatly increased, which would cause an
unequal and unjust distribution.      still kept to my

point, and said upon the whole, without going into
detail, the parishes would be the gainers, and it was for
them to adjust the rates amongst themselves. Lord
Durham was very indignant at my obstinacy in main

I Itaining this point, and tried in every way to make me
confess that had made a mistake;            nevertheless

           iIf it,and said that   had tried to equalize
stuck to                         iIf
                                         I
all the frontages, my survey might have extended to

the Tower, and there would have been no end of the

expense. By this time he was losing his temper, and

said that           was not very careful might go to the
Tower still. At this the Committee smiled, and his

Lordship, being fairly baffled, sat down, and having
                                            I,

been told that they had no further questions, left the
witness-box with the greatest alacrity.

   It was considered that had made out the case for the
                    I

Bill so completely, both as regards the estimates and the
absolute necessity, in a public point of view, of carrying

the new approaches into effect, that no other professional

witness was put into the box, except the present able
chamberlain, Mr. Scott, then chamberlain's chief assistant,

who gave such clear and straightforward evidence with

regard to the funds which were disposable by the Corpo
ration, and the way in which they were administered,

that the Committee of the Lords passed the Bill for the

London Bridge Approaches with but few dissentient

voices. The Duke of Wellington, and five or six Cabinet

Ministers with him, attended every day, and in fact kept

Parliament sitting to pass the Bill.  It    was curious to

observe that he never for a moment interrupted the
                 LONDON BRIDGE.                    1S9

opponents of the measure; he gave them full scope, and
never said a word until they had had their say, then he
put the question, and carried it without difficulty.

   After the fifth arch, the first on the Surrey side, was
keyed, the sinking was observed to be 4 inches, or
Iabout 1 inch more than the others.      could not very
Iwell account for this.
                         also observed that two of the

quoins on the south-east end of the fourth arch from
the Surrey shore had splintered off at the soffit, but no
crack could be observed in the spandril walls ; but upon
levelling the piers, it was found that the east end had
Isubsided from 10 to 14 inches more than the upper or

west end. This could account for in no other way

but that there had been a greater scour here than at

Ithe upper end, and that the piles had to some extent
been laid bare.  levelled the arches and piers con

Istantly after this for several months from a fixed

standard gauge, but could find no alteration ; there

fore felt satisfied that the whole of the pier abutments

had come to their final bearing, and the works were

continued as fast as possible towards completion.

In 1830 the Duke's Government retired, and he

himself became as unpopular as he before had been

Ipopular; yet he never deserted London Bridge, and
was more frequent in his visits than ever.         often

used to attend him at five and six in the summer morn

ings ; he generally came on horseback, and remained
from half an hour to an hour, and sometimes more
if necessary. At length the whole bridge and the
             were completed, and His     Majesty, King
approaches   the special request of the  Corporation of

William, at
London, condescended to fix a day on which he would
open the bridge in person. Earl Grey, who had

strongly opposed the Bill for the improved approaches
two years before, now, as Premier, accompanied His
Majesty to inaugurate the opening of the same. Per
haps, as a spectacle of the kind, it was the most
190 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

brilliant of any that had taken place for fully a
century ; and the whole Corporation, including the
Bridge Committee, did everything in their power, for
the honour of the City of London, to render the
pageant as splendid as possible. The whole of the
space at the north or City end of the bridge was
covered with a magnificent tent, several hundred feet
long, decorated in the greatest taste with the flags of
all nations, and with ancient and modern arms grouped
round the standards forming the supports of the
tent, under which were arranged tables for 1400
guests, for whom a splendid collation was provided.
His Majesty, King William, came in the royal barge
in state, accompanied by all his ministers, and upon
his arrival was greeted with a salute of twenty-one

guns from the Tower. All the piers and arches were

decorated with lofty standards displaying the national
emblems ; the whole of these, as well as the great tent
and decorations, were under the direction of Mr. Stacey,
of the Ordnance department of the Tower, and the
greatest credit is due to him for the admirable taste
which he displayed. The ceremony consisted in King
William walking over the bridge, accompanied by his
ministers, the Lord Mayor and Corporation, and the
Bridge Committee. When His Majesty arrived at the
Southwark end a balloon ascended, carrying Mr. Richard
Crawshay ; the Tower guns then sent forth another
salute, and King William and his cortege returned to
the tent at the City end of the bridge, where they
partook of lunch with the usual ceremonies, and
returned by water as they came, with another royal
salute from the Tower. The day was remarkably fine,
the river was covered with boats filled with gaily-
dressed people ; the wharves, warehouses, and bridges
were thronged with spectators ; in fact, it was a great
metropolitan holiday ; everything went off well, and

all appeared to be satisfied ; I was particularly so. I
LONDON BRIDGE.                      101

had been very hard worked, I may say almost night

and day, for some time past, to get things ready, and
was of course rather tried ; nevertheless, the success

which attended the whole rendered me completely

Iunmindful of myself, and forgot all my fatigues,
Ifor was amply rewarded for all my troubles and

anxieties.

  A few days after the opening of London Bridge,

Jeffreys, the cheesemonger of Ludgate Hill, presented a

petition to Parliament through the well-known Henry
Hunt, stating that the new bridge was coming down.

Jeffreys was very much annoyed because he had re

ceived no recompense for his repeated proposals with

regard to the new approaches, though he was never

regularly employed ; but he was one of those active,
Ifintelligent persons, who are always interfering in
matters which do not concern them.  he had de

voted himself to his own business he might have

done well ; but, unfortunately, he neglected this, and

fancied himself a great engineer, a post for which

he was absurdly incompetent. He mistook his voca
tion, and in attempting to do that for which he was

wholly unfit, he neglected the business of a tradesman,

for which he was thoroughly suited. The petition

ended in its being referred to a Commission, consist

ing of J. Walker, Telford, and Tierney Clark, who

examined the bridge carefully and made their report,

which was colourless and came to nothing, as the

subsidence spoken of had taken place two years and
a half before, and had not increased, nor has it done so

up to the present day.

   In all works of great magnitude, and particularly in
such a difficult situation as that in which London

Bridge is built, it is impossible to be certain of attain

ing absolute perfection, but the Committee, being per
fectly satisfied of the stability of the new bridge,

Idetermined to remove the old one forthwith, and
192 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

received orders accordingly. The removal was con

tracted for by Messrs. Jolliffe and Banks, for the sum
of 10,000/., they having the benefit of the old materials,
except in so far that they were to fill up the holes in
the river below both bridges, to the extent of 14 feet

below low water of spring tides, which was rather more

than the average depth of the river in the vicinity ;

they were also bound to remove the whole of the
foundations of the piers, starlings, &c., of the old

bridge, to the same depth. The whole of these opera
tions were completed in the year 1834, when the river,
after a lapse of 658 years, was restored to its natural

state.

   The history of old London Bridge is replete with
interest, and forms a very curious epoch in the annals
of bridge building before the embankment of the river

Thames by the Romans. The Southwark side, which

is in many places considerably below the level of high

water of spring tides, was frequently flooded, and nume

rous creeks were formed in
        ;                                          so that the river must
                                           ;

                                              it,
have been very unequal in its depth, and filled with

numerous shoals, and fordable at low water in several

places near London and there was evidently an ap
pearance of a ford at the site of old London Bridge, as
in many cases the piers were founded on the original

ground, which must have been dry, or nearly so, at low

water these piers were in many instances wider than

the adjoining arches, so that they offered considerable

obstruction to the free flow of the tidal and fresh waters

through the bridge. These obstructions necessarily
increased the velocity and scour of the current, and

threatened to carry away the old bridge. Great star
lings, or timber casings of piles, were erected round the

bridge piers, and the spaces between them were filled

in with chalk. These starlings still further narrowed
the openings of the arches, so that at low water some
of them were little more than or 10 feet wide, and
                                                   8
LONDON BRIDGE.  193

the obstructions became so great, that the fall at low
water increased to 5 feet perpendicular. Five openings
on the south end and one in the north end were occu

pied by water-wheels for pumping water for the City.
The obstruction caused by these works was so great that

the celebrated Smeaton was employed by the Corpora
tion of London to take down the two arches near the

centre, and replace them by a single one of 80 feet span.
   The original bridge is said to have been built in the

year 1176 ; but between that time and the period of its
removal in 1834, it underwent so many alterations and
changes that it may almost be said to have been rebuilt

several times. It was originally covered with houses,

as everyone knows, leaving a narrow passage between
for the traffic. To describe the numerous alterations

would require a large volume, and the reader is there
fore referred to an interesting account of this curious
old structure called ' The Chronicles of Old London

Bridge.'

    Numerous speculations were made by scientific men,
engineers and others, on the effect the removal of the

old bridge would have upon the river. My father
pointed out the probable results in a very simple
manner ; he said that the river was in an artificial

state in consequence of the old bridge acting as a dam
to the free passage of the waters upwards and down
wards, both tidal and fresh ; and the consequence was,
that the river above had to a certain extent accom
modated itself to circumstances. By the removal of
this obstruction the river would soon be reduced to
its natural level ; the fall of 4 to 5 feet through the

bridge would be removed, consequently the tide would
rise so much higher and fall so much lower above
bridge, and so much more tidal water would be ad
mitted above the old bridge throughout the whole
 length of the tidal flow as far as Teddington Lock ;
and this increased quantity of tidal water passing

                                                                                  o
194 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

up and down twice each way during the twenty-four
hours would scour the bed of the river, and thus re
move the great quantity of mud deposited along the

shores. And further, that the drainage of the metro
polis, and in fact the whole valley of the Thames, at

least as far as Teddington, would be greatly improved ;
and the water, being constantly changed, would be
clearer and fresher. He further said, that the actual
level of high water would scarcely be materially
affected, perhaps not exceeding 5 or 6 inches ; and
lastly, that the process would be gradual, and that it
would take several years before the river would attain
its final and natural state. Such has proved to be the

result.

   As the works of new London Bridge proceeded atten
tion was drawn to the irregular outline of the wharves,

which were not only unsightly but extremely injurious to

the regular passage of the waters. At this time also,

people having visited Paris and other great continental
cities, were struck with the architectural beauties which

they had seen, and became much disgusted with the
mean, shabby-looking appearance of London; and well
they might, for there were no great leading thorough
fares worthy of the name. Cockspur Street, leading from
the Strand to Pall Mall, was scarcely 20 feet wide ;
the Royal Mews occupied Trafalgar Square; the

Haymarket was encumbered by haycarts ; Cross's
Menagerie and Exeter Change blocked up the Strand
near Waterloo Bridge ; the connection between Hol-
born and Oxford Street was round by old St. Giles',
and Farringdon Street was filled with a market, and
surrounded by undertakers. Regent Street had been
commenced under the direction of that clever architect
Nash, which, from his novel mode of grouping shops
into distinct masses of different styles, excited consider
able attention, and was totally different to anything we
had hitherto seen in the metropolis. This great and
COMMITTEE OP TASTE.  195

really magnificent street was, I am told, entirely his

own idea, and according to the opinion of the late Sir
Robert Smirke, was a Herculean task, on account of
the great variety of interests to be dealt with, and he

told me that nobody but the indefatigable Nash could
have carried it through. He built a house there for
himself, now the Gallery of Illustration, opposite to the

Club Chambers near Waterloo Place, where George IV.
honoured him with a visit. In fact, just about this

time there was a perfect mania for architectural im

provements.

  A committee, called the Committee of Taste, was

accordingly appointed, in order to design such improve
ments as were imperatively required in the neighbour
hood of Charing Cross, the Strand, and Holborn and
Oxford Street. This Committee consisted of the late

Lord Farnborough, John Wilson Croker, Sir John
Soane, Sir Robert Smirke, Nash, and two or three others,

and certainly no committee ever discharged its duties
better. To its labours we are indebted for Trafalgar
Square and the improvements in the Strand, Cockspur
Street, the Haymarket, the old Opera House, and those
between Oxford Street and Holborn, which are really

very good, and the architecture, although not alto

gether faultless, is nevertheless, taken as a whole, very
effective ; in fact, nothing like these improvements

has been effected since. The new street from Waterloo

Bridge to Oxford Street, undertaken soon after, has
been a miserable failure; instead of taking a direct
line, they availed themselves as far as they could of

the old miserable intervening streets, so that this
thoroughfare, which ought to have been one of the
best in London, is now one of the worst, and the
increase in the value of the property on each side has

been very little. But if this street had been made in

a straight line, and of ample width, the shops and
buildings on both sides would have been of a superior

                                                                                       o2
196 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

character, and would have yielded far higher rents,
which would have gone a long way towards paying

part of the expenses, if not the whole.

   About this time Sir F. Trench, who moved in the most

fashionable circles and was a great amateur in architec
ture and fine arts, was seized and enraptured with the
idea of constructing quays along the banks of the
Thames, between Whitehall and Blackfriars Bridge, and
converting the space so recovered from the shore of the
Thames into a handsome carriage-drive and promenade
ornamented with gardens and fountains. He applied
to the late Mr. Philip Wyatt and myself to assist him

in preparing the designs and in obtaining an Act of

IParliament to carry it into effect. At the request of the

London Bridge Committee had previously, in company
with the late Mr. W. Mylne, prepared a general plan
for this object, but it went no farther on account of the
difficulty of raising the funds. Trench, however, over
looked this, and said he had no doubt that sufficient
money would be obtained. He accordingly, with his

great influence and indefatigable activity, formed a
committee of the highest class ; neither were the ladies
excluded ; amongst others, the beautiful Duchess of
Rutland took the greatest interest in the undertaking,
and at the first meeting, which took place at Her Grace's
house, she was unanimously voted to the chair, and
conducted everything in the most business-like manner.
Lord Palmerston, then Secretary for War, took a leading
part, and it is singular that many years later his Lord
ship, then Premier, should have proposed a similar
measure, and the continuation of the coal duties for
carrying it into effect, which was adopted; but when
we proposed the undertaking and the mode of raising
the funds, notwithstanding our powerful committee, the
idea was considered as chimerical. Trench, however,
was so confident that the means would be found, that
he went to considerable expense in preparing a book
LONDON BRIDGE APPROACHES.  197

ornamented with numerous beautiful engravings show
ing the effect which would be produced by the under
taking, to which Wyatt and myself contributed our

share. A solicitor, named Leech, was appointed,

notices for going to Parliament were duly given, and
the necessary plans and estimates were deposited ; but
when the question as to the means of raising the funds

came before the Managing Committee, everybody was
at a loss. To form a company appeared impossible, as
it did not appear that sufficient revenue would be

derived from 4the; undertaking ; and as to raising funds
by increasing and extending the coal tax, the Govern

ment was decidedly opposed to it; they said they

had done as much in this way as possible for London

Bridge, and that the public would not submit to any
further tax of the kind. Thus, after a considerable

deal of useless trouble and expense, Trench, Wyatt, and
myself were obliged to abandon this great undertaking,
which has since been carried into effect nearly upon the

same principles as we recommended.

  IAs to the architecture of the approaches to London

Bridge, referred the subject to my brother-in-law,

ICockerell, a very accomplished and competent authority,

and exhibited his designs to the Committee as well
as some of my own. They, however, considered them

to be too ornamental and costly, although they were

as plain and simple as these important approaches
rendered necessary. The Committee, having rejected
them, referred the subject to the late Sir Robert
Smirke, then one of the Crown architects, and he
designed the present buildings on both sides of the

bridge, as far as King William Street on the north, and

the old townhall of Southwark on the south ; and
certainly, with all due respect to my late friend Sir
Robert Smirke, a more unworthy set of buildings was

never designed. Thus not only has a rare oppor

tunity of making handsome and appropriate buildings
IDS AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENN1E.

to one of the greatest thoroughfares in the world been
lost, but the buildings are so low and badly built, that
the advantages of the ground, which it must have been
foreseen were capable of almost unlimited development
as regards rental, have been in a great measure thrown

Iaway.

    Whilst building London Bridge had also numerous

other works to attend to, namely, the Admiralty
works, the harbours of Ramsgate, Sunderland, Dona-
ghadee, Port Patrick, Kingstown, and Port Rush,
Staines Bridge, the bridge across the Serpentine in
Hyde Park, finishing the Eau Brink Works, the
Nene and Witham outfalls, the Ancholme Drainage,
together with a good deal of miscellaneous business.
As the harbours and Admiralty works are fully de

Iscribed in my book on ' British and Foreign Harbours,'

   will proceed to the drainage : first, the Eau Brink.

I have already said that the Great Cut was opened in

 1821, just at the period of my father's death ; ac
cording to the latest Act, the engineers of drainage and
navigation were obliged to report within twelve months
after the opening of the cut ; they were obliged to
 examine the whole, and report how far they had been
 completed, and what further was necessary in order to
 render them efficient. Mr. Telford and myself accord
 ingly devoted several days to this ; on examining the
 Eau Brink Cut we found that it had been made in

 exact conformity with Huddart's design, as specified by
 the Act ; but, notwithstanding, the upper end was too
 small, and the scour there was so great that it
 threatened to break through the bank across the upper
 end of the old channel, and thus revert to its old course.
 We therefore recommended that it should be increased
 one-third in area, the greatest part of the increase being
 at the upper end, and that the money destined in
 the estimate for clearing away the shoals in the river
 between the cut and Denver Sluice should be used for
         EAU BRINK CUT-- NENE.                                   199

the purpose of widening the cut, as the bed of the

river did not require clearing This report took the

Commissioners by surprise. They said they had been

deceived, and did not believe that it was required, and

would have the whole subject investigated by other

engineers, which was accordingly done. However, it
ended in proving that Mr. Telford and myself were
right, and the enlargement of the Eau Brink Cut

was made under my direction ; this had the effect of

lowering the low-water mark at the upper end 2

feet more, making 7 feet altogether. The scour of

the cut was so much more than estimated, that the

banks between Denver Sluice and the cut were in

many places undermined, the channel was diverted
from the old quays in Lynn, and several buildings on

the opposite shore were washed down, and as the Eau

Brink Commissioners were bound under the Act to

compensate for any damages done to any interest or

party,   they, the Commissioners,    were compelled   to pay
for all                                to the bank   owners,
          these damages -- 50,000/.

28,000/., and 700/. a year to Lynn Harbour, 10,000/.

to the Marshland Drainage, and other minor sums.
Having settled this, they obtained an Act to relieve

themselves from all further liability.

   My father had been employed by the Duke of Bed
ford, and other great landowners in the north level

of the fens, to consider the best plan of improving the

Nene, so as to render it a good outfall for the drainage

of the extensive low fen lands bordering
         a                                                       which,
           a

                                  ;
                                              a

                                                            it,
on account of their bad drainage, were frequently

subject to floods, and comparatively valueless. My

father wrote very able report on the subject, and

recommended that the Nene should be deepened,

enlarged, and lowered throughout its course from

Peterborough to the sea that new channel should

be made from place called Rummery Mill above, to

the Horse-shoe Bend, below Wisbeach (for the course
200 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN BENNIE.

followed by the river through the town was so crooked

and confined that it could not be sufficiently improved

without incurring great unnecessary expense) and

that the navigation to and from the town should
still be preserved by locks connecting the old with

the new channel ; and also to make a new outfall

for the river from Kinderly's Cut to a place called
Crab Hole, in the Great Wash, where there was

ample depth of water. He said that the new out

fall might be made partly within the estuary and

partly in the marshes without, to Skates Corner,
but that then it would neither be so direct nor so

effectual as if made entirely within the banks of the
Nene estuary. Mr. Rennie's report was approved of,

but the necessary means for carrying it into effect

were wanting, so the matter for the time lay dormant.
Subsequently Mr. Telford and myself were appointed

the engineers, and reconsidered the whole matter.

Finding the people of Wisbeach were violently opposed
to the main channel passing by their town, we were

obliged to give up this part, as well as the upper
portion of the channel to Peterborough, and confine

ourselves to the improvement of the outfall below

Wisbeach, and to commence the new outfall near the
Ilower end of Kinderly's Cut.
                               strongly advocated my
father's plan of making the new outfall direct to Crab
Hole, within the old banks, but as the first expense
would have been a little more, although far less in the
end, as has been proved, it was resolved to make the

new outfall to Skates Corner, partly within, partly
without the old banks.

   An Act of Parliament was accordingly obtained,
and Messrs. Jolliffe and Banks became the contractors.

The works commenced, and the outfall was opened in
1831. Whilst it was in progress Mr. Telford and

myself frequently visited the works together, and in
June we went down the old estuary of the Nene in
                           NENE.                       201

a boat at low water, for the purpose of examining
more minutely the state of the channels near Crab

Hole and Skates, where we proposed that the new

outfall should enter the estuary. It was a very stormy

day, accompanied by lightning, thunder, rain, and a
strong south-west wind. We got as far as Crab Hole at

low water, when the weather beat us completely, and
we were obliged to walk over the muddy shore half
way up to our knees, and drenched to the skin. We
had sent some refreshment to an old house, called

King John's House, near the bank, said to have been
erected during his reign, and to have afforded His
Majesty shelter after his retreat from Lynn. The rain

now came down heavier than ever, so that we had no

aolltder"naptuivbelicb"ut   to retrace our steps back  to the dirty
                           at the Ferry, called Cross  Keys, about

I3 miles distant. We got back, thoroughly soaked,
about three in the afternoon.     immediately stripped

and went to bed. Old Telford, being a strong, hearty
man, of about seventy, instead of following my ex
ample, ordered a large fire to be made in the only

Isitting-room there was, called for the newspaper, and

sat himself down to dry. After two hours' nap was

thoroughly refreshed, and went down to the sitting-

I Iroom. When entered there was such a steam that

could hardly see anything ; but, approaching the fire,

found Telford had nearly dried himself, and he abused

me thoroughly for being so effeminate as to go to bed.
He suffered, however, severely afterwards for his im

prudence ; for he was taken with a violent diarrhoea at
Cambridge on his return, and was confined there for a
fortnight, and escaped with difficulty with his life ; but

the diarrhoea haunted him more or less ever after, until

Ihis death. He was a most agreeable, facetious com
panion, and                passed many happy days with him.

Previous to the diversion of the old channel through

the new outfall, Mr. Telford and myself ordered the
M2 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

contractors to assemble as many men, horses, carts, and
materials as possible, in order that the old channel

should be stopped up during the neap tides.

   When everything was ready we went down and met
the contractors, Messrs. Jolliffe and Banks, and imme

diately gave them orders to commence filling up the old

channel ; they had about thirteen hundred men, and
horses, carts, and materials, and appliances of all kinds,
and set to work in right good earnest. The Corpora
tion of Wisbeach, who had always opposed the measure,
although they were compelled by the Act to contribute

               it,
                     it

                               ;

                             if
                                                  I,
30,000/. towards which was perhaps the cause, offered

every obstruction in their power, and said that the new

outfall was not excavated deep enough according to the
Act, and came down in their barge with their law

officers, giving us official written notices to stop all

proceedings. At this critical moment the contractors

were rather taken aback Mr. Telford and however,

nothing daunted, ordered the men to proceed stopping

the channel, and to take no notice of the Corporation.
We further told them, that they did not go away,
their barge and all in would be swamped, and that the

responsibility would rest entirely with them. Seeing
that we were in earnest they turned tail, and, leaving

their protest, returned to Wisbeach. The third day

afterwards the old channel was completely closed, and

the Nene diverted to its new outfall. It should be

observed here, that Mr. Telford and myself, calculating
upon the loose nature of the soil, which was silt, and

which we felt confident would scour when fairly acted

upon by the current, only made the contract for the
excavation to the level of low water of spring tides;

and therefore  would have wasted money to have
               ; it

                                                                            a
excavated that which we knew the current would do

for nothing. The current at first appeared to have
very little effect and the Duke of Bedford's manager,
the late excellent and talented Tycho Wing, school
NENE.  203

fellow of mine at Dr. Burney's, became much alarmed,

Iand was sadly afraid that the outfall would be a failure.

Telford and knew better, and assured him that our

only doubt was whether the current would not be too
strong, and render it necessary to protect the sides
with stone. This we considered to be no disadvan

tage --on the contrary a great benefit; for making

the cut small in the first instance, we should always
be able to regulate the scour whenever it might have a
tendency to enlarge the cut beyond the size necessary
to discharge the drainage water effectually, at the same
time preserving a sufficient depth for navigation ; but

if it had been too large in the first instance, it could

not have been properly adjusted afterwards. Mr. Wing
was comforted by our assurances; still he had his

doubts, and two months elapsed before any sensible
scour appeared to take place. The fact was, the fall in

the bottom was so little, that the current had to remove

the obstacles to its progress, which it could only do by
degrees, when it had accumulated sufficient fall or head ;

 having done this, its progress was most rapid, and
 increased daily, so that within six months after it had
 been opened it had scoured out the bottom to 9 feet
 below low water of spring tides; the sides also had
 been regularly scoured away, and the area of the cut
 was increased to three times its original size. Spring
 tides, which had scarcely exceeded a few feet at Wis-

 beach, and not much more at Cross Keys, rose remark
 ably at both places, so that vessels of considerable
 tonnage could reach Wisbeach even at neaps, whereas

 before they could only get up there at spring tides.
 The trade of the port increased so rapidly, that they
 were soon enabled to pay off the 30,0007. which they
 had been previously obliged to borrow to contribute
 to the cost of the outfall.

     The outfall by the scour had now attained its proper

  dimensions, and we recommended that the banks should
204 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN KENNIE.3 it,

be paved with stone, in order to prevent them froma

Ibeing enlarged, which was accordingly done. The out;
                                                                                             9
fall went on improving until the year 1837, when ex
amined and found that the low-water mark had fallena
        a
10 feet inches at Cross Keys Bridge, that there was;
a rise of tide of 20 feet at springs, and depth of feet
at low water, and rise proportionate at Wisbeach atit
both springs and neaps so that vessels drawing 16 feet
could go up to the town at springs, and 12 feet at neaps,
and the whole of the surrounding lowland country was
completely drained and the property nearly doubled in
value. Mr. John Young was appointed engineer under
me for paving the new outfall with stone, and afterwards
entered business upon his own account as merchant and
shipowner at Wisbeach; and by his talents, energy,
and industry has since realized an ample fortune, has

been elected mayor several times, and has become
member for the county of Cambridge.

  It had long been favourite idea with the late Lord

William Bentinck and his friend Mr. Thomas Hoseason,
of Banklands, to make bridge across the Nene estuary,
at Cross Keys, in order to shorten the distance between
the south of Lincolnshire and Norfolk. The bridge
over the lower end of the Eau Brink had been com

pleted, and another had been made at the Fossdyke
Wash by my father, for the Welland so that was
only necessary to make another across the Nene estuary,
at Cross Keys, to complete this desirable line of com

munication. A company was accordingly formed for

this purpose, of which Lord William Bentinck was the
head. An Act was obtained at the same time as the
Nene Outfall Act, and was appointed the engineer.
The Nene Outfall Commissioners obtained clause in
the Bridge Act compelling the Company to build the
bridge over the Nene Outfall Cut at the same time;
this told them was very unwise, for as the bridge was
to be built of wood, with drawbridge opening in
I  I

              a
                                           a
               NENE, WHITTLESEA MERE.  205

the centre to allow vessels to pass, it would be impossible
to drive the great piles forming the piers of the bridge
sufficiently deep to be below the scour in the outfall ;
the better plan would be to wait until the outfall

had been scoured to its full depth, and then build the

Ibridge. My opinion was overruled ; the bridge was

built; and it was impossible, as expected, to drive

the piles to the requisite depth. Where the full effect
of the scour had taken place it was found necessary to
secure the piles of the bridge by throwing a great
mass of stone round them. This materially obstructed
the current through the bridge, until at length there
was a fall through it of from two to three feet, which

greatly injured the drainage, so that the Nene Outfall

Commissioners ultimately got an Act to make a new

Ibridge for the Company at   thaevoCidoemdmiisfsiothneersb' ridegxpeenhsaed.

All this might have been
been built as  originally recommended. The spot

where this bridge and line of embankment is made is
the same place where King John's army was lost,

and where my father was nearly drowned some years
before, crossing in his carriage, being overtaken by
the tide. Six thousand acres of this Wash have been

reclaimed from the sea by myself ; and where once the

tides used to ebb and flow, are now fields under culture

producing the finest crops.

Notwithstanding all the attempts to improve the

river Nene above Wisbeach, nothing had been done,

Iand was again requested by the Duke of Bedford's

advisers to examine the subject and make a compre
hensive plan by means of which Whittlesea Mere and
all the low fenny country around it might be drained,
Ito the extent of 55,000 acres, it being then little
better than a marsh.         accordingly surveyed and

Ilevelled the whole country, and made my report in
1837.  showed that by improving the Nene from

Peterborough to the outfall, and making a main drain
it,206 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.
     it,
to Whittlesea Mere to connect it with the Nene, and by
            amaking a catchwater drain round the base of the sur
                                                           arounding hills, so as to discharge the highland water
into the Nene at Peterborough and the Ouse at Her
                                                                     6mitage Sluice, the whole country would be thoroughly
well drained, the navigation would be greatly improved,
                                                                           isand there would be an ample supply of fresh water at
moderate cost. This plan was approved of by the late
Mr. Robert Stephenson, but was not adopted. Thea   2
Middle Level Corporation, in whose district was the7    5,
greatest part of the lowlands to be drained, would not
listen to but insisted on draining them by the Ouse,
10 miles farther distant. This measure was carried out
at double the cost of my plan, and minor plan sub
stituted for the improvement of the Nene, which said
to have cost great deal more than any benefits derived
from although the Eau Brink Cut had lowered the
low-water mark on the Ouse nearly feet. Still the
sands below Lynn, at the mouth of the Ouse, accu
mulated to such an extent, that the navigation up to
that town was so seriously obstructed that moderate-
sized vessels could only come up to the town at spring

tides, and they frequently got ashore upon the nume
rous shoals, lost their tide, and were detained for

days together, besides suffering considerable injury.
The drainage interests, moreover, complained that the
water in the Ouse did not fall low enough to enable
the middle and south level lands to be properly
drained. In fact, the good effects produced by the
Eau Brink Cut were decreasing, in consequence of the
waters not being able to get off below Lynn, so that
they were held up to the extent of feet at the lower
end of the Eau Brink Cut, thus reducing the original
fall gained by that cut from feet to whilst the fall
gained by the Nene Outfall had been fully 10 feet

   inches to feet, being difference of feet in favour

of the Nene. A committee, consisting of Lord W.
6                                                  6

                             1
                                     1
                                    GREAT WASH.  207

Bentinck, Sir William Foulkes, and others, leading pro

prietors and parties interested, requested me to examine

Iinto the whole subject and report as to what was best to

be done. accordingly employed nearly twelve months

in surveying and levelling the Great Wash and the

mouths of the Ouse, Nene, Welland, and Witham, which

are the principal rivers discharging their waters into the

Great Wash, and which drain all the adjacent fen lands,

alamndosu.ntinI gfotounndeatrhlyat  a  million of acres, besides the high
                                       by improving all the mouths of

these rivers an additional fall of 7 feet might be gained

for the Ouse, 2 feet for the Nene, and a similar amount

for the Welland and the Witham, and recommended that

all these rivers should be united and made to discharge

their waters into one great main channel in the centre

of the Great Wash, and that the main and minor

channels should be properly embanked. By this means
not only would all these rivers be much improved,

and the drainage and navigation rendered as perfect
as they could be made, but, in addition to this, from

150,000 to 200,000 acres of land would be gained
from the Wash, or, in other words, a new county, of

most valuable land, would be added to the kingdom.

This project was so vast and important that it took the

world by surprise. It was impossible to deny the sound

ness of the principles or data upon which it was founded,

or the vast importance of it in a national point of view,

if means could be found to carry it into effect ; but here

was one of the great difficulties, and another still greater

presented itself, namely that of uniting together the

vast number of conflicting interests concerned, so that

they might combine together as one whole body for the

completion of the undertaking.

After the plan had been published and promulgated

Ifor some time, all sorts of objections were raised and

attacks made upon it. replied coolly and steadily to
them all, and the more it was investigated, the more
208 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

the world became convinced of its practicability. Still
it was impossible to combine the various conflicting

interests, and equally difficult to form a company for

such a vast and novel undertaking. The public naturally

said, if the drainage and navigation interests and the

landed proprietors, who were so much interested, did not
see their way, how could it be expected that a company

should ? Thus the affair, although frequently agitated,
lay in abeyance for several years. Its chief supporters,

Lord William Bentinck and Mr. Hoseason, having gone

to India, there remained none of sufficient energy and

influence to push it forward. At length the late talented

and indefatigable Lord George Bentinck became member

for Lynn, in succession to his uncle, Lord William, when

he became Governor-General of India. Lord George

was unanimously chosen chairman, and examined most

minutely, with his usual sagacity, every detail of the

measure, and was perfectly satisfied of its practicability

and value, but thought that it was too great to be under

taken as a whole, and that it would be better to divide

Iit into two parts, one comprising the Ouse and Nene,
the other the Welland and Witham.  must not omit

to mention that the late Prince Consort was much

pleased with the plan, and expressed his approbation to

me of it. It was accordingly decided to form a com

pany for the Norfolk half, including the Ouse and Nene,
and to reclaim 35,000 acres of land from the Great

Wash ; and at the end of 1845 the requisite plans were
prepared and notices given for a Bill to be applied for
in the ensuing session, under the title of the Norfolk

Estuary Act. The Company originally calculated that

the land gained from the estuary would have indemni

fied them for making the new cut for the Ouse ; and so

it would, if they had been allowed all the land below

high-water mark, without having any other burdens

entailed upon them. But unfortunately this was not

the case ; they were saddled with the maintenance of
            NORFOLK ESTUARY.                  209

the Great Cut, although, strictly speaking, it ought to

have been maintained by the navigation and the

drainage interests, which alone derived the benefit from

it. The land frontagers claimed all the land, or green

marsh, to be embanked at the expense of the Company,

who were only to receive a certain portion of its im

proved value ; the Ouse bank owners were to be indem

nified to some extent also. The Crown was to have

a commission of five per cent. upon the expenditure ;

and the Church was to have a certain portion, or tithe,

upon the land gained : indeed, so many restrictions

were placed on the Company that their calculated

profits were materially reduced ; nevertheless, as a

number of the shareholders were otherwise greatly

interested in the improvement of the drainage, front
          they calculated that if the shares
Iage, &c.,                                    were worth
          they would still be the gainers.
nothing,                                      I protested

as much as could, without avail, against all these
restrictions, and I doubted much whether the Act could

or would be carried into effect with any benefit to those

Ishareholders who simply looked to their profit from the

shares. It turned out as expected. The Act passed

during the session of 1846. Still there was no prospect
of the Norfolk Estuary Act being carried into effect, on
account of the restrictions above mentioned ; and the

Company wisely determined not to proceed unless the

drainage and navigation interests, which were so mate

rially concerned, came forward with a handsome contri

bution towards it. The Middle Level proprietors had
obtained a Bill, in the year 1846, for the improvement
Iof their drainage, which was much opposed, and in

which took a leading part. However, they carried
their Bill, and the works were designed and commenced

under Mr. James Walker ; but they soon found that the

work would be comparatively valueless. The Norfolk
Estuary Act had now been carried, and they therefore

entered into negotiations with the Norfolk Estuary
210 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Company, and these negotiations finally ended in the
Middle Level Commissioners and the Lynn Corporation,

who represented the drainage and navigation interests,
agreeing to contribute each the sum of 60,000/. towards
the completion of the new channel for the Ouse, con
templated by the Norfolk Estuary Company, upon
condition that the late Mr. Robert Stephenson should

Ibe joint engineer to the Norfolk Estuary Company

with myself, to which, of course, had no objection ;
and it was agreed that an Act of Parliament should be
obtained in order to ratify this agreement, which passed
in the year 1850.

   At that time a former Act rendered it necessary

that before any improvement was made in any port or
harbour, a Commission should be appointed by the
Admiralty to investigate the plan, the Commission to
hold its inquiry in public ; Captain Washington and
 Captain Veitch were appointed by the Admiralty for this
purpose. They held their court at the townhall, Lynn,

and, singular to relate, the gallant gentlemen advocated
a curved instead of a straight channel, which, under the
 circumstances, was so contrary to the practice of every
 good hydraulic engineer, that their report was simply
 ridiculous, and when produced by the Admiralty before
 the Committee of the House of Commons on the Bill,

 was proved by the best engineers to be wrong, and was

 therefore ignored by the Committee, and the plan pro
 posed by Mr. Stephenson and myself was unanimously

 adopted. The Bill accordingly passed, and the agree

 ment between the Middle Level Commissioners, the
 Corporation of Lynn, and the Company, the two former
 contributing 60,000/. each, was ratified; still there were
 several restrictive clauses, such as entailing the mainte
 nance of the works upon the Company, giving up the
 whole of the green marsh to the several frontages, which

 Imaterially abridged the profits of the Company, and

 increased their risks, and which in vain protested
           NORFOLK ESTUARY.                     211

against. The main cut commenced on the lower side of

Lynn, and was continued in a straight line 2| miles. We
calculated that certain dimensions were ample in the first

instance, because it was not necessary to excavate the

cut artificially to the full depth, as we knew that as soon

as the current began to act uponit      would in short
                                  it,   a
                                    it
time be adjusted to its proper capacity for the admission

and discharge of the tidal waters, in the same manner

as had taken place in the Nene estuary outfall already
mentioned. From the lower end of the above cut the

channel for distance of two miles farther to deep
       a
water was to be trained through the sands, formed by
                      ;
guide walls of rough stone raised to about the level of

half tide, with beacons upon at certain distances to in

dicate the channel and when once the channel had

been thus trained, the remainder of the banks to their

full height above high water would be raised naturally

by the silting up on each side, combined with the gradual

process of embanking the land from each of the shores
  of the estuary, properly managed.
     Messrs. Peto undertook the contract of the main cut.if

  The land having been bought, and everything arranged,

aa  day was fixed for turning the first sod, at the upper

  end near Lynn. The ceremony was performed by the
  late worthy Sir William Foulkes, the chairman of the

  Company, on the 1st of November, 1850. On that day
     grand procession, consisting of the Company, the

  Corporation and trades of Lynn, the Earl of Leicester,
  Lord Lieutenant, together with numerous gentry, and

  other spectators, attended the ceremony, which went

  off with great dclat, and the whole, as usual, terminated
  with grand dinner to about two hundred persons at
    a

  the townhall. Unfortunately my friend Mr. Stephenson

  was abroad and could not attend. The excavation of

  the great cut proceeded rapidly for some time, until

  Mr. Stephenson and myself, judging that enough had

  been done, and that the current would do the rest more

                                        p
                                             2
212 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

effectually, ordered the dams to be removed at both
ends and the water admitted, which was accordingly

done. As soon as the fen proprietors heard of this,

they were greatly alarmed ; they said that the Company
had violated their agreement with them, and had gone
contrary to the Act of Parliament, in not excavating
the cut to the full depth required before letting the
water in. We endeavoured in vain to persuade them
to the contrary. They immediately applied for a
mandamus to stop the works and restore the dams
until the cut had been excavated to the full dimensions
required by the Act, and obtained an injunction, so that

we were compelled to restore the dams and stop out the
water. We determined, however, not to give up the
point, and argued the question before Vice-Chancellor

Turner, and were beaten. We then applied to the
Admiralty, who would not assist. We appealed from
the Vice-Chancellor's decision to the Lords Justices of
Appeal, and were again beaten ; still we would not
give up, and at last we found that there was no alter
native but to get a new Act of Parliament allowing us
to make the cut in any manner we pleased, provided
that we made it of the dimensions originally agreed
upon. The Eau Brink Commissioners opposed us by
every means in their power, but our evidence, which
was given by the first engineers of the day, so com
pletely satisfied Parliament that we carried our new
Bill as we wished it.

    Thus, after a severe struggle for two years, we
carried our point ; but this was so much valuable time
lost, besides a great deal of money spent in litigation.
Having obtained our new Act, we set to work imme
diately to remove the dams of the cut, and to let the
water in, and at the same time to commence the dam
for stopping up the old channel of the Ouse at the
lower end of the town of Lynn, near the upper end
of the new cut. As the dams and bottom of the river
NORFOLK ESTUARY.  213

near them were composed of strong clay, it took some

time to remove them so as to admit the waters freely

into the cut ; but as soon as this was done, the scour

began to have a sensible effect; this was increased by
the closing of the dam across the old channel, so that
within a few months afterwards not only had the new
cut been scoured out to the full depth required by the
old Act, but considerably beyond it. Thus Stephenson

and myself were proved in the right, and the opposition
entirely in the wrong.

   The effect on the port of Lynn was very remarkable.
The depth of water at spring tides was 18 to 20 feet,
and neaps 14 to 16 feet; and there was a regular
depth at low water of spring tides of 9 to 12 feet in

the cut, so that the largest vessels could always come
up and depart with their full cargoes either at spring
or neap tides, and the channel was so direct and easy
of navigation, that pilots, of whom there was a large

establishment, became in a great measure unnecessary,
and their numbers were considerably reduced as well
as their charges, and the increase of trade soon enabled
the town of Lynn to pay off the 60,000/. contribution

to the estuary works.

   The drainage interests also derived a similar benefit
by the lowering of the low-water mark 6 feet, which,
together with that obtained by the Eau Brink Cut, was
altogether 11 feet. The Middle Level Drainage, upon

which a large sum had been expended, obtained an
increased fall of between 3 and 4 feet, which enabled
the Commissioners to drain the greatest portion of their

lands naturally instead of artificially. In fact, the Port
of Lynn by means of these works has become one of
the best on the east coast of England, at the least
expense, and with the most moderate dues ; indeed, if

the Drainage and Navigation had paid double the
money which they did to this great work, and which
in justice they ought to have done for the benefits it
214 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

has conferred upon them, they would have been more

than amply indemnified.

   The Estuary Company having now completed the
cut, turned their attention to the best means of re

claiming from the Wash the 35,000 acres which had

been allotted to them by the Crown, or at least as much

of it as they could ; but unfortunately there were so

many different opinions among them and their advisers,

that they lost a great deal of time and money in pur

suing improper measures. I, who originally designed

the undertaking, and had acquired great experience

in this department from having carried on successfully

similar works in the Great Wash and elsewhere, always

adhered to one system, namely, to work   with nature,

and never to go against her; if we did,  I invariably

found that we were beaten.

We knew, from a variety of experiments that had

been made, that the alluvial matter held in suspension

by the waters in the Great Wash was an ascertainable

quantity ; that this alluvial matter was transferred

from one place to another, according to the prevailing

winds and currents; and that it was only deposited

where circumstances were favourable, such as eddies

and sheltered stagnant places. Now my great object
(after having confined the fresh and tidal waters of the
river Ouse to one adequate channel, so as to preserve
the drainage and navigation in an efficient state) was
to cause to be deposited the alluvial matter that was

held in suspension in the waters spreading over the
other parts of the estuary. This could only be done

effectually by arresting the progress of the flowing and

ebbing waters in such a manner, that as much of the

alluvial matter as possible might be deposited in the

                            is,
                                             is

                                                               it
places most convenient, that in those places where
was desired to raise the soil above the level of high

water of neap tides. When this level reached grass

may be expected to grow, and in a very short time the
                                 NORFOLK ESTUARY.                         215

whole is converted into a green marsh. The process
simply this : when the deposit has reached a certain

number of feet above low water of spring tides, a
species of light green vegetation first covers the surface

in patches, then by degrees extends over the whole;

the reclaimed land still continues rising, and at a higher

level above low water samphire makes its appearance;
the accumulation of soil still goes on increasing, when

the samphire disappears, and grass succeeds;            and in

                                                         it it,
                                                                    it
a short time afterwards the place assumes the appear
ance of level green marsh well adapted for grazing
is
             aa

                      it

                               is
cattle. After                    has arrived at this stage, which

does at about the level of high water of neap tides,

the accumulation                   very slow on our coasts seldom

attains much higher elevation, except where the sand

   blown up by strong winds from the sea, which forms
dunes or banks, that, as in the case of Holland and

other places, sometimes attain an elevation of 30 feet

and upwards above the level of the highest tides.

This, however,  ; is             not the case around the shores of

the Great Wash there the marshes are simply pro
duced by the gradual deposit of alluvial matter in the

manner above stated.

The great object, therefore, as have said,                                to
                                   if

                                       I

                                                                      is
facilitate this deposit or accretion as much as possible

by artificial means. Nature, left to herself, though

issure, very slow. We must therefore assist nature,
by following and working in unison with her laws.
We must go to work gradually, and not by great and
expensive operations check the currents violently and at

once, which would only produce an equally strong
current elsewhere, so that while we gained in one place

we should lose in another. By series of light works
                                   a
                                                     a
composed of bushy fagots or other similar materials,
raised about 12 or 15 inches above the level of the

sands, and disposed in series of lines at certain dis
tances from each other, not continuous, but in lengths,
216 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

so that the ends may overlap each other, the currents
will be gently checked without being wholly obstructed,
the water between them will be rendered stagnant, and
the alluvial matter with which it is charged will be
deposited. When the deposit has reached to the top
of these works, the works themselves should be raised
higher in the same place, or in an intermediate position,
as circumstances shall render advisable. Where a
certain space is intended to be raised or warped up,
it is generally better to commence at the upper end
and work downwards; the works themselves are less

expensive, the height to be raised is less, and the water
impelled by the mass of the tide behind brings up a
greater quantity of alluvial matter, and in proportion
as the space above is warped up it accumulates in a

greater degree below. In carrying on works of this

kind, wherever we find that there is a tendency to make
a channel, and with it a strong current, it must be
checked gradually from the upper end, so that the
quantity of water passing through it may be decreased,
and this channel will soon fill up. When a certain space
has been naturally or artificially raised to the level of a

fine green marsh, provided that there be a sufficient

quantity to pay the expense, it should be embanked
entirely from the sea. As to the expense incurred in
embanking and the value of the land when embanked,
generally speaking, we shall seldom err we take as a
rule that the land should be worth double the cost of
embanking. When we have an estuary to deal with
 from which we may expect to reclaim several thousand
acres of land, resolves itself into serious question
 both of time and money as to the best mode of accom
 plishing it. One object should be as far as practicable
 to reduce the extent of main or barrier banks, and
 the situation be well adapted for the purpose, barrier
 bank may be commenced at the lower end, and
 gradually pushed forward in proportion as the space
it,

   it

                                                a

                                   if

                                                                  a

                                                   if
             NORFOLK ESTUARY.                                                      217

above it exhibits a tendency to silt up ; in combina
tion with this the minor operations should be carried on,

so that the one may assist the other. When a suffi
cient quantity of marsh above the barrier bank has

been formed, it may be embanked from the sea, and by

keeping the barrier bank always sufficiently in advance
the interior banks will become less costly, as they will not
be exposed to the main force of the waves during storms;

otherwise each separate bank must be made a barrier

bank, and the whole cost will be materially increased.
The propriety of adopting either the one system or the
other will greatly depend upon the peculiar local cir

cumstances.

With regard to the quantity of land, when fit for

the purpose, to be embanked or enclosed at one time,
this also will, like the other, depend upon the local cir
cumstances. Generally speaking it is safer to confine

the operation to about 400 or 500 acres ; and the proper

time for closing the embankment is during neap tides,
when the work will be much facilitated.

   It is true that much greater quantities may be taken

in at one time, according to the Dutch system, but then

several closing spaces must be left open, and these must

all be specially prepared for the purpose by lining
the bottom and sides with wicker-work and fascines to

prevent the scour, and then filling them up with clay,

stone, fascines, and earth, as the case may require ; and

if by chance a breach should take place, which occa

sionally occurs under the best of management, the

internal space to be filled with water is so great that
the violence and strength of the inpouring current is
increased in the same proportion, so that it carries all

it,
            it
                                 is

                                                                                a
before scoops out great channels in the interior space,
and damages the land by the great quantity of sand

brought in, and becomes difficult to clear the internal

space of water. And although by this plan                                          less

quantity of embankment  required, nevertheless the
218 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

expense per lineal foot becomes greater; but where
the length of the embankment is small compared to the

depth of the land to be enclosed, this system, if pro

perly managed, may be adopted with advantage. The

most advisable plan must be left a good deal to the

judgment and skill of the engineer-in-chief taking
advantage of the local circumstances.

   The above principles for warping and enclosing

Iland recommended in several reports to the Norfolk

Estuary Company, but they were not adopted to the

extent I recommended ; the consequence has been that
Iseveral years' time and a good deal of money have been

unnecessarily expended. But believe that they have

been finally convinced that my system was the proper
one, and it has since been adopted to some extent,
with considerable success, and about 1000 acres (in
1867) have been enclosed, the property of the Company,
at the cost of about 15/. per acre, the land being worth

401. They have, moreover, enclosed 600 acres more for
the Prince of Wales, upon which they will be paid one-
third of its improved value. As several thousand

acres in the estuary belonging to the Company are

rapidly approaching   Ithacot nfsidtaetnetlywhbeenlievteh, eybymparyopbeer
profitably embanked,
management, that the shareholders will ultimately
recover a good deal if not the whole of their capital,

Iand perhaps a good portion of their interest also ;

but shall always contend that if my recommenda

tions had been followed from the beginning, a great
deal of money would have been saved. The Com

pany ought not to have submitted to the restrictions

imposed by the Acts. The contribution from the

drainage and navigation interests ought to have been

double, for which they would have been amply repaid,

and the land gained would have been far greater, so

that even by this time it might have been a very

profitable concern.
THE WITHAM.  219

  Whilst the Nene Outfall was in progress, I was em

ployed by the Corporation of Boston to improve the
outfall of the river between the Grand Sluice at the
upper end of the town, and Hobhole near the mouth of
the river, a distance of nearly four miles. This had
previously been proposed by my father, in the year

1845, to the Corporation of Boston, previous to com
mencing the great drainage of the East, West, and

Wildmere fens bordering upon the Witham between
Lincoln and Boston, amounting to about 125,000 acres
of lowland, which for the most part was little better

than a marsh. It was here he proposed his grand

system for the drainage of lowlands by means of catch-
water drains for the waters from the highlands, and

main and minor drains for the waters from the lowlands,

both systems of drains being distinct and separate from
each other, and which he afterwards most successfully
carried into effect. In order to obtain the requisite fall,
it was necessary that the outfalls of the two main

drains should be carried into the Witham below the

town of Boston ; but in order that this might be
effectual, it was also necessary that the Witham should

be greatly improved between Boston and the mouth at

Hobhole ; and as the navigation between these two

points was very defective, he thought that the
Corporation should bear the expense, as they would
derive the greatest benefit. For this purpose my father

proposed two plans : one was to improve the old
channel, partly by cutting off the bends and confining

and straightening its course, and from Hobhole making
a new cut to Clayhole, where there was ample depth of

water at all times of tide ; and the other plan was to
make a direct cut within land from the lower end of

Boston to Clayhole. He proposed also, for the drainage,
to make an outfall for the highland water at Maudfoster,
just below the town of Boston, as he said that by bring
ing the highland water there, it would effectually serve
220 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE

to keep the river open between that point and its mouth

at Hobhole, and to make an outfall for the lowland waters

at the latter place ; and he recommended the drainage
interests to contribute a certain portion of the expense

towards the improvement. The Corporation of Boston

declined doing anything, and the drainage was left to
take care of itself. Mr. Rennie, however, foresaw that

if the Witham was not improved by either one or the

other of the plans that he recommended, the highland

water would not be effectively discharged by the sluice

at Maudfoster, and therefore he made a communication

between the Maudfoster drain and the Hobhole drain

at a place called Cowbridge, a few miles above Bos

ton, where there was a gauge, so that whenever the
water in Maudfoster drain exceeded the gauge it passed

into the lowland main drain, and from thence into the

Witham at Hobhole. What Mr. Rennie foresaw came

true ; the Witham, not having been improved, became
worse, and the river in front of the Maudfoster Sluice

was silted up, so that it could not discharge its water,
and therefore the whole of the water, highland and low

land, was obliged to go by Hobhole, which drain and

sluice, foreseeing what would take place, he had en

larged for the purpose.

   In the year 1827, the outfall of the Witham between

Boston and Hobhole had become so much silted up that
at high water of neap tides there was scarcely water

enough for fishing boats to come up to the town during

the summer months and dry seasons, and at spring
tides only sloops of very small draught could get up to
the town ; in fact, it might be said that at that time

Boston as a seaport was lost, and the trade and naviga
Ition of the port ruined. At this the Corporation be
came greatly alarmed, and sent for me.  directed the

late Mr. Francis Giles to make a complete survey of

the river, which he did in his usual able and correct

manner, and no person could do it better. Being
THE WITHAM.  221

provided with this survey, I made my report, and

saw clearly that there was no remedy but to carry
into effect either the one or the other of my father's

Iplans of 1805. As the Corporation funds were very

limited, recommended the plan for improving the

old channel, partly by cutting off the bends and con
fining the river as far as Hobhole, and from thence
making a new cut to Clayhole, as recommended by my

father. There were three parties who were to con
tribute towards the improvement of the outfall of the
Witham, namely, the Corporation of Boston, and the
Witham and the Black Sluice Commissioners. The

Black Sluice Commissioners demurred to the plan pro
posed by me, which was my father's, on the ground
that the cut ought to be made from the Black Sluice

inland direct to Hobhole, otherwise they would not

derive the advantages they had a right to expect from
their contributions; so the whole matter was referred

to Mr. Telford, who said that no improvement in the
river below Boston would be of any use, unless the

Grand Sluice above Boston was removed, so as to

admit the tide to flow farther up the river. Now,
although Telford was to a certain extent right, but by
no means wholly so, because by carrying into effect
either of my father's plans there could be no doubt

 that considerable improvement would be made on the
outfall of the Witham below Boston, as the sequel will

show, nevertheless, if the Grand Sluice had been

 removed the tide would have flowed farther up the
 river and the increased quantity of tidal water passing
 upwards and downwards would have improved the
 outfall still further ; but there were insuperable objec
 tions to the removal of the Grand Sluice, which neither

 of those parties above mentioned who were to make the
 improvement in the outfall could control, for the river
 above the Grand Sluice was under a different body.

 The banks must have been raised to admit the tide;
222 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

compensation must have been made for the loss of fresh
water, and various other interests must have been con

sulted that were hostile. The Black Sluice Commis

sioners stuck to Telford's report, and withdrew from the

contribution, so that the whole matter fell to the ground.

The outfall of the Witham became worse, and the

Corporation of Boston, being left single-handed, and

Ihaving determined to do what they could to improve the
river, again requested my advice.                   said that the best

thing they could do under the circumstances would be

to carry into effect by degrees, as far as their means
would allow, the plan of my father already referred

to for improving the old channel of the river, and to

begin by cutting off the bend between Hobhole and
the upper end of Burton's Marsh (this cut would be
about half a mile long), and blocking up the old
                                                    which was about half
a
          a

                                           a

                                               it,
channel immediately above

mile wide. These two works would shorten the

navigation quite half mile, and admit and discharge

the tidal and fresh waters more readily, and thus pro
duce corresponding scour and lowering of the low-
water line and bed of the river all the way up to the

Grand Sluice above Boston.

   The Corporation adopted my recommendation, and
entered into contract with Jolliffe and Banks for that
a
                 a

                                     it
purpose. Although small work,                       was attended

with considerable difficulty, particularly in closing the
old channel, on account of its great width and the

great body of tidal water which passed through it.
The effect of this work exceeded my most sanguine

expectations in short time improved the channel
4
                                    ;
                                  a
                                                 it
                                                                                                               3
upwards to Boston to such an extent that spring

tides rose at Boston Bridge 14 feet, and neaps 10 feet,
and the bed of the river was deepened from
                                                                                                                  to

feet below low water of springs, so that vessels

drawing 15 feet and 16 feet could come up to the town

at springs, and vessels drawing 12 to 13 feet could
          THE WITIIAM.                               223

come up at neaps ; moreover, all the silt was scoured

away from the front of the Maudfoster Sluice, so that it

discharged the highland water from the fens, which it

had not done for years before, and improved also the

I Idischarge of the waters from the Grand and Black
sluices.  must confess that was not a little elated at

this successful result, as it most completely established

the correctness of my father's opinion as well as my
own, and demonstrated the fallacy of my friend Tel

ford's judgment. The cost of the above works was

33,000^., which was very small compared to the advan

tage obtained. The Corporation of Boston were so

much pleased with the success that they determined to
carry into effect the remainder of the improvement

in the old channel to Boston, which was afterwards

done by confining the channel by degrees to a proper

width by means of fascines and loose stone and clay
properly combined together up to the level of half tide,

so that the flood and ebb always acted to the greatest

advantage in one and the same channel without

materially diminishing the quantity of tidal water.

The effect of these additional works was to still

further deepen the bed of the river and increase the

flow of the tide by lowering the low-water mark, which

improved the navigation and drainage still further, so

that the trade of Boston revived and increased in pros

perity, and all this was effected by the resources of

Boston alone ; and it is only to be regretted that the

drainage interests, who derived so much benefit, were

not compelled to contribute their just proportion.

   In 1852 a Bill was obtained to carry into effect my

plan for improving the mouths of the Witham below

Hobhole, and the Welland below Fosdike Bridge, and

reclaiming 35,000 acres of land from the Great Wash,
as formerly described, but the Bill was clogged with so

many restrictions, and neither the drainage or naviga
                                                     it,
tion interests would contribute anything towards
,      AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.
  224

although they would have been greatly benefited,
that it was found impossible to carry it into effect so as
to remunerate the shareholders, and therefore it was

abandoned.

  I about this time finished some minor works which

had been designed and partly executed for the improve
ment of the Witham near Lincoln. This was part
of a great plan of my father for improving the river
Witham, so as to make it navigable for the Yorkshire

coasting vessels, drawing 6 feet and carrying about
70 tons. From Lincoln they proceeded to the Trent by
the Old Foss navigation, which entered the Trent at

Torksey, and from thence to the Humber and the
adjacent coasts. This improved navigation of the
Witham answered very well as a commercial specula

tion, and in the year 1847 was sold to the Great

Northern Railway Company, who established a railway
on its banks, which now forms part of their loop line
between Peterborough and Lincoln, which has in a

great measure superseded the navigation.

  During this period I was requested by the Commis

sioners of the Ancholme Level, consisting of about
50,000 acres of low fen lands, bordering upon the
Ancholme in North Lincolnshire, to give them my
advice as to the best means of improving their drainage,
and at the same time the navigation of that river.

   The Ancholme takes its rise near Market Rasen, in
the highlands of the north of Lincolnshire, and after
a course of some miles it enters the lowland district
of the valley, and proceeds through it in a northerly
direction for a distance of about 18 miles, when it joins

the Humber at right angles to its course. The valley
varies from one mile in width at the upper end to three

miles at the lower end, where it joins the Humber. It

is bounded on the south by a ridge of chalk hills of

considerable elevation, and on the north by a similar

ridge of sandstone hills.
ANCHOLME.  225

   The Ancholme having very little fall where it enters
the lowlands, and being prevented from discharging
its waters with facility into the Humber on account of
the great mass of water and high tides in the latter
river, was forced back upon the lowlands, and fre
quently inundated them, so that they became little
better than marshes, and the river itself was neces
sarily extremely circuitous. In 1806 the Commissioners
applied to my father for advice, and he recommended,
in the first place, that the river should be straightened
as far as practicable, in order to utilize the fall of the
current to the fullest extent; also that a sluice should

be constructed to exclude the tides at Terreby ; and a

catchwater drain made on the south side, with separate
sluice to discharge the highland waters into the Humber.
This advice was only partly followed : the river was
straightened ; the catchwater drain only extended as far
as Brigg; a lock was made for the navigation at
Hortestow Green, where the river entered the low

lands ; and a sluice with a lock was made at Terreby.

In principle, these works were correctly designed and

Iwell adapted for the purpose as far as they went ; but

am not exactly aware whether they were carried out
according to his plan, or under his immediate direction ;

and twenty years had elapsed before I was invited to

give my opinion.

  When I visited them the level was very badly

drained ; the river was full of shoals ; the navigation,
which was intended for the Yorkshire coasting vessels

up to Bishop's Bridge, was only practicable a few miles
beyond Brigg, and that in a very imperfect manner;
and the works generally were in a very bad state.

  After having inspected the works, I recommended,

first, that the main river should be deepened, widened,
and enlarged throughout the entire length of the level,
so as to accommodate the full-sized Yorkshire coasting
vessels drawing 6 ft. 6 in. ; and that the river should be

                                                                                                                    Q
22G AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOIIX RENNIR.

of ample capacity to contain the floods fully 2 to 3 feet
below the level of the lowlands, so that they could not
be overflowed, and might always be able to drain
into it.

   Secondly, that a lock should be made with a lift of 6
feet, so that coasting vessels might be enabled to get
up to Bishop's Bridge ; and that as a great deal of sand
was brought down by the upper part of the river,

Iwhich continually produced shoals and filled it up,

recommended that at the upper end of the lock an over
fall should be made, together with a capacious reservoir,
into which the sand might be discharged, in order to
prevent it from getting into the river ; then it could
be removed whenever necessary.

   Thirdly, that a new sluice and lock should be made
at Terreby, where the Ancholme joined the Humber;
that all the new sluices should be laid 6 feet below

the old one ; and that new bridges should be made
across the main river to replace the old ones, which
were not of sufficient capacity.

    Fourthly, that the south catchwater drain should be

drained out and enlarged, and extended to the upper
end of the level.

   Fifthly, that a catchwater drain of the requisite
dimensions should be made on the north side of the
level, from the new sluice to the farther extremity of
the level, and that the water should be discharged
through a separate opening in the new sluice.

    Sixthly, that wherever a brook entered the catch
water drain on either side, there should be corre

sponding weirs and reservoirs for receiving the sand
and other deposits, so as to prevent them from getting
into the drains.

    These several works were executed, under my direc
tions, by Messrs. Jolliffe and Banks, as contractors ; and
Mr. Adam Smith, as resident engineer, to whom the
real credit is due for the very able, honest, and zealous
ANCHOLME.      227

manner in which he discharged his duties, particularly
for the execution of the new sluice at Terreby, which

was done without a contractor, and is one of the

cheapest and best works of the kind.

   These works have answered their object completely ;
and the Ancholme district is as well drained as any
level in the kingdom, and the navigation is complete of
the kind.

  Whilst carrying on these works I was the frequent

guest of the Earl of Yarborough, the Commodore of
the Yacht Club, and received the greatest kindness

and attention from his lordship ; without his support,
ability, and firmness, these works would never have

been attempted, nor carried to a successful conclusion.

           Q2
228 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

                         CHAPTEE IV.

Sketch of the Kise and Progress of the Railway System --
     The Manchester and Liverpool, London and Birmingham,
     and other early lines.

I will now proceed to a very important epoch in my

 life, namely, my first introduction to railways upon
 the locomotive system. Railways of wood were first
 introduced on the Tyne, for the purpose of bringing
 down coal from the adjacent collieries, to be shipped
 from Newcastle and the vicinity for exportation to
 London and other places. These were 4 feet 6 inches
 wide from centre to centre, and the coal waggons were
 specially adapted to them. The wooden rails wore out
 rapidly, and were subsequently improved by having
 cast-iron edge rails fixed upon the wooden ones, and
 the wheels of the waggons were made of cast iron also,
 having a flange on the inside to keep them in their

 places. It reduced materially the friction of the road,

 enabled the horses by which the waggons were drawn
 to take a greater load, and the expense of maintaining
  the ways was greatly reduced. Matters proceeded
 in this manner until towards the end of the last century.

 At that time, the celebrated James Watt began his ex

  periments upon steam, and then turned his attention
  to the improvement of the steam engine, which had
  previously been so far perfected by Savery, New-
  comen, and Smeaton, as to be used for pumping water
  from mines with considerable effect, by employing
  steam and atmospheric pressure alternately, for raising
  and lowering the piston in the cylinder to which
  the pumping apparatus was attached. The waste of
WATT AND THE STEAM ENGINE.                            220

fuel and the expense of working these engines were

very considerable, and they were inapplicable to any
other purpose but pumping. Watt saw these defects,

and immediately set about devising means for remedy
ing them. He first enclosed the steam cylinder at top

and bottom, and elevated and depressed the piston by
means of steam only; and instead of allowing the
spent steam to escape into the atmosphere, it was

discharged into a separate vessel, into which a jet of

cold water was constantly playing, so that the steam

was condensed there, and hence this vessel was called

a " condenser." In this condenser there was an air

pump constantly working, so that to some extent a

vacuum was produced, which facilitated the discharge
of the steam from above and below the piston,
relieved the pressure upon it both ways, and added

considerably to the effect of the whole machine, as well

as economizing the fuel required to work it. He also

added a crank to a connecting rod at the opposite end

of the beam to which the piston was attached, and by
means of this crank communicated rotary motion to any

machinery connected with  it,
                                                  it
                          adding still further to

the value of the steam engine, and rendering univer

sally applicable. The boiler also he greatly improved,

so as to produce larger quantity of steam with less
a

fuel. The ingenious idea of the crank was pirated

from him before he could patent  ; it,

                                                          a
                                                                     a
                                 and he resorted

to another invention to produce rotary motion, which

he called the sun-and-planet wheel this consisted of
toothed wheel attached to the lower end of the con

necting rod fixed to the end of the beam, which wheel
worked into another attached to the end of hori

zontal shaft, upon which were fixed other wheels to
give motion to any system of machinery which might

be required. It should be observed that in this im

proved engine the connecting rod of the piston was
attached to one end of the beam, the connecting rod
'230 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

attached to the crank, or sun-and-planet, was fixed to

the other, and the air and cold water pumps were

attached to rods connected with the intermediate part of

the main beam, so that they were all worked together

by the rising and falling of the piston, and thus formed

one whole compact machine. He also added several
minor contrivances, which it is unnecessary to mention,

and which rendered the steam engine still more com

plete. His improvements did not end here, for he

made numerous experiments upon the expansibility or
elasticity and effects of steam at various temperatures,

constructed a high-pressure engine, and subsequently

one with a condenser mounted upon a carriage sup

ported by wheels, which was nothing more than the
Ilocomotive engine, a model of which still exists. Watt,

however, as have already observed, did not like high-

pressure steam : he was fully aware of its importance ;
but at that time, from the backward state of the iron

manufacture, he did not see his way to controlling it

with safety, and he considered that his low-pressure

condensing system was the best and most economical,

and he therefore gave up all idea of pursuing the

investigation of the locomotive engine and its applica

bility. Fortunately, however, everybody was not of

the same opinion. Watt had clearly invented the

locomotive engine, and his able and faithful assistant,

William Murdock, afterwards made another working

model of it on the same plan, with which he used to

amuse himself by setting it in motion to run about his
room. But the idea and its practicability once esta

blished, the locomotive was not to be thus abandoned.

Amongst those who heard of  it,  and who appreciated

its value, were two Cornish engineers, Trevithick and

Vivian, who had been accustomed to work high-pressure

steam, which was largely used in the Cornish mining

engines about this time. Trevithick and Vivian soon

saw that Watt's waggon boiler was too cumbrous, and

not capable of producing steam fast enough or in
TREVITHICK AND VIVIAN.  231

sufficient quantity for a locomotive engine. They there
fore invented a new kind of boiler with a tube in the
centre, around which the heat from the furnace cir

culated, so that a greater surface was exposed to its

action, and, consequently, steam was generated much

more quickly and in greater volume and elasticity.
This boiler was, moreover, more compact, lighter, and

more portable than Watt's ; the engine also was more

simple ; and the cylinder and piston being vertical, the

latter was attached to a crank, which again was applied
to the axles of the wheels, which made them revolve at
every double stroke of the piston. The whole of this

engine was mounted on a carriage ; and this may be

termed an improvement upon Watt's engine, and the
second stage of this great invention.

   Trevithick and Vivian being convinced of success,

took out a patent for the tubular boiler and the
engine, for its application to common roads and rail

ways; and foreseeing that if the wheels were applied

to the smooth surface of a railway, the adhesion of
their surface, combined with the weight of the whole
machine, would be sufficient to impel it forward when

worked by the engine, proposed that the peripheries
of the wheels should be smooth ; but in other cases,

where more grip or action might be necessary, they
proposed to add bosses or cogs to the peripheries
of the wheels. What they now required was to

apply the invention to practice. They accordingly
were either invited or went to the Merthyr Tydvil
Iron Works, where iron tramways were in extensive

use, and there proposed an engine for drawing the
waggons, instead of manual and horse labour. The

invention was greatly approved of, and the proprietors

of the mines determined to give it a fair trial. A

locomotive engine was then made by Trevithick and
Vivian and placed on the railway. Waggons laden
with ten tons of iron and coal were attached to the
232 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

engine, and, to the surprise of all, it drew them at
the rate of six miles an hour. This was in the year

1802.

   One would have thought that the principle, practice,
and value of the invention having been thus fairly de

monstrated, the wealthy and enterprising ironmasters
would at once have adopted it and have brought it
into general use. Indeed, it is difficult to conceive why

this was not so. It is true that the machine was still

cumbrous and difficult to manage, and the cast-iron

tramways were probably too light and badly laid, so

that they were frequently broken ; still sufficient must

have been proved to show that these were defects that

might easily be remedied, and that continued practice

would enable the inventors to render both the locomo

tive and the railway more perfect. In almost all

new inventions, nothing is made perfect at first, and
it requires constant trials and much perseverance to

remove obstacles which cannot be foreseen, and the
existence of which can only be proved by experience,

when the proper remedy can be applied. The attempt

to introduce locomotives on railways was not, however,

for the time prosecuted further at Merthyr Tydvil.
It may be asked, why did not Trevithick and Vivian
Ipursue the matter further elsewhere ?
                                        believe the

answer to this is simply that they had not the means ;

they had already expended so much in prosecuting the

invention that their resources were exhausted, and un

less fresh pecuniary aid came in they must necessarily

abandon   it it,  at least for the time. Nothing                more
                             a
difficult than to introduce
                                it
                                      is

                                                              is

                                                           it
                             new invention, however

plausible may appear at first sight. We become by
habit so wedded to our old ways that we are apt to
regard anything new with indifference. When has

succeeded, the more simple   the more we are

astonished that we should not have perceived its value

before hence, unfortunately, we so frequently find that
       ;
BLENKINSOFS LOCOMOTIVE.                              233

many able men, who have made brilliant discoveries

and inventions which have conferred so much benefit

upon mankind, have exhausted their all, and have died

of starvation, just at the very moment when they have

succeeded. Then some lucky one steps in and derives all

the advantage. Such was the fate of poor Trevithick,

who may be said to have been the inventor of the
modern railway system. Even Watt himself would

have probably shared the same fate, if he had not

met with the great Matthew Boulton, who appreciated

his inventions, and furnished the means for carrying
them into effect. The same may be said of Cort, who

introduced puddling, the simplest mode of converting

cast into wrought iron. Bessemer himself told me

that he was nearly ruined before his great discovery

succeeded. In fact, numberless examples might be

adduced of this melancholy truth ; but to my story.

   The next example we find of the employment
of the locomotive engine was that of Blenkinsop, of

Leeds, which was similar to, but more compact and
lighter than that of Trevithick and Vivian, and was

Iapplied to draw the waggons laden with coal from

Middleton Colliery, near Leeds, to that town ; saw it
at work in the year 1814. It then drew 20 tons at the
Irate of seven miles an hour, at which was much
Ia"sStoonmisehtehdi.ng
Although   quite  a lad,    thought to myself,
more will  come   out of  this hereafter." But

the most singular thing connected with this was, that

the principle of adhesion to the rails by the smooth

tired wheels, and the fact of the power of a locomotive

being in its weight, as laid down by Trevithick, was

completely forgotten, and the locomotive was propelled

forward by means of a toothed wheel driven by the

engine, acting on a corresponding toothed rack laid
alongside the rails; this was nothing more than
Trevithick's idea of bosses or teeth attached to the

wheels, but intended to be applied in a different way.
234 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Still the invention was making its way. Blenkinsop's
engine excited great interest in the north, especially in

the neigh bourhood of the Tyne and Wear, and numbers

it
                                                                             it,
of engineers, scientific men, and others went to see
and being convinced of its value, determined to intro

duce into that district. Amongst others, Mr. Blackett,

of Wylam Colliery, who had seen Blenkinsop's engine

and railway, perceived the error of attempting to

propel the locomotive by means of the toothed wheel

and ratchet, and determined to revert to Trevithick's
original design of the smooth tired wheels. Whether

he had heard of Trevithick's invention or not, does not

appear, although, as the subject had become generally

known, and numerous intelligent minds had been

directed towards  it,                  very probable that he had.
                     it it

                           is
However, be that as may, he has the credit of re

introducing Trevithick's invention, and locomotive,
                                           a

with improvments, leaving out the toothed wheel

and ratchet, was applied to railway at Wylam with
                                       a

complete success.
   Amongst others who visited Blenkinsop's railway and

locomotive engine was Mr. James, a general land

agent and surveyor, at Newcastle, who was in large

practice, and had a respectable fortune. He was man   aa
of enlarged mind and great intelligence, and although

not practical mechanician, he was so much struck
a

                it

                                    a
with the effect of Blenkinsop's engine and railway, that

he at once said was new mode of conveying pas
sengers and goods which must supersede all others, and

become universal. In his enthusiasm he wrote long

letter, addressed to the Prince Regent, on the subject,
in 1815, pointing out the value of this new mode of

transport, the saving which would effect in manual
                                       it

and horse labour, the ease and expedition with which

goods and passengers would be conveyed, and the vast
benefits which would be conferred upon the country

by the general introduction of the railway system.
GEORGE STEPHENSON.  235

   Immediately he set to work and devoted his whole
energies and time, regardless of his own business, to the
promotion of this new mode of transit. The celebrated
George Stephenson, who up to this time had been a
working collier, began to emerge from his obscurity

and exhibit his genius to the world. James got
acquainted with him, and being greatly taken by his
talent, imparted his views about the introduction of
railways, and, it is said, supplied money towards
aiding him in prosecuting the work. Be this as
it may, Stephenson, who had seen Blackett's engine,
was fully convinced of the soundness of the system,
and that it must become universal ; and therefore, with

his usual indomitable energy and talent, he applied him

self to promote and develop the new scheme by every
means in his power. He became acquainted, and ulti

mately entered into partnership, with Mr. Lord, and

established a manufactory for locomotive engines at
Newcastle, which maintains its celebrity at the present
day. He first made a locomotive of a new and im
proved construction, which worked with considerable

success upon the Hetton Colliery railways. Next he was

employed on the Stockton and Darlington, for which he
made several locomotives, all of which, be it observed,

were employed solely for carrying goods at the rate of
about eight miles an hour ; and it was by no means
anticipated that they would be able to exceed that,

 or that they could calculate much upon general pas

 senger traffic. However, the success that had already
 attended their efforts, made Stephenson confident that

 the railway system could be equally well applied where-

 ever there was a large traffic. James and Stephenson
 then entered into a kind of partnership, and first pro
 posed to make a railway, in 1817, from Manchester to
 Liverpool, for between those towns the traffic was so
 enormous that the Duke of Bridgewater's Canal and

 the Mersey could not accommodate it properly, and
236 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENKIE.

great dissatisfaction was expressed at the delays and

high charges. Nothing, however, was done at the

time, and it was not until the year 1825 that the pro

ject was so far matured as to enable a company to be
formed to carry it into effect. This company was
principally composed of gentlemen from Manchester,

Liverpool, and Newcastle ; and George Stephenson was
their chief engineer. They went to Parliament in

the year 1825, but were so ill prepared to encounter

the violent and powerful interests by which they were
opposed, particularly that of the Bridgewater Canal,

which enjoyed a very large portion of the traffic, that
they lost their Bill.

   The late Earl of Lonsdale, then Lord Lowther, one of

the Lords of the Treasury, a very able and intelligent

young man, knowing me from my connection with

ILondon Bridge, and with the Whitehaven Harbour, of

which was the engineer (where his father was the
chief owner of all the great collieries round the town),

II Iasked my opinion about the proposed new system, and
whether thought that it was likely to succeed.                            told

hreimpliefdra, n"kIlythitnhkat so,  ttohoou; "ghatndit   would.     His   lordship
                                                        he offered        the post
                                                                      me

Iaodf deinnggin, e"erAlttho otuheghMaitncwheilsl tebre  and Liverpool Railway,

                                                        greatly opposed, I think

we shall carry it."                 replied that my brother and

                                                        it,
myself would be happy to undertake provided that

we did not interfere with Mr. Stephenson or any other

engineer who had been previously employed. Lord

Lonsdale said that he would arrange all that with the

Company, and my brother and myself were accordingly

appointed engineers-in-chief.

   As we were left entirely to our own discretion to

adopt the old or to choose an entirely new line, we

selected the present energetic and talented engineer,

Mr. Charles Vignolles, to make the necessary surveys
for Parliament. After examining the old line and
                 CHATMOfiS.                      237

the surrounding country, we finally decided upon

adopting the present one, which passes over Chatmoss.
Whilst we were proceeding with the survey, my brother
George and Mr. Vignolles met Mr. Bradshaw, who was

the sole and independent manager of the Duke of

Bridgewater's Canal, on Chatmoss, not far from the line,
and near his own residence. He went up to my brother
and introduced himself as the manager of the Duke's

Canal, and my brother at once mentioned his name.
Mr. Bradshaw shook him by the hand very cordially,

and said that he was glad to make the acquaintance of
the son of his old friend, Mr. Rennie, for whom he had

the greatest respect and friendship ; and knowing what

we were about, said that he, on the part of the Duke's

Canal and the other water carriers, would oppose the
railway by every means in their power, and he felt

pretty confident that they could throw out the Bill
a second and even a third time, if it were attempted.
At the same time he expressed the most friendly feeling
towards my brother, and invited him and Mr. Vignolles

to his house, where he received them most hospitably,

and conversed, amongst other subjects, about the Bridge-

water Canal, and the great difficulties they had to
overcome in completing it. Pointing to a little white

washed   house,   near the  "MDooss,yoaubosuete  half a mile distant,
he said  to my   brother :                       that house ? Many

a time did the late Duke of Bridgewater, Brindley, and

myself spend our evenings there during the construc
tion of the canal, after the day's labours were over ;

and one evening in particular we had a very doleful

meeting. The Duke had spent all his money, had

exhausted his credit, and did not know where to get
more, and the canal was not finished. We were all
three in a very melancholy mood, smoking our pipes

and drinking ale, for we had not the means to do more,
and were very silent. At last the Duke said : ' Well,
Mr. Brindley, what is to be done now ?' Brindley said :
238 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

' Well, Duke, I don't know ; but of this I feel as con

fident as ever : if we could only finish the canal, it

would pay well, and soon bring back all your Grace's
money.'" After remaining a little longer, the party
broke up in melancholy silence, and each went his

way. It happened shortly afterwards that the Duke

managed to get money enough to complete the canal,
and Brindley was a true prophet, for the canal has paid

well, and has been mainly the making of the great
houses of Sutherland and Ellesmere.

    The surveys for the line over Chatmoss were com
pleted and deposited in due time, and the usual notices

were given. The Bill was read a first time in the

Commons, and after the second reading was referred to
a committee. Certainly Bradshaw had not exaggerated

the opposition, for the Bill was most energetically con
tested, the leading counsel against the Bill being the late
able and amiable Baron Alderson. The Bill, however,

passed the Commons, and ultimately the Lords, after an
equally strong contest; but Lord Lowther and his
friends were indefatigable, and to his lordship's great

exertions the success may be mainly attributed. At the

Itime was so completely prostrated by the effects of
Ithe fall which had met with at London Bridge, as
Ipreviously mentioned, that was unable to take any

very active part, which therefore chiefly devolved upon
my brother and Mr. Vignolles. After the passing of
the Bill, my brother and myself prepared working
drawings and estimates for carrying the work into
effect, and we naturally expected to be appointed the
executive engineers, after having with so much labour

and anxiety carried the Bill through Parliament. The

Executive Committee of the Company behaved extremely

ill to us. Stephenson, although he had failed in carry
ing the first Bill, still possessed considerable influence

with the Executive Committee, who proposed that
Mr. Stephenson should be united with us. We said
RAILWAY GAUGES.  230

that we had no objection to Mr. Stephenson taking
the locomotive department, which should be distinct

from the other works. This, however, the Committee

declined, and at once appointed Mr. Stephenson the
chief engineer, and Mr. Vignolles the resident.

   My brother and myself designed that the width of
gauge should be 5 feet 6 inches from centre to centre of
the rail, and if this had been adopted we should never
have heard of any other. This was the proper gauge
for which an engine could have been made of the most
powerful description, without being too long. Moreover,
the centre of gravity being lower, it would have been

more steady, being better adapted to going round sharp
curves. The same advantages would have been gained

by the passenger and goods carriages. Unfortunately,
Mr. Stephenson was of a different opinion : he thought
that the old colliery waggon gauge of 4 feet 8^ inches
from centre to centre of the rail was ample, and it was
adopted. Hence all the enormous litigation and expense
which afterwards ensued. Brunel subsequently, on

the Great Western Railway, feeling confident that
Stephenson's gauge was too narrow, proposed and ulti
mately adopted 7 feet as the proper gauge. Now this
was as much too wide as Stephenson's was too narrow.

Stephenson's party have ultimately prevailed, and the
narrow gauge has been generally adopted, much to
the efficiency and economy of railways.

   Before leaving this part of the subject, it may be

right to remark that the opposition endeavoured to
make a strong case against our line crossing Chatmoss,

which they said was utterly impracticable at any reason
able expense. This we knew from our own experience
to be simply ridiculous, and so it was found to be
during the execution ; it has now proved to be the
best part of the line, and the easiest to keep in repair.

All that was required was to drain the surface by

moderate-sized drains, so as to get rid of the super
240 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

fluous water, then the foundation for the rails would
be sufficiently solid to bear anything ; moreover, it
possesses a certain degree of elasticity which prevents
the concussion or jolting that is usually found on a

hard unyielding road. In 1828 the line was so far

advanced that the Company determined to advertise
for locomotives, and to give a premium of 1000/. for
the best one that was produced. Amongst the com
petitors were Messrs. Stephenson and Lord, Messrs.
Braithwaite and Ericsson, and Mr. T. Hackworth.

   The competition took place at Rainhill. The Com
pany restricted the weight of the engines to seven tons,
which shows how little the subject was at that time
understood, for the power of a locomotive engine is in

proportion to its weight and the steam generated to
work it ; hence it was quite clear that in restricting the

weight they restricted its power. Notwithstanding

this, the engines performed wonders, and attained the
speed of 28 to 29 miles an hour. This was so contrary
to the general expectation, for even the makers did not
expect above 8 or 10 miles an hour, that everybody
was astonished, and from that time forward the glorious
career of railways was established, and the old road
system for goods and passengers was condemned as a
thing of the past. The shares, which had been at a
discount, now rose to a premium, and numerous new
lines were in contemplation. Stephenson's engine, the
' Rocket,' gained the premium, as it complied with all
the required conditions, although that of Messrs. Braith
waite and Ericsson was in other respects considered

the best.

    The rails used upon this line were what is technically
called the edge rail. These were of cast iron, weighing

30 lb. per yard, and they were cast on lengths 3 feet long,
resting upon blocks of stone about 12 inches thick and

2 feet square, like the old tramways. Here is another
example of the little that was known upon the subject ;
SLEEPERS AND RAILS.  241

for it was forgotten that the old tramways were worked
by horses, which seldom exceeded the speed of 2| miles,
and, consequently, the vibration upon a tolerably well
made road was scarcely sensible, although it prevailed
to a certain extent; but when the velocity was in

creased to above 20 miles an hour, the case was totally

different, as should have been anticipated; yet the
line was opened for traffic on the old principle, until it
was found that the concussion and vibration produced
by the rigidity of the road were so serious as to cause
considerable trouble. On account of its elasticity, the

Chatmoss section was found to be the easiest and best

part of the road, yet it is singular that this did not

occur to the Company. They continued to use stone

blocks more or less up to the year 1837, when they
discovered their error, and replaced the blocks with
wooden sleepers, and large hillocks of these stone

blocks may still be seen lying along the Manchester

and Liverpool, and Birmingham lines.
    But to return to the edge rail, which was certainly a

Igreat improvement upon the old flange rail. This edge

rail was, believe, first invented by William Jessop, a
celebrated man of his time, and tried under Smeaton,
who proposed it for the Leicester and Loughborough
Tram Railway. The flange was transferred from the

rail to the inner edge of the waggon wheel ; and the edge
rail having no flange occasioned less friction to the shaft.
As the rails were manufactured of cast iron, they could
not be made longer than 3 feet without materially
increasing their liability to break; but there were so
many joints that it was very difficult to make a smooth
road and keep it in order, particularly when the speed
of travelling increased. Hence the use of stone blocks
had not been abandoned. This difficulty was at length
overcome by the substitution of wrought-iron rails,
which were first proposed by Buckenshaw. These
were laid on wooden sleepers, and this was another

                                                                                           R
242 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

great improvement ; but the numerous joints were still
a great difficulty in the way of making a smooth road

and keeping it in order. This was at last overcome by
making the rails in one single piece on rollers patented

for the purpose.
   Rails have now been increased from 30 to 80 lb. per

foot, and have been fished at every joint; that
plate has been fixed on each side with sufficient room                    is,
                                                                              is a
in the connecting bolt-holes to allow for expansion and

contraction.

    With regard to locomotives, numerous improve

ments have been made. We have first Watt's idea of

making steam engine, with its boiler complete, upon
it

     a
                a
an independent carriage, mounted upon wheels, so that

    could move in any direction and propel itself as well
                                                                    is ;
as weight attached to it a         mounted upon wheels also.
As the tramways of cast iron were then established,it,

this locomotive machine could have readily been apit,
plied to so that, in fact, to Watt may be attributed the
first practical idea of the locomotive engine, although

there are some doubts about this, for M. Cugnot
                                           a
                                                a
said to have made working model of locomotive

engine upon considerable scale, at Paris, in the year
                   a

1783. Be this as may, they were both made so

nearly about the same time that    it      difficult to decide

                                       is

which had the priority. At all events, Watt justly

entitled to the merit of having been the first to invent

it  in England.

   Hackworth's (of Darlington) engine was made about
the same time, and was similar to Stephenson's.

   The next improvement consisted in placing the

cylinders of the engine horizontally instead of verti

cally, so that the piston acted directly upon the axle

upon which the driving wheels were placed, instead
of by the intervention of double crank this made
                          a

                                                                 ;

the engine more compact.

    The next was the multitubular boiler, by means of
                   LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.                                                                         243

which the generation of steam was greatly accelerated,
in consequence of the increased surface exposed to the
I Iaction of the heat.1
                                                                                      was
      will now revert to 1826, the time when
asked my opinion as to the value of railways, and I
Isaid, in the most decided terms, to Lord Lowther, that

  thought very highly of them, that they must succeed

and eventually supersede every other mode of transport
for passengers and goods. Being quite convinced of

this, with which opinion my brother George cordially

Iagreed, I set about projecting lines to those places where

  thought they were most applicable; that where there
                                                             it
was actually a large and constant traffic, and where            a
                                                                        is,
a    more facile means of locomotion would be attended

    1with an increased trade. Next to the Liverpool and

     Manchester,   selected the London and Birmingham
                   I
     line, whilst my brother, in company with the late Jonas
                             it
     Jessop and William Chapman, chose direct line, from
                                            a
     the termination of mine at Birmingham, to Liverpool,a

       The blast- pipe, also, was one of the                 through into the chimney. When
                                                             this alteration was made, the engine
     most important improvements. Pre                        was again tried, and to their astonish
     vious to this invention was neces

     sary to employ bellows to keep up                       ment they not only got rid of the
     the fire in the boiler, and these were                  annoyance of the steam, but the bel

     worked by the engine, so that good                      lows were of no use, and the faster

     deal of power was wasted in order to                    the engine went the more vigorous

     keep the furnace going, and the greater                 became the fire. Upon thinking over
     the speed, the greater the power neces                  this coolly, the mystery was soon ex

     sary to work the bellows; moreover, the                 plained, for the hot steam being dis
                                                             charged into the comparatively cold
     waste steam ejected from the cylinders
     was constantly puffing out in the faces                 chimney, vacuum was produced,a
     of the drivers, so that they could not                  and the air rushed through the fur
     see clearly before them. This was                       nace to fill up the vacuum the
                                                                                      ;

     great annoyance, which they were                        faster the engine went the greater the
     most anxious to get rid of, but no                      amount of steam sent up the chimney,
     body seemed to know how. At last,
     either Stephenson, Hackworth, or                        and the more active the draught
     Booth, or somebody else, whilst                         through the furnace. The bellows

                                                             became wholly unnecessary, so much

     driving an engine, and being much                       power was saved, and the nuisance

     annoyed       b"yCotnhfeounbdlowthinegsteianm  their    of the escaping steam was entirely
     faces, said,                                       let  got rid of. This was really a great
                                                             step towards in rendering the locomo
       it

                                                         ;
                                                                                    is

                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                  R
                                                                                      2 it

                                                                                                                      is
     us send up the chimney." A pipe

     was accordingly made, connecting the                    tive more effective and                                      very
     cylinder with the chimney, so that
                                                             difficult to ascertain to whom the im

     the discharged steam might be ejected                   provement justly due.
241 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIR

so that the two lines together would have consider

ably reduced the distance between London, Birmingham,

and Liverpool. My line proceeded by Aylesbury, Ban
bury, Bicester, Kenilworth, and Warwick, to the higher

part of   Birmingham ; and my    brother's from thence by
                                 bridge across the Mersey
Stafford   and Runcorn --with a
at that place --to Liverpool. Thus London, Birmingham,

and Liverpool, the three largest and most important
commercial towns in the kingdom, would have been

connected together in the shortest possible distance and

with the least expensive works practicable. The project,

upon the whole, was well received, but the public were
not quite prepared for such an undertaking ; in fact, it
was in advance of the time, and for a while fell to the

ground. Canals had not fallen into disrepute, and Mr.
Telford, who succeeded my father in carrying into

effect the great improvements proposed by him for the

Birmingham Canal, suggested a continuation of this

(through the very district which my brother, Jessop,

and Chapman had proposed to carry their railway), to

connect it with the Bridgewater and Mersey canal to

Liverpool ; this was accordingly executed, and, as regards
a commercial speculation, failed entirely, as it was soon

superseded by railways. The fact was, that Telford,

having been bred in the old school, and having seen the

triumph of canals, could not, or would not, believe in
the efficacy of railways, or that they would ever succeed ;

and, indeed, he laughed heartily when he had succeeded

in supplanting my brother's line of railway from Bir
mingham to Liverpool by a canal. He had a strong
prejudice against railways, which he maintained until
his death, in 1 835. He had just finished his great work
the Holyhead Road, with the great connecting suspen
sion bridges of Conway and Bangor, and of which, with

good reason, he was justly proud, and could not bear
the idea of their being superseded by any other system

of locomotion. Although an able engineer in many
LONDON AND BRIGHTON RAILWAY.

respects, he was not much of a practical mechanic, and

very likely conscientiously thought that railways would
not succeed. He had done his work well in his own

department, and was too old to learn anything new. He
died at a good old age, much respected and beloved by
those who knew him, and leaving numerous monuments
behind him of his engineering talents.

  Another important line of railway which I proposed

Iat this time was one between London and Brighton,

and employed two very experienced and competent
surveyors, Messrs. Edward Grantham and Jago, who
had frequently been employed by my father to make
surveys in various parts of England, particularly in
the region between London and Portsmouth, and the
Weald of Kent, so that they had a thorough knowledge
of the district. After
                           examining the country myself,
I directed that the line  should commence at Kennington

Common, and proceed from thence by Clapham and
Streatham to the lower end of Croydon ; from thence
up Smitham Bottom valley to the hill at Merstham,
which was to be pierced by a tunnel ; from thence to
Redhill, Horley, and the valley to the Cinder Banks at
the base of the ridge of hills called Tilgate Forest, where

there was to be another tunnel ; from thence, skirting
the left side of the valley near Balcombe, to the valley
of the Ouse, which was to be crossed by a viaduct, and

thence to Hayward's Heath, between Lindfield and

Cuckfield, where it passed through another ridge of hills
by a deep cutting ; it then proceeded direct to the South

down hills, near Clayton Hill, which was to be pierced
by a tunnel ; thence down the valley to Brighton,
where it terminated at the upper end of the town on the
right side of the valley. This line extended from Ken

nington Common to Brighton. The country is very
rugged, having three lofty ridges of hills running east

and west, which it was necessary to pass through, as

there are no leading valleys or gaps to facilitate the
246 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SI I! JOHN RENNIE.

passage without going a long way round, which would
have defeated my object. This line might have been

shortened nearly a mile by going direct from Tilgate

Forest to Cuckfield, but the works would have been

much heavier, and could scarcely have been justified

Iat the time, as the public were not prepared for such
expensive operations.         also employed Mr. Vignolles

to survey another line from Nine Elms, Vauxhall, by

Dorking, Horsham, and Shoreham ; from thence along
the coast to the west end of Brighton. This line, upon

Ithe whole, was easier of execution than the other, but it

was five miles longer, which considered objectionable,

as my object was to lay down the shortest possible line

Ibetween the two termini, so as to render all future com

petition out of the question. By this time was so

Ifully convinced of the ultimate success of railways, both

for speed and economy, that announced in the pro
spectus, that when the railway system had been intro
duced into France, the journey from London to Paris

might be made by this route in twelve hours ; however,

at this period no passenger railway had been completed,

and therefore my statement was considered only as a

rough guess, which might never come to pass, and there

fore a company could not be formed. At the same time

I employed competent persons to make the survey for

a coast line from Brighton to Worthing, Arundel, Chi

chester, Havant, Portsmouth, Southampton, Salisbury,

and thence to Warminster, with the intention of extend

ing it hereafter to Bristol.

   The Manchester and Liverpool Railway was opened
with great ceremony, when the Duke of Wellington,

then Premier, and Mr. Huskisson, the President of the

Board of Trade, attended. Unfortunately, the latter

most able Minister was killed, by being run over by

one of the locomotives. Poor Huskisson was standing
between the two lines of rails, with the Duke and

several others, when the engine came up unexpectedly ;
       LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.        2-17

he lost his presence of mind, and took a wrong step,
which ended in a death universally deplored by the

nation, as well as by his numerous friends.

The success of the Manchester and Liverpool railway

having been established, the next thing was to extend

the line to Birmingham, and a company was im
mediately formed for the purpose, with Mr. George
Stephenson as engineer. About the same time another

line was projected by his son Robert, from London to

Birmingham, pursuing pretty nearly the line of the old

Grand Junction or Paddington Canal ; this line was

longer than mine, led over much more difficult country,

and did not pass through the same number of towns
and population, although it touched the important city

of Coventry.

My line commenced at Blackwall, and pursued the

route of the Regent's Canal, nearly similar to the

line of railway which my father had formerly laid

down.

There were two strong parties, one of which sup

ported Stephenson's line, and the other mine ; but

ultimately Stephenson's party was the strongest, he

carried his line by one or two votes, and the present

London and Birmingham railway was executed.

The route to Liverpool was unnecessarily long, and

therefore a new line was started to shorten the dis

tance, called the Trent Valley Line, which commenced

at Rugby, and joined the Birmingham line at Stafford,

thus cutting off the angle at Birmingham, and saving a

considerable distance. This line was strongly opposed,

but was carried, it is said, by the influence of the late
ISir R. Peel, and was executed, believe, at the cost of
Ifthree millions.
                   my own and my brother's line had

been carried out, this would have been unnecessary,

as a branch to Stafford would have sufficed for that

and other towns, and Birmingham would have been

upon the main line. It is singular, also, that Telford's
248 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

canal, which supplanted our line, has been absorbed by

the adjacent railways.

  IHaving now, in a rather rambling manner, brought

my professional diary so far, must revert again to

some incidents connected with my private life. On
the death of Sir Joseph Banks, Sir Humphry Davy

Iwas unanimously elected President of the Royal Society

in the year 1820, and had the honour of being elected

IFellow, 1823.

     was elected member of the Travellers' Club, 1822.
This club was formed in the year 1818, for the express

purpose of associating travellers together, and for pro

moting travelling. It was enacted that no person was

eligible to become a member unless he had travelled

on the Continent, in a direct line, 500 miles from

London, and great things were expected from it; but
although it was the first travelling club established in

London, and contained amongst its members the most

distinguished travellers, it shortly degenerated into

an ordinary club, and nothing has ever emanated from
it towards extending our knowledge of the globe,

or in publishing the travels of the numerous able

men who belonged to it. Sir Arthur de Capel Brooke,

who was a member of     a          and who travelled good
                                       ;a
deal himself, particularly in the north of Europe,it,

going as far as the North Cape, and who published an;

interesting account of his journey, spoke to my brothers,

myself, and numerous other travellers on the subject,
proposing to establish new club, composed of none
but distinguished travellers he suggested that this, in

the first instance, should be nothing more than a dining

club, to meet once every month, saying that travellers

meeting together in this social manner would com

municate to each other their various voyages, and

would stimulate each other to further discoveries that

although mere social club in the first instance, in
a

time some good would result, and that in the end a
     ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY.                                    240

regular scientific society might be established for the
promotion of geography. He accordingly collected
together all the distinguished travellers of the day,

naval, military, and civil, and a most delightful
society it was; the result clearly proved Sir Arthur

Brooke's sagacity, for from the Raleigh Club was
Ioriginated the Royal Geographical Society.
                                                                    am not
Iquite certain with whom the idea first originated, but

recollect that at one meeting, when, amongst others, the
late distinguished traveller and Secretary to the Admi
ralty, Sir John Barrow, was present, an animated con

versation took place, to the effect that the Raleigh Club

had been in existence many years, and a very agree
able club it was ; but, except amusing each other with

our adventures, we had done nothing towards pro

moting our original intention, which was to stimulate

Idiscovery in foreign lands, and to extend the knowledge
Bofargreoowgrtahpehnysathidr,o"ugWhhouyt  the world.  think      Sir John
                                                                 real geo
                                          cannot we establish a

graphical society, and read papers, and publish transac

tions, like other scientific societies ?" The idea caught at
once : the whole of the members then present applauded
                                          into effect. A committee
it,  and resolved to carry
     a
                                                      think, of the
                          ;

                         a

                      it

                              aI
was appointed, and every member,
club joined. A general meeting was then called,

members soon joined, and Sir John Barrow was ap

pointed first president                   council and vice-presidents

were chosen, house was taken in Waterloo Place,

Colonel Jackson was chosen secretary, royal charter

was applied for and obtained, and the society was

duly instituted, under the name of the Royal Geo

graphical Society. This society, like all others in their

infancy, had a good deal to contend with                          went on
     it,
                 it

                             it
                                                                 ;

                                           it it
well for a time, but at length began to languish.

It required some man of weight and influence to de

vote his time to to enlist the Government heartily

in the cause, and to make understand that was its
250 .    AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

interest, on the part of the public, to promote the

Society by every means in its power. Fortunately, at
that time the Society had in Sir Roderick Murchison

the very man most competent to undertake this arduous

office. He worked hard ; he convinced the Government

of the utility of the Society, and the many advantages

that would be afforded by its existence, as it could

collect information upon all geographical subjects, at

far less expense than could be obtained by any Govern
ment establishment ; it would, moreover, stimulate

travellers to increased exertions, and accumulate a
fund of geographical information -- knowledge that is

so important to a commercial country like our own.
The then head of the Government was so much

struck by the representations made to him of the value
of the Society and of the advantage it would be to the

Government, that he resolved in the House of Commons

to grant 500/. a year in aid of its funds. This at once

revived the members' spirits; they started, as it were

afresh; the Society became exceedingly popular, and
there was no end of applications to be enrolled as

members, both from ladies and gentlemen, and ever

since then it has been one of the most, if not the most,

popular societies of the day.

The old Raleigh Club, from which the Geographical

Society originated, having done its duty, and most of

its original members having succumbed to time, there

was no longer any necessity for its existence ; but as all

scientific societies have their dining clubs, which meet

on the days of the societies' meetings, it was resolved to

merge the Raleigh into the Geographical Club.

   In the year 1824, John Wilson Croker, Esq., origi

nated the Athseneum Club, for men distinguished in

Iscience, literature, and art, and asked me to become a
member.  was only too happy to be associated with

such a company as he collected together.

Sir Humphry Davy, in the year 1825, originated the
THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.  251

IZoological Society, and asked me to join, which did most

willingly, and perhaps it has been the most popular
and successful of any modern society of that kind.

It commenced operations by purchasing the well-

Iknown Cross collection of Exeter 'Change, in which in

my early days took an especial delight; for, consi
dering all things, it was a very wonderful collection,
and it is difficult to understand how, in such a con

fined and unhealthy spot, it could have been maintained
in such good condition. The only other exhibition of
the kind in London was at the Tower; the collection

of animals there consisted of presents from the sove
reigns of different countries. These were afterwards

lent to the Zoological Society, who established their
museum in the Regent's Park, and, taking it altogether,

it is probably the finest and best maintained in the

world.
252 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

CHAPTEE V.

Travels in the North of EoRorE and Spain.

Having been very hard worked, and being in bad
health, owing to my still suffering from the effects of
Imy fall into the cofferdam of London Bridge, I felt the
necessity for some relaxation.  therefore made my

arrangements for a short continental tour, resolving to

visit the north of Europe. Adhering to my original

Iplan, shall only mention those places and occurrences
Iwhich, for particular reasons, think, may possess some

little interest, and shall pass over the ordinary de
scriptions of places and things which are now so well

known as to be hackneyed. My journey, principally by

sea, from London to St. Petersburg passed without

incident, except that off the Island of Bornholm we met
the Russian fleet, consisting of seven sail of the line. It

was a fine sight, and the ships seemed well handled;
but one line-of-battle ship in going about missed stays,
and got into what the sailors term irons, that is to say,

she would move neither way. Our sailors laughed

heartily, and we could see by the signals made
from the flag-ship that the admiral was very much

annoyed.

  On board the steamer I made acquaintance with Lieu

tenant Conolly, who intended to take the route from St.
Petersburg overland to India -- a particularly difficult
and dangerous journey; but Conolly was an intelligent,
ardent, and courageous person, anxious for information,
and ambitious to explore a route which had hardly ever

been undertaken before ; but he unfortunately fell a
victim to his ambition. He was a little man, deter
                  ST. PETERSBURG.  253

mined and energetic, capable of undergoing great

Ifatigue, and a very agreeable and sociable companion.

He and took to eacb other and became great friends,
and entertained the pleasing idea of meeting again after
his return from India; but this never took place, for he

Iwas murdered with his companions.

    Conolly and got our luggage together as soon as

possible after landing, and drove to the Grand Hotel,

Iwhich was then a sort of barrack or caravanserai, near

the Newski Prospect. Before seeing the city, pre
sented the various letters of introduction with which

I had been provided ; amongst others were several from

my old friend, Chevalier Benkausen, the Russian Consul-

General in London.

I IwbyhowmfhirosImthcaaIdllwepdarseuvmpiooounsstlLycookrrdndoiHawlelnyytawesseMblcuorr.myA,edbo.buortta,maalsbtoaNswsaaapdiltoeersd,,

Iupon all the authorities, and was well received by

them ; but the person to whom was most indebted

was my friend, General Wilson, a sensible Scotchman,
who had entered the Civil Service of the Govern

ment, as engineer to the cotton, gun, and general
iron manufactures, for which he had erected a large

Iestablishment at Kolpnau, about 13 or 14 miles from

St. Petersburg. This place visited with him; it

was very complete, for the Emperor Nicholas, who

was at times very fond of Englishmen and everything

English, had taken Wilson and his establishment under

his especial protection, and had given him authority

to incur any reasonable expenditure to make it per
fect. Wilson, therefore, imported the newest and most
improved machines and tools of every kind from Eng

land, and obtained also the best of English workmen.
The cotton manufactories were upon a most extensive
and imposing scale ; in fine buildings, with hosts of

employe's, they were conducted in the true imperial

style, that  is,  with great show, but little profit.
254 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Still, they were not without their advantages; they
were the means of training a set of native workmen,

who, although not inventive, are excellent imitators,
consequently after a time their services must have
been valuable. The same may be said of the iron
manufactories, particularly as Russia has some of the
richest iron mines, and they only require skilled
workmen to develop them to their utmost; Wilson
contributed materially towards this; and it was impos
sible to have selected a better man for this purpose. He
possessed a calm even temper, firm, but just, and con
ciliating, with a competent knowledge of what he
undertook to perform, without possessing any consider
able amount of invention. He spoke the Russian
language like a native, besides French and German.
He therefore most justly possessed a good deal of
influence, and was thoroughly liked and respected,
from the humblest workman under his orders up to the
Emperor, who was very fond of him. Lastly, he was
thoroughly honest, a rare thing in Russia in those days,
where peculation was rife from the highest to the

lowest; and if Wilson had followed the universal

example, which he might have done with impunity,
he would have made a large fortune ; but after many
years' service he died comparatively poor. Although
anything but a military man, he was a general in
the Russian service, and was decorated with several

stars and orders. All persons officially employed like

Wilson had military rank ; he concealed this as much
 as he could ; but in St. Petersburg he was always
 obliged to wear uniform, and as there were guard
 houses in almost every street, whenever he passed the
 guard turned out to salute him, which annoyed him

 much.

    There was another remarkable Scotchman, of the

name of Baird, with whom I made acquaintance. He

 was, however, a totally different character -- a shrewd,
     ST. PETERSBURG.                                                    255

intelligent, clever, active, indefatigable person, wholly-
devoted to making money. He was in constant commu

nication with England; and as soon as a patent was

taken out there for any new invention, if it was appli

cable in Russia he at once imported and patented
and thus obtained monopoly. He cultivated, with the
     a
         aa

                                                                  it,
greatest tact and assiduity, all the officials, from the
highest to the lowest, as well as all persons of any in
fluence, and had thorough understanding with them,

particularly with the police and officers of customs;

thus he contrived to gain the greatest influence, and

secured almost monopoly of everything worth having.

If ever the Government was desirous of contracting
for any large work, Baird was almost sure of obtaining

it,
    at the best price. Whether his numerous friends
were interested in the profits resulting from these

multifarious undertakings  best known to himself
     a
                is

                                  ;
                                                    ;

                                   it
                                         is

                                                                                      ;
but according to the ordinary practice of human nature,

particularly in Russia at that time, everybody en

deavoured to make the most he could, and                                probable

that there was no exception in this case but suffice to

say that Baird made very large fortune, with which

he retired to his native country and we must not omit

to mention that Baird, whilst benefiting himself, was of

the greatest service to Russia, and tended materially to

advance her prosperity by the numerous valuable in

ventions he introduced, and by training the natives,

and inciting them and urging them to make all sorts of

improvements, which, without such man, would never
a

 I
                      I
                          I

                                                                     a
have been undertaken, so that nobody grudged his

wealth, and he left the country to which he had been

     real benefactor universally liked and esteemed. As

to myself, personally, feel much indebted to him;

through his kindness had the opportunity of knowing

many persons and seeing many things which otherwise

would have been out of my power.

     frequently dined at the cafe's and restaurants when
25C AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

not otherwise engaged, and at some of the best of them

Imet persons of the first class, who were always very

well bred and polite. One day dined at one of the

best table d'h6tes, when several persons of high rank

were present, and amongst them a young naval officer

of good family. Amongst other subjects of conversa
tion, the recent taking of Varna came forward, and

Ithe naval officer seemed to speak rather disparagingly

of it. observed one of the superior waiters looking

at him and listening attentively for some time, then he

quietly went up to him and whispered a few words in

his ear, which my neighbour told me was an order to

hold his tongue, for such conversation would not be

allowed. The fact was that all these waiters were em

ployed by, or in the pay of, the police, and all conversa

tions were reported. The young naval officer held his

tongue immediately, and the party broke up very
Ishortly afterwards, and was told that the matter
Iwould not end there.  took the hint also, for nothing
Iwas more dangerous than to talk politics, and avoided

them ever after.

   In considering the position of St. Petersburg, it
    a
                    a

                                              a
                                                           is
                                                              is
                                                                    is,
perhaps, difficult to find more inconvenient and un
healthy spot for great seaport town than that chosen

for the Russian capital, at the mouth of the Neva, at

the head of the Gulf of Finland, where there          no

tide, and where the greatest depth over the bar only
seven feet, so that none but vessels of small class can

ascend the river. Hence, though within the bar there

is  ample depth of water at all times, large mercantile

vessels are obliged to stop at Cronstadt, seven miles

distant, and there discharge their cargoes, which are
transferred to St. Petersburg in lighters in like
    is

                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                    ;
manner they receive their cargoes from the capital

this, of course, attended with great delay and con
siderable expense. Moreover, during the prevalence of
strong westerly winds, the waters of the Gulf of Fin
                            CltONSTADT.                    257

       land are heaped up at the upper end, and those of the
       Neva are driven hack, so that it frequently happens
       that a large portion of the city is inundated; and in

       November, in the year 1827, a terrible example of this
       occurred. In many parts of the city the waters rose

       more than fourteen feet, many thousand persons were

       drowned, and a vast amount of valuable property was
       destroyed. These inundations might be avoided, and

       the port improved to a considerable extent, although
       it would necessarily require a very great expenditure.
       Still the object to be gained is of such importance that

       every reasonable means should be adopted to effect
       and compared with the enormous sums which have;

       been expended in establishing this capital, the cost of   it,
       improving the port would appear trifling.
                  is,
       Cronstadt             isproperly speaking, the port of St.

                                             ;
Petersburg. Here all vessels, whether of war or

       merchandise, must stop and the southern side of the

       island, where there                    the deepest water, from 24 to

       27 feet, has been chosen as the site for the naval
       arsenal, as well as the port for merchant vessels, where
       docks had been made when was there by enclosingI

         portion of the water space from the gulf the two
aa     basins or harbours were close together, separated only
      aby partition wall. The accommodation for the mer

       cantile vessels, although not small, nevertheless was in
         rude state, devoid of the usual mechanical appliances

       which we have for many years been so accustomed to in

       England.

       The naval arsenal, which was made in the time of
       Peter the Great, and was considered perfect at the time
          was made, consists of long canal leading from the
it

                  a
                                               a
outer to small circular basin. Connected with this

there were four dry docks for the line-of-battle ships
of that period. From this the circular basin on the

east side was connected with two other dry docks and
                                                     ;

       around these canals, basin and docks, there were several
258 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

storehouses and magazines ; but upon the whole they

Iwere badly arranged.
       may here as well mention that my brother and
myself afterwards, at the request of the Emperor,

designed a complete naval establishment for this place,

Iutilizing as much as we could of the old construction,

and this design, believe, was to some extent adopted.

We afterwards built four iron steamboats, with their

engines, for the Caspian Sea, which were the first ever

afloat there. These vessels were built in England, then
taken to pieces, and sent with the requisite number of

workmen to Odessa. Thence by land they were trans

ported to the Caspian, where they were again put
together, with their engines, and answered their pur

pose well. We afterwards made the iron gates for the
docks of Sebastopol, a pair of which were subsequently

brought to England and France as war trophies. We
also constructed several vessels of war, worked by the

screw, for the Baltic and Black Seas ; amongst others a

yacht for the Emperor, to review his fleets in the Gulf
of Finland, as well as for pleasure excursions. This was

a small vessel, about 260 tons, with a pair of oscillating
engines of the nominal power of 120 horses, although
capable of working up to three times that power, and
making fully 14 knots an hour. She was fitted up plainly

but very neatly. From circumstances over which we had

no control, the completion was prolonged to a later period

of the year than we anticipated ; and it was not before

the middle of October, 1850, that we were ready to leave

England, when my brother and his son George deter

mined to go with her and deliver her in person. She

Iwas well insured, and was navigated by an English
cshapartapinfe--llowwh--o,       observed at  the time,  was not  a very
                                                         she was  a small
                            and an English    crew. As

vessel she had to take a considerable quantity of coals

on deck, which brought her down beyond her usual

line of floatation. I went with her as far as Gravesend,
WRECK OF THE EMPEROR'S YACHT.                    259

and saw them fairly on their voyage, but before she

reached the Baltic she encountered a severe storm, when

she behaved admirably. At Copenhagen she took in

more coals, and started again, and in the Baltic

encountered another severe storm, which she got

through equally as well as before. The weather then

became fine, and they thought that all their troubles

were over. The last storm had driven her considerably

out of her course, which the captain had not taken a
correct account of ; and one fine starlight night, about

ten o'clock, they were steaming away with a smooth

sea, at the rate of about 10 to 12 knots an hour, when

                                     of the
                                     called
the engineer, putting his head out

Ito enjoy the fine evening, suddenly
I see land,"                                 oeuntg, in"e-htohuisnek

captain said,  and   went at once    to the captain. The
                     is impossible.  We cannot be nearer
               " It

land than 30 or 40 miles." The captain and the Rus

sian officer and my brother were at the time in the

cabin taking their grog comfortably before going to
bed. But he quickly went upon deck and soon dis
covered his error, and ordered the vessel to be put
about ; but before this could be done she struck upon
a rock, and in spite of all their endeavours she could

not be got off. The Russian officer declined taking
any of the responsibility, saying it lay with the

captain, and he would have nothing to do with it.

At daylight they found themselves hard and fast

upon the Island of Dago. My brother, finding that

nothing could be done to get the vessel off, resolved
with his son to make his way at once to St. Petersburg,
and report the loss of the vessel. As the winter had

begun, the journey was attended with considerable

difficulty. However, they reached St. Petersburg, and

hheadheaanrdauthdeienstcoery,oflauthgeheEdmhpeearortrilyN,icahnodlassa,idw, h"o,Nowwh,enif

this had occurred under the command of Russian

officers and sailors, what would the English have said ?

                                             s2
200 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOIIN RENNIE.

why, that no wonder an accident had occurred, when

the vessel was confided to those stupid fellows, the
Russians. Now, you see, it has happened with the

English ; and they, with all their pretended knowledge,

              the Baltic                       astnudpisdaidth, a"n
              Again he
Idon't know                                                          the
                                                                     am
Russians."
                          yet, and  are more
                          laughed   heartily,

Idelighted to find that my sailors are, after all, as clever

as the English, and under the circumstances am not

sorry that the yacht is lost. It will teach the English

in future not to be so proud of their knowledge, and to

give the Russians credit for knowing the Baltic as well

as they do."

Although the yacht was wrecked, we lost nothing,

neither did the Emperor, for he was insured to the

full, and we received an order to make another of pre

cisely the same size. The underwriters, as soon as they

heard of the accident, sent out a clever fellow, Captain
Farr, who, upon arriving at the spot where the vessel

was stranded, found that she had not received much

damage ; he, therefore, finding that the season was too

far advanced to take her back to England, or even to

get her into any Baltic port, at once weighed her and

then sank her in deeper water in order that she might
be protected during the winter. In the spring he

returned, weighed her again, and took her to Revel,

where he repaired the trifling damage she had re

ceived, then returned with her to England, calling at

Hamburg on his way, and from thence she made a

Iquicker voyage that had ever been made before.
saw her in the East India Dock, and she looked quite

Inew; and unless I had known should never have

supposed that she had been stranded, and been a

whole winter under water in the Baltic. She after

wards sold, I think, for 9000, having originally cost

14,000/. ; and as the insurers had been paid nearly

4000/. for the original insurance, the underwriters

scarcely lost anything. Thus we gained considerably
by the accident, having to make two yachts instead of
                             MOSCOW.                                  20.1

One, and neither the Emperor nor the underwriters lost

Ianything.                   started for Moscow, tra

   Leaving St. Petersburg

versing 400 miles of most uninteresting country in an

I--opeansdroschky, drawn     --atbythefourar tehoorsfe1s0   miles an  hour
             paid liberally                                abreast.    The
Ionly noticeable place passed through was Novogorod,
a considerable town, with a good deal of activity, and

apparently an extensive trade. Here the two great

water - carriage systems met, connecting the Baltic

with the Black Sea, and also with the Caspian. The

canals were crowded with vessels laden with the pro

ducts of the East and West; natives from the East clad

in their flowing garments, Tartars, with their bows

and arrows, Cossacks from the Don, Armenian, Greek,

and Turkish merchants, and the never - failing Jew,

English, French, and Germans, all mixed together, and

Icarrying on their particular business, formed a very
amusing and busy .scene.     contrived to get a toler

I Iable dinner there, the only one deserving of the name

since left Petersburg ; devoted two or three hours

to looking over the canal-works, which, for that time,

were not badly executed, but the town contained

nothing remarkable.

   On reaching Moscow, what struck me most was the
Eastern appearance of the inhabitants, particularly

when compared with the extremely modern look of
Ithe town itself. The Kremlin, of course,
Inot describe.                                                        need

                visited the celebrated Riding House,

which is 1200 feet long, covered by a wooden roof, of

the single span of 240 feet ; it is without doubt the
finest and largest shed in the world, and a splendid

piece of carpentry, well worth going some distance to

see. It is frequently used for reviewing troops in un

favourable weather, and it is said that ten thousand

men can go through    their exercises under its shelter.
   On my way from
                      Moscow to Warsaw I had no idea
that this great road
                      --one of the principal in Russia,
202 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Iand, upon the whole, not       through                                      an unproductive
                                 totally                                     unprovided with
country -- should find so
anything for the accommodation of travellers. In
Ithose days
             certainly did not expect much, and
Ihaving travelled in more barbarous countries, could
submit cheerfully to a good deal ; but I certainly did
not expect that it would be so bad as I found
                                                                             Iand

therefore carried little with me, contrary to my usual                                 it,
I                                                                                           it it
       I

                             ;

                 if
practice. This certainly repented of, for our fare

was most miserable              we got eggs, butter, cheese,

and bread, we thought ourselves lucky, though some

times we got better provisions; however, perhaps

was well, for although ill when started, began to
                                aI
get better, and slept soundly. My man Weiss con
soled himself with plenty of vodki, and considering

the rough fare we got could not altogether blame
;

                      I
him. We passed Smolensk]', and very poor place

was there was nothing like an hotel, nor any accom

modation for travellers. Although seventeen years
had elapsed since the invasion of the French in 1812,

the remains of the fire and battle which took place
                                were still very visible.
when the French captured
             I

                                     a

                                    it

                                                                          ;
When we entered Poland cultivation appeared to be

carried on more extensively and with greater skill, and

the people seemed more intelligent we passed several

large proprietors' houses.

   At Warsaw attended review of the garrison, in

the Great Square, in honour of the recent victories of

the Russians over the Turks. It consisted of about

twelve thousand men of all arms, commanded by the

Grand Duke Constantine, the Viceroy.                                         never saw
                                it

                                               I

                                                                           a
finer troops in my life, nor any that manoeuvred

better. Before the review mass was said in their

midst, and when Te Deum was sung by the whole of
the men -- and they sang with great skill--the effect

was very fine, and was rendered still more so by salvo

of one hundred and one guns, fired from the forts.
          RETURN TO LONDON.                        263

I returned rapidly through Germany, and reached
home after an absence of sixty-five days, during which

Iperiod I had travelled nearly thirty nights.
        immediately visited London Bridge, and found

everything going on well. In fact, during my absence

my brother George had diligently looked after my

business as well as his own.

IMy brother George married the only daughter of Sir
John Jackson, Bart., in June 1828.                 had then taken

a house for myself, No. 15, Whitehall Place, where my

two younger brothers, Matthew and James, lived with

Ime for about a couple of years.    saw a good deal

   At this time, as a bachelor,

of society, and made acquaintance with most of the

celebrated scientific men of the day, also the leading
                                                   In fact,
literati, artists, painters, and sculptors.
I Iwhen could tear myself away from my business

Ipassed my time most agreeably and profitably in that
distinguished society.  numbered amongst my ac
quaintance Sir H. Davy, Dr. Young, Wollaston, Dawes,
Gilbert, Sir A. Cooper, Sir D. Home, Laurence, Greene,

Playfair, Leslie, Whewell, Peacock, Hopkins, Liston,

Barlow, Irving, Bailey, Colby, Parley, Sedgwick,

Greenough, Delabeche, Meecham, Lyell, Brande, Fara
day, Christie, Allen, Pepys, Sir James M'Intosh, W. W.

Scott, J. W. Croker, J. Barrow, Sir S. Raffles, Marsden,

Sir F. Chantrey, Sir T. Lawrence, Turner, Calcott,

Stansfield, Behnes, Chalon, Sir A. M. Shee, Eastlake,

Varley, Martin, Philips, Theodore Hook, Samuel

Rogers, Southey, Robert Brown, Hallam, Sir A. Alison,

Sir J. Parry, Sir J. Franklin, Sir John Ross, the late Sir
J. Lubbock, the late Admiral Fitzroy, Professor Owen,

and many  others, and   --lasHt,umnobtolldeta,st,   Mrs. Somerville.
Amongst    foreigners                              Laplace, Cuvier,

Arago, Pring, Gerard, Cardinal Mezzofauite, Mailenette,
Wree-Viking, and Von Breek.
In 1833, having now completed London, Hyde Park,
264 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIB.

Staines, and Crammond bridges, the great naval works
at Sheerness, Woolwich, and Chatham, the Victualling
Department, or Royal William Yard, and a large por
tion of the breakwater at Plymouth, Sunderland, Port
Patrick, Donaghadee, Port Rush, and a large portion of
Kingstown Harbours, the Eau Brink Cut, the Nene

IOutfall, the Witham Outfall, the Ancholme Drainage,

and several other minor works, was almost knocked

up, and was recommended to take another continental

I Ijourney for recreation. As had never seen Spain

determined to go there, and accordingly started in the
mail for Falmouth, and reached Cadiz on the fifth day.

   Whilst at Gibraltar there was a grand military and
civil fete, given by the governor of the fort Algesiras
on the opposite side of the bay, to celebrate the esta
blishment of the constitution, when he invited the
governor of Gibraltar, Sir W. Houston, one of King
William IV.'s most attached followers, and who had

received me most kindly, and all the officers of the
garrison. The governor of course could not go, nor

Iall the officers; but a considerable number did, and

went in a boat in company with a number of the
officers of the Rifles, while a great many rode round
by land. We were received in the most courteous
manner by the governor and the Spanish officers, and
were most hospitably entertained.

  On leaving Gibraltar I bargained with a respectable

Spanish muleteer named Manuel, well known and re
commended by my landlord, for the hire of four good
mules, one each for myself and servant, and two for
the baggage -- which Manuel and his man occasionally

Imounted also. My idea was to go by Ronda to Malaga,

but was advised not to do as was reported to be
greatly infested by brigands moreover, Spain at the
time of my visit was in very disturbed state on account
of the Carlist war, and to add to this the cholera spread
dismay and terror in most quarters, so that the time
a

        ; it,
                it
GRANADA.                                   205

was very unfavourable for travel ; still I determined to

Igo on, and trusted to Providence for a happy deliver

ance, only instead of going by Ronda determined to

take the coast road. We proceeded through a wild,

uncultivated country, and after two days' travelling

reached Malaga about sunset, and took up our quarters
at a comfortable little hotel situated in a narrow street

near the Alameda. Here our consul, Mr. March, warned

Ime against going any farther without waiting for some
companions ; but as my time was valuable,  thanked

him for his advice, and determined to proceed, and after

two days' stay started again, sleeping the first night at
Velez, or Old Malaga. After supper Manuel came in

and said that there were several suspicious characters

about the village, and that, moreover, our arrival had

caused some commotion ; he had therefore told the

landlord that we should start at daybreak, but strongly
recommended our setting out two hours earlier. This

we accordingly did, and at midday reached the old
Moorish town of Alharaa, perched upon the summit
of the pass which separates Malaga from the vale of

Granada ; from here we descended into another rich

vale, which, well irrigated and cultivated, teemed with

wine, oil, corn, and fruits, and was filled with villages

and chateaux, all indicating wealth and prosperity ; yet

withal there was a certain degree of wildness intermixed

with which made appear as they were only half-

civilized. It was long after dark before we reached
I

     a it,

              II

                          it

                                                          ;

                                      if

                                                                                           a

                                                                                                                                                       ;
Granada, then we had to go to the custom-house, where

the officers were very much inclined to be troublesome

but made friends in the usual comfortable manner, and
got to posada near the centre of the town -- not bad

place, and which was very glad to get into. Manuel

came in whilst was at supper and congratulated me

upon our safe arrival he said that for the last two

hours he expected that we should be attacked every

minute, and he therefore had urged us on as fast as
2C6 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIB.

possible ; in fact, we came latterly at the rate of about
eight miles an hour, which, he said, had saved us. The

Icity of Granada, although extensive, appeared to be,

like most of the towns there saw, in a state of deca
dence, little trade, and consequently no prosperity. The
lords of the soil seldom visited their estates, but left the
whole to their factors or managers ; and when the
proprietor did come, he seemed to take no interest
in his tenants or labourers, but lived in a half-ruined
chateau in a miserable manner, reserving all for show
and extravagance. Manuel said, that as our route lay
through the mountains, and as it was very unsafe, it
was absolutely necessary to take one or two escopoteros

Ior armed police, to escort us at least as far as Andujar :

this at once consented to do, and we were now no con
temptible party, consisting as we did of six well-armed

men.

   After halting at midday at Jaen, we proceeded through
an open country, which presented anything but a thriv
ing and prosperous appearance ; the peasants were re
turning from their labour armed with guns, and they
had a savage and discontented look. Manuel, who did
not like the look of things, went up and spoke to one of
them. When he came back to me he said that we must

not go to Andujar that night, as the peasant had told
him that there was a strong band of brigands in the
neighbourhood, who had plundered the country right

Iand left, so that all the country people were obliged to go

armed and keep together. On hearing this news re
solved to stop for the night at a small village about two
miles in front of us, which Manuel said was decidedly
the best plan. We halted there a little before sunset,

Iand a wretched place it was, without even a venta

or public inn of any kind ; therefore hired one of the
most respectable of the cottages, which was more like
a stable or cowhouse than anything else, although it
had a kitchen, and one or two rooms abovestairs; the
ATTACKED BY R0B1SERS.          267

floors were of broken brick, there were no windows, and

only some planks on tressels for beds, with one or two

broken chairs. However, we were able to purchase ma

I Iterials for supper, and with cloaks, saddles, and bags
very soon made beds.  confess did not like the place
at all. As we might be attacked during the night,

we barricaded the house as well as we could, and

slept in our clothes, with our arms ready, and one man

keeping watch. Having done this we went to sleep, but

were awoke soon after midnight by loud cries and

screams, and a man began knocking violently at our

door asking admittance, crying out that the robbers were

come. We were up in an instant, prepared to give the

rascals a warm reception. We had scarcely made our

dispositions for defence when the robbers, to the number
of at least a dozen, made their appearance, well armed,

Iand demanded our money, horses, and baggage, on pain

of death. These determined not to yield, and defied

them. They, seeing that we were well armed and pre

pared for a stout resistance, hesitated for a minute ; and

I, not wishing to push matters to extremities, called to

Manuel to tell them, that as for yielding to their de

mands it was ridiculous, and if they did not go away at
once, I should be joined by some troops, and then every
rascal of them would be shot ; but if they chose to send

four or five of their men to escort me towards Andujar

I would pay them liberally. They then consulted, and
I Iagreed to the proposal, when told them that should

be ready to start at five in the morning. Accordingly,

at the appointed time, our friends, armed to the teeth
and well mounted --as rascally-looking a set as ever one
Isaw --made their appearance.
                               gave them a cigar and

Iglass of brandy each, which put them in good humour.
  could get on tolerably with Spanish, and entered into

conversation with them ; they were very agreeable, and

told some curious stories. Manuel came riding up to

me and told me to be upon my guard, for that one never
268 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Icould be sure of them for a moment ; however, thought

the best plan was to show no fear. At nine o'clock we

got to our destination, at a miserable village between

Andujar and Cordova, where we went to a wretched
Iventa; gave them a breakfast of such as we could
Iget, with cigars.
                    paid them handsomely, and so we

parted,  apparently the best  of  frlieefnt,dss.aidM, y"  guide and
worthy    friend Manuel, as                               You seem
                              we

to be very well pleased, but you don't know these
I Iratteros.
         hope that we have done with them, but

very much doubt it ; you have paid them too well not to

make them wish for further acquaintance with you, and

ds"hewpaelelnpdhearvhueappogsnotnitortidwbeeosfsohtwahelelmllmpefroeertpatthrheeedm.p"reasg"eanWitn,e, allwn,"dheIinfsawwidee,

happen to make their acquaintance again, depend upon

it we shall have the best of it." We jogged on all

the day through a wild but not uncultivated country ;
the land was rich --plenty of vines, olives, corn, maize,

and fruits, and everything, if properly cultivated, well

calculated to make the people comfortable and pros

Iperous ; yet everything around denoted misery, poverty,

and wretchedness. When talked to the people they

seemed reasonable enough ; they said that they toiled

from morning to night, but never got paid, or at least

so little that they could not live upon it ; and then, what

with the government taxes and the priests, it was im

Ipossible to live, so that there was no use in working.

certainly could not help sympathizing with them, for

they are really a fine generous people, and if they were

properly treated, there is not a finer race anywhere.

Unfortunately there is no middle class, and the nobility

are completely worn out, so that the unfortunate peasants

are ground down to the lowest misery ; yet with all

this there is a nobleness, independence, and enduring

Ifortitude about a Spanish peasant which causes you to

admire them the more you know of them. soon recog
CORDOVA-- SEVILLE.                                   2(10

I Inized their character, and appreciated it accordingly.

Whenever entered a venta or posada always made

it a point to treat the host and hostess with frankness and

courtesy as if we were equals, also to show myself ready

Ito oblige and to assist in any preparations that might

be going on. Thus secured the utmost attention, and

they readily produced their best at the cheapest rate, a
result which no amount of money would have obtained.

But to return to my story. When within seven

miles of Cordova, while passing near the small fortress

Iof Ercaloro, at about half-past five in the evening, i. e.

not long before sunset, met a priest, who told me

that it would be impossible to proceed, as he had

observed five mounted robbers prowling in the olive

woods between the fortress and Cordova, who would be

certain to fall upon us ; and that, moreover, they were
IiMnaanluleplroebxacblaiilmityedo, nl"yDtihde        of a much larger body.
                                             scouts  tell you that we should
                                                not

meet these rascals again?" I, however, replied that

I was determined to reach Cordova that night, and

asked the priest to introduce me to the governor of the

fort. To this he willingly consented, and the governor

having heard my story, was so obliging as to say that

he intended sending fifty men to Cordova next day, but

that they might accompany me now. We accordingly

started and soon came in sight of the five mounted

men, who sure enough proved to be our five old friends,

who very soon turned and galloped off as hard as they
could. We fired one or two shots at them; but as

night was coming on we thought it best not to pursue,

and continued on our way to Cordova, which we

reached at eight o'clock, very glad to get off so well.

From Cordova we reached Seville, where Mr.Wetherall,

the Consul, strongly advocated the introduction into

IEngland of Manzanilla, a wine then scarcely known.
   requested him to send me a hogshead, which was

universally approved of, and henceforth the taste for
270 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

pale dry sherry has entirely superseded that for the old

golden and brown, and there is no doubt that as a tonic

it is far superior.

The road across the Sierra Morena was kept clear by

the singular expedient of intrusting its defence to a
body of German colonists, who held considerable lands

and dues on condition of keeping the roads free from
brigands. This plan answered admirably ; in a very

short time the brigands were exterminated, and after

that, though no patrols were ever seen, yet if any

fresh bands ventured to appear, the Germans were

instantly under arms and never relaxed their pursuit
until the brigands were either destroyed or driven out

of the country.

We proceeded by diligence from Seville to Madrid ;

and when we reached Ocana, after having travelled three

days and nights, our majoral or conductor had compas

sion on us, and said we should halt for the night ; that

is,  we arrived about nine o'clock and he said we must be

off again at five in the morning this, however, was
                           ;

                            if
                                     ;
                                    I
                                                                   a
great release, and we all thanked him but believe we

had no great reason for being so very grateful for his

kindness, as was rumoured that we had proceeded
            it it
we might have been attacked by the Carlists. However,

be that as         may, we got a comfortable bed, to my

great surprise. The cholera had been flying about the
                           ;

                             it
                                         it,

                                                    a

                                            I
neighbourhood, and felt slight attack of which got
                     I  a

rid of by   aa  few drops of sal volatile and camphorated
spirits in
                wineglass of cold water. At five in the

morning we started from Ocana, after getting biscuit,
a cup of chocolate, and glass of cold water, which one
finds almost everywhere in Spain indeed, rough as the

travelling was in those days --and could not be worse
--we always got most excellent bread, eggs, and some

times milk and wine, although the latter was generally

new, and as thick as porridge and almost undrinkable
            1
                                                                                                                         ;
still with read, eggs, and milk one could always get on.
          MADRID.        271

When I arrived at Madrid, the city was in the

greatest state of excitement ; the Carlists were making

war in the most vigorous and successful manner, headed

by the celebrated Zumalacarragui ; and it being dan

Igerous to talk politics, particularly avoided them, and
Iwent about seeing everything could as a stranger.
I also called upon our minister, Sir George Villiers,
whom I had known in England, and was most kindly

received by him. I here met a Colonel Downie, who

had served under Wellington and afterwards settled in

Spain. He spoke Spanish perfectly, and was much
respected by the natives, which was saying a good deal

for him ; for the Spaniards are a most peculiar people,

and especially the upper classes, extremely reserved and

Iexclusive towards strangers. Personally, however,
Ihave no reason to complain, for they were very civil to

me. was introduced by Downie and other friends,
and had an opportunity of visiting some of the first

families of the place, amongst others the Veraguas, the

descendants of Columbus, of Cortez, Viluma, Frias, and
Iothers.
          went to their tertulias or conversaziones,

Iwhich were the only kind of society to be had when

  was there ; in fact, parties were so divided on account

of the civil war that many of the great houses were
shut up. At the tertulia there was nothing but con
versation, so that with the exception of the lights there

was no expense of entertainment. As you were leaving

the house, in the hall the servant presented you with a

glass of cold water, with a biscuit of flour and sugar,

which, when taken with the water, was not unpalatable.

At one of these tertulias the servant, in the midst of the

conversation, brought to the lady of the house her

supper, which she set to work on, without making

the least remark ; in fact, it was usual, and no person

thought anything of it.

  IHaving now viewed everything worth seeing in the

city, determined to see something of the environs, and
272 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

accordingly asked Downie to accompany me to Toledo ;
Iand as politics were very uncertain, thought it better
Ito be doubly armed with passports.
                                     therefore got
our minister, Sir G. Villiers, to verify mine, and also
the minister of police, a very gentlemanly man, the
Marquis of Viluma, who was unusually civil, and gave
me a capital dinner and a special passport for Toledo.

The next morning at daybreak we started, with four

horses, and were just leaving the town when we were

Istopped by a messenger running after us, who proved

to be the servant of a lady whom had met the day
before at the Marquis de Viluma's, and who was a niece

of the Archbishop of Toledo. She had sent her servant

with a letter of introduction for us to her uncle the

Archbishop, for which we were thankful, as it is rather

difficult to obtain permission to see all the different

objects, such as the treasury. Accordingly we started off
afresh over a very wild country, with a very indifferent

road, or rather none, and reached Toledo about noon.

We immediately went to the cathedral, which is a very

rich and imposing Gothic edifice, and although we did

not see the archbishop, who was not there, yet the

dean most kindly showed us everything, particularly

the treasury, which was replete with a most gorgeous
collection of vestments, mitres adorned with precious

stones, silver croziers, gold and silver chalices, cups

and basins and priestly utensils without number. We

then went and paid our respects to civil and military

governors, and got an order to see the Royal Sword

Manufactory, which formerly was celebrated throughout

Europe for its excellent blades, which were said to be
equal to those of Damascus, but had for some time past

Ibeen rapidly on the decline; there were some two or
three hundred men employed where     was, but they

were making only ordinary blades for the army.

Having seen everything, and perambulated this curious

old city, which was in anything but a thriving state,
   TOLEDO.

we returned to the fonda or hotel, miserable as it was,

to our dinner, previous to starting for Aranjuez.
We had just done dinner when an officer of police

I Imade his appearance, and said very politely that the
civil governor wished to see me.  said that had

Ialready seen him, and paid my respects, and shown

my passport ; asked if anything was wrong with it.

IHe said no, then went away, and again returned, saying
the civil governor must see me.   again asked if the
Ipassport was right. He said perfectly. Then I said that

   thought the governor's conduct was extraordinary,
Iand declined going. Two more police officers then

Icame, and said that the gates of the city were closed to

me, and that should not leave without first going
to the civil governor. My friend Downie then got

alarmed, and said that he would go with the officers,

see the civil governor and explain matters. He accord

ingly went, and asked the civil governor what he meant.

The governor replied that he was surrounded by Car-

lists, and he was obliged to be constantly on his guard,

for fear of an insurrection ; but he had been informed

Ithat had brought a private letter to the archbishop,

who was the greatest Carlist in the place, and he must

Iknow what that letter contained. Fortunately it was

open, and both Downie and had read it before deliver

ing and was nothing more than a request that we
it,
          it

                            it
might be shown everything in the cathedral. With this

explanation the governor was perfectly satisfied, and

dispensed with my personal attendance, which was
                                                 TI
glad of, and determined to carry no more introductory

letters, for at that time was most dangerous to both

parties. Off we started, but were stopped at the

city gates, at which we were both much annoyed, and
being determined that we would stand this annoyance

no longer, were just going to force our way through,

when messenger from the governor told them to let
a

us go, and off we galloped as hard as possible.
274 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

  IBefore leaving Madrid visited some of the convents,

though with great difficulty, for a short time before my
arrival the mob, in a fit of revolutionary excitement,
had attacked several of them, and murdered many of
the unfortunate inmates, whilst the rest were obliged to

Ifly for their lives. When applied for admission it was
Irefused, until learning that was an Englishman, they

opened the outer gates, which had been well secured,

Iand admitted me, and a melancholy spectacle beheld.
IVery few of the monks remained, and those that saw

had their heads and arms bandaged up on account of the

wounds they had received. A great deal of property

had been destroyed, and a still greater quantity had been
stolen ; in fact everything had a most wretched and
desolate appearance. Shortly afterwards the whole of
the convents and religious establishments for monks and
nuns were shut up by order of the government, and all
the property was seized for the benefit (?) of the nation.

    Leaving Madrid with several others, we proceeded to
France via Saragossa and Barcelona, as the direct route

through Bayonne was of course quite impracticable.

Barcelona was then, and is now, taking it altogether,
the finest and most thriving town in the peninsula,
and may be called the Manchester of Spain. It is

situated on the shore of the Mediterranean, in a rich

fertile plain, backed by a lofty range of mountains
about three or four miles distant. The central streets

 are very narrow, but the Marina and artificial harbour,
 with the fine spacious quays by which they are sur
 rounded, have a noble effect, although the mole, a fine
 work as it undoubtedly has been badly designed with
 respect to the currents and the great quantity of alluvial
 matter held in suspension by the waters, and carried
 along the shore from the deltas and mouths of the

 Hobugal and Ebro. The consequence that the space
 covered the mole constantly filling up, and requires
 incessant dredging at great expense notwithstanding
by
                   is

                          is,

                                                           ;

                                                    is,
              CONVENT OP MONTE SERKATA.                              275

which, the trade is so great that the harbour is always
more or less full of shipping, and besides its manufac
tures of cotton and silk, it exports largely wine, oil,

bark, fruits, and timber.

  I made an excursion with my servant to the celebrated

convent of Monte Serrata, situated upon the mountain
of that name, about 30 miles to the west of Barcelona ;

starting early in the morning, and stopping at the

Ibridge of Mastoul across the Hobugal, about 15

miles from Barcelona. Here enjoyed, from below

I Ithe bridge, one of the most interesting and beautiful

views, think, that ever beheld. Facing me was the
bridge, consisting of two Gothic arches ; the south one

Iwas the largest ever saw, being about 140 feet span.

On the north side of the bridge was a Roman arch,

in tolerable preservation, except the cornice ; and on the
south side of the bridge were the remains of a Moorish

Ifort. Thus had before me, at one coup d'ceil, the

ruined works of three great nations; in the distance

was the convent of Montserrat, perched upon the

mountain side, with its numerous pinnacles rising

above  I it,  and these overtopped by the numerous lofty

peaks of the Pyrenees behind. Whilst examining the

bridge, perceived on sudden large body of troops,
                 a

                   I
                                   a
with several mounted officers, rapidly approaching
                                                                     t
upon inquiring the cause, was told by an officer thatI
   had better get out of the way as soon as possible,                      2

as there were great many Carlists about, and they                                    ;
              a                                                                                   ;

expected to be attacked every minute, as they had to

defend the pass to prevent the Carlists from getting to

Barcelona.    therefore went off at once to the convent.
I

                 a

            I

                                                                  a
   left the carriage at the bottom of the mountain, at a

small inn, and got a man to carry up our things and

having letter to the worthy superior, was most hos

pitably received. They gave us comfortable dinner.
We then set out to examine the numerous hermitages
270 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENN1E.

tain, which resembled the teeth of a saw, from which

the hill takes its name. These hermitages consisted

of a small hut, just large enough for the hermit's bed,

and table, and chair ; here they remained winter and

summer, and only occasionally descended to the convent.

All the hermitages were empty, the hermits had fled,

and there were scarcely a dozen monks in the convent.

IWhilst climbing about the mountain observed several
ICarlist scouts, well armed, lurking about, and saw

others at a distance -- no doubt they were part of the

Iattacking force expected at Barcelona ; they, however,

did not molest me, and was too happy to leave them

alone. The view from the mountain all round is very

fine ; all the leading valleys are filled with manufacturing
towns and villages, amongst the principal of which was
Manresa, in the valley immediately below us. We

got back to the convent soon after dark, where the

prior had ordered us a good supper, and afterwards in

vited me to his apartments, where he gave an excellent

Iconcert, which was very well executed by the choristers
and monks attached to the convent.  soon found out

that the prior and all around him were most devoted

partisans of Don Carlos, and wished the Christinos and

all revolutionists to perdition, to which place they said

Ithey would be most assuredly consigned. Knowing that
   was an Englishman, and being recommended to him,

he felt himself perfectly at home with me, and seemed

to be tolerably well informed about English politics : he

understood perfectly well the difference between Whigs,

Tories, and Radicals, and had not a doubt but that the

good sense and talent of the Tories would soon upset the
Whigs and Radicals; and so far he proved right; but

he went on to say that they would assist the Spanish

Carlists, and send all the Christinos and their wicked

associates to the devil, where they ought to go ; for the

Catholic religion could never thrive and Spain never

could prosper so long as the Christinos were triumphant.
CONVENT OF MONTE SERRATA.      277

IBy this time could get on tolerably well with Spanish.

We conversed on various topics, and passed the evening

very agreeably, as the prior was a very superior person,

and really, considering that he was a Spanish priest, he

was an enlightened man, and by no means bigoted.
He said that no nation could prosper without religion ;

and according to his belief he considered that the

Roman Catholic was the true faith ; at the same time

he did not mean to say that a person professing any
other religion could not be saved, but that God in His

great mercy would pardon their ignorance. We bade

the prior good-night, thanking him much for his kind

ness, and retired to our dormitory, which was very cold

Iand solitary, near the chapel : we had plenty of cloaks,

which were indispensable ; and told my man to make a

Istiff glass of hot punch, not only for myself, but also for

the worthy monks who attended us, and took care that

they should be offered supper ; but although they had
a glass of punch and a cigar, they would take no more.

IThe night was very cold, the moon shone bright, and
the stillness was remarkable.  awoke long before light,

Iand heard the monks saying their matins; feeling it

was cold, got more covering, and again fell asleep.

Awaking soon after eight o'clock, we got up, and had

I Ichocolate ; then, making a handsome present to the poor-

box, retraced my steps downwards, and must say that

I never passed a more agreeable day. The scenery was

magnificent ; that alone was sufficient to recompense any

one for the journey ; and in addition to this there was

the visit to this great convent, at one time one of the

most powerful in Spain, but now in its decadence, and

its once powerful inmates degraded so far as to hope

for deliverance from the formerly hated and persecuted

heretics of England ! It was a most singular sight ; and

it is still more extraordinary, that after a lapse of thirty-

four years, these very Christinos, with the queen at

their head, should now be persecuting all liberal Catho
278 AUTOBIOGRAI>HY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

lies, and again threatening the establishment of the

IInquisition.          traversed France, passing
   Leaving Barcelona,

through Toulouse, Bordeaux, and Paris, and reached

ILondon in the beginning of 1834.

   Although not strictly in chronological order, will

here mention one or two incidents which occurred to

me shortly before, and which may be of interest. In

the early part of 1831 the cholera visited England for

the first time. Everybody was alarmed at its approach :

it was a mysterious disease, nobody seemed to know
much about it. They knew that it came from India,

and that it was most fatal and capricious, sometimes at

tacking those on the mountains, and sometimes those

on the plains ; sometimes, in passing through towns and

villages, carrying off in its strange and deadly course
all those on one side of a street, leaving the other side

untouched. It was making its way regularly from the

East to the West, deviating rather northwards in its
course, and hence it approached Europe by Russia,
thence to the north of Germany. Its regular and

gradual approach struck everyone with awe: we saw

the enemy coming, but how to avoid or how to attack

him nobody knew. The medical profession were com
pletely at fault, all suggesting different remedies, each

proposing what he considered his own specific, yet

doubtful of the result. At last the dreaded mystery

leaped across the German Ocean, and made its appear
ance in Sunderland, where it spread alarm and dismay

far and wide. It then turned southward, and made its

appearance in London, in the month of March, and
numbers left the city, flying in all directions. The

French, dreading its invasion, closed their ports, and
placed England in quarantine, but in vain attempted

to shut out the terrible malady, for, in two or three

months apparently glutted with death, it jumped over

the Channel into France, and became more virulent
                   CHOLERA.                        279

than ever. The French physicians, who had visited
England during its prevalence, and thought they had
acquired good knowledge of the disease and its treat

ment, were, if anything, more at fault than our own

medical men; for the disease held them as it were
in                 in Paris seven thousand
in  derision, and  was attacked with it one  fell victims
                                             morning in
    one day. I

June, about four o'clock, with a sudden shock, and
Ifelt as if death had clutched me in his jaws.
                                                   had
Ibeen some time previously thinking what should do
in the event of an attack, and consulted my medical
Iadvisers, but could elicit nothing satisfactory.
                                                   then

made up my mind that, as the attacks of the disease

were sudden and violent, the remedy must be something

of the kind ; and the most likely remedy, if any,

appeared to me some strong stimulant, such as camphor,
sal volatile, and opium, which, having previously been

Isubject to diarrhoea, had frequently tried with effect.

I therefore always kept a mixture of this kind ready.
IFeeling the attack, jumped out of bed and staggered

to the table, took a strong dose, rang the bell violently,

sent for my doctor directly, and went back to bed,
Iand for an hour suffered terribly.
                                             then became

Icalmer, but excessively exhausted, and lay almost

motionless. The doctor came about seven, when was

I Imuch better : he asked me what had taken, and told
I Ihim : he then said, " do not know that should have

prescribed exactly what you have taken, but the prin

ciple is correct," and he gave me something of the

Isame kind, but in a milder form. In a couple of days
Iwas quite well, and have ever since carried camphor,

sal volatile, and opium with me; and subsequently,

Iwhen travelling in Spain, Portugal, and Sweden during
the prevalence of cholera,   frequently took these

remedies myself, and administered them with success

to others.

  The same year I took a trip to Austria and the south
280 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

of Germany, and attended the meetings of the scientific

Isociety, the Natur Geforsches, then being held at

Vienna. was well received, and made a member of the

Isociety; and there made acquaintance with some of the

most distinguished professors of Germany, and a most
sociable set of gentlemen they were. The assemblage

consisted of about three hundred ; we dined every day

together, and received much gratification and instruc
I Ition.
attended the sections regularly, and there

saw the Austrian archdukes, distinguished for their

scientific acquirements, who took part, and no mean
one, in the discussions, without the least pretension,

precisely upon the same footing as the other members ;
foremost amongst the rest was the celebrated Prince
Metternich, then in the height of his power and conse
quence, as Prime Minister of Austria. He certainly was
a very remarkable man ; of the middle size, extremely

good-looking, with an aquiline nose, sharp, intelligent

eyes, a firmly compressed lip, a thoroughly gentleman
like manner, a dignified appearance, complete self-

command, and altogether impressing you with the idea

that he was the great grandee and sovereign minister
of the ancient and then all-powerful empire of Austria.

Notwithstanding his high position, he attended sections
in the most unassuming manner, like the most insigni
ficant member present. He attended the different sec

tions daily, and always sat amongst the crowd, not on

the bench near the president, and took his share in

the discussions as if he was a simple citizen, and any

point that he happened to take up he well maintained.

IHaving heard so much of the all-powerful Prince

Metternich, was rather astonished to see him act so

Iamiable and distinguished a part in such a society.

was introduced to him, and was very kindly received.
He opened his palace, and he and his distinguished and
handsome consort, the Princess, received the whole of

the members and their ladies with the greatest cordiality.
BANQUET AT LUXEMBOURG.                                261

I also was invited amongst the rest, and remarked that,

although princes of the imperial family and the most
Idistinguished nobles were present,
                                     did not observe
Imany of their ladies ; and was told by a friend, that as
the ladies of the German professors could not afford to

dress in the splendid style of the great Austrian ladies,

these latter were excluded for fear of their eclipsing

in dress the German professors' wives. The Emperor

Francis gave the Association a most magnificent enter
tainment at one of his palaces, Laxembourg, about 12

miles from Vienna. His Imperial Majesty sent sixty-five
royal carriages, with outriders in uniform, to conduct the

association to Laxembourg ; and when we arrived there,

we found sixty-five other imperial carriages, with ser

vants in the imperial livery, to take us to the palace,

and drive us about the park and environs to show us

everything worth seeing. At three o'clock dinner was

announced in the palace, and a most imperial dinner it
was. Several of the archdukes, and Prince and Princess

Metternich were there, with all the members and their

ladies ; and before sitting down to dinner the Prince said

that His Imperial Majesty the Emperor Francis intended

to have been present to receive the Association, but
unfortunately His Majesty was very unwell, and was

unable to attend ; he therefore requested the Prince to

apologise to them for his absence ; His Majesty hoped

that we would excuse his absence, and make ourselves as

comfortable as if we were at home, which we certainly
did, and a splendid affair it was. A magnificent band

played during dinner, Tokay champagne flowed in

abundance, and at five o'clock we started on our return

to Vienna, conveyed in the same royal carriages and
accompanied by the same escort of imperial servants

that brought us to Laxembourg in the morning; in

fact, it was impossible that anything could have been

better done, or that royalty could have shown more

respect or deference to science than was done to us.
282 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

On the following Sunday, the municipality of Baden,

a place some miles from Vienna, invited us to another

banquet, and sent comfortable carriages to take us

there and back. The burgomaster and councillors re

ceived us on our arrival, and gave us a most excellent

entertainment, accompanied by the greatest cordiality
and kindness. When we arrived it wanted about two

Ihours to dinner; and a friend of mine, high in office,

asked me if should like to be introduced to the cele

brated Archduke Charles, the Commander-in-Chief of

the Austrian armies, and who was the first general
who defeated the great Emperor Buonaparte, viz. at

IAspern. The proposition was quite unexpected, and
   eagerly accepted it. We accordingly went to the
Archduke's palace, where, on account of ill-health,
His Imperial Highness was living very quietly,

taking the baths. Upon arriving, we were shown
into an ante-room furnished in the most simple manner.
After waiting a few minutes, a chamberlain made his

appearance, and ushered us into the Archduke's pre
                                                                     His Im
sence,  when we   --wearemofostrmsaimllyplei,ntruondauffceectdedt,o  dignified
        Highness
perial
gentleman, characterized strongly by the features of

the imperial family, at the same time possessing all the
dignity and command of a great soldier. He received

us with great courtesy, and after bidding us be seated,
entered into conversation with us in the most easy and
familiar manner. He addressed me very kindly in

IFrench, asked after the Duke of Wellington in par

ticular (whom fortunately had the honour of know
ing), and expressed in the highest terms his admira

tion of him as a soldier and statesman, and said that

England owed much to him. He then entered into
a general conversation about England, her great im

portance and power, saying that she was the saviour of
Europe, and expressed an ardent wish that she might
VIENNA.  285

long retain her present influence. He said that he
should have been most happy to have dined with the

municipality, to meet us there, but unfortunately his
health would not permit. After an excellent dinner
the Association returned in the evening to Vienna,
much gratified with their entertainment.
284 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

CHAPTEE VI.

ShipreMoaaCuskartisnengra--nl--fRRroaSamicillwrwePawaoyyrstSs--tmreoaoLumcontndhSdhoLtinopo,nsdLC--oohnnaHdt--oahnratmRl--ea,piMloawanoadcl hyiDnaMnoedvrayenrCiaoaRnq--duaeilEStwnoHaguyiatnh.re

Railways had by this time made rapid progress, and
had been completely established as the future means of

conveyance for goods and passengers. The Manchester

and Liverpool and the Stockton and Darlington had

been completed with the most successful results. The
Grand Junction between Liverpool and Birmingham,

the London and Birmingham, and Great Western, were

making rapid progress towards completion, and numerous

other lines were either projected or about being carried
into effect. Still the canals were not altogether sup
planted; and it was proposed to make a ship canal from
London to Portsmouth, by means of which the dan

gerous, tedious, and expensive navigation between

those places would be avoided. The late Mr. Horace
Twiss, M.P. for Wootton-Bassett, and afterwards Under

Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, took the greatest

interest in this undertaking ; and from calculations

which he had carefully made from official returns, he

stated that a clear revenue of 1,000,000/. per annum

might be derived from it. The first  Lord   Ashburton,
then Alexander Baring, with whom            a long con
                                     I had
versation on the subject, said that, if practicable at
reasonable cost, it would be a valuable national work.

During the height of the great revolutionary war

with France, long before the public had been accus

tomed to the vast sums which have been raised and

expended upon great works in modern times, a canal
SHIP CANAL FROM PORTSMOUTH TO LONDON.                                         285

between London and Portsmouth had been considered

as a very desirable and profitable work. My father
made a plan for it in 1807, and the then Earl of
Egremont offered to subscribe largely to it: a money
crisis however occurred, and it was abandoned for the

time. A canal, however, upon a much smaller scale

was afterwards made by Mr. Josias Jessop, between the
Wey and Arun, and from thence through Chichester and

Longston harbours to Portsmouth. It was upon too small

and imperfect a scale, and therefore did not answer.

  A ship canal, however, capable of transporting a

74-gun ship and Indiamen of the largest class, was

afterwards contemplated. A very influential committee

requested me to investigate the subject thoroughly;

firstly, as to its practicability ; secondly, what was the

Ibest time for such a canal ; and thirdly, what would
be the cost.  accordingly, with the assistance of the

late Mr. Francis Giles, who took the levels and surveys,

perxapcltoicraebdlean--d theexamfirisntedbythtehethrMeeerslitnheasm,whtihceh  were most
                                                                              second by

the Dorking, and the third by the G-uildford valley.

The last was decidedly the best line, having the least

height, the easiest route, and the best supply of water

for the lockage. It commenced at the Thames, and con

tinued up the valley of the Wey to Guildford, where
it crossed the summit, descended into the vale of the

Arun, which it crossed by an aqueduct, and thence

along the base of the hills to Portsmouth Harbour.

   The canal was to have been 100 yards wide at the top,

and 24 feet deep. At the summit there were to have

been ample reservoirs, and capacious basins or docks

at each end. The voyage  from London to Portsmouth
would have been made in
                         two days --that is to say, by
common haulage --but steam tugs would have reduced

it to twenty-four hours. The estimate was 7,000,000/.,

which was considered so large at the time, that all idea

of prosecuting the undertaking further was at once
286 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

abandoned. The world had not then been accustomed

to the enormous sums since spent upon railways, and
then they would never have believed that 16,000,000/.
would be spent upon the London, Chatham, and Dover

Railway, only the same length as the proposed canal,
or that a similar amount would be spent in the same
county upon the South-Eastern Railway.

   That the canal is perfectly practicable there can be
no doubt, and it would have been of great public ad
vantage ; but whether, after all, it would have yielded a

Ireasonable profit for the capital expended, is a question

which will not undertake to determine.
   One part of my father's business was the making of

machinery, of which he was very fond, being a first-rate
theoretical and practical mechanic ; but the machinery
department formed only a very small part of his extensive
business, although he constructed several important
works, such as the Albion Flour Mills near Blackfriars

Bridge, afterwards destroyed by fire, and where he subse
quently had his own works, which still exist. This is ad
mitted to have been one of the best pieces of that class of
engineering ever constructed, either before or since, and
performed a quantity of work in proportion to the power
employed, such as has never been surpassed. He also
designed and constructed the rolling mills in the Royal
Mint, which have been in full work for more than half
a century, and are still in as efficient a state as ever.
The diving bell may almost be said to have been an
invention of his, for he effected such great improve
ments in it that he was enabled to apply it to building
under water at Ramsgate Harbour for the first time in

1813. It was worked from a scaffold above water, to

which were attached movable trucks with windlasses,

working upon a rack-and-pinion railway, so that the
diving bell and the apparatus for raising and lowering
the bell, together with the stones, could be worked, and
the building carried on with the same certainty and
           MACHINERY AND ENGINES.                                                      287

nearly the same expedition as above water. He also

erected a similar apparatus applied for raising heavy
blocks of mahogany at the West India Docks : this is the

Gantry crane, which has been since very generally

employed in almost all building operations. My object
in mentioning the subject here is merely to say that

when my father died he left this machinery depart

Iment to my brother George and myself, though

believe that if he had lived a few years longer he
would have given it up altogether. The site of this

manufactory was formerly one of the most fashionable
suburbs of the metropolis, and here the celebrated Nell

G-wynne had her country house. My brother and self

continued the business, rebuilt the place entirely, with

considerable improvements, and did a large amount

of business here. We constructed the rolling mills for

the Calcutta and Bombay mints ; the great flour mills

and baking machines of Deptford, Portsmouth, and

Cremill    Proaiinlwt ayyasr,dsam; nounmgsetrouotshelroscomthoetiv'eSaetneglliintees'  for
different                                                                              for

the Brighton Railway, which was one of the first that

attained the speed of 60 miles an hour upon the narrow
gauge. We made the steam engines and machinery for
Her Majesty's ship ' Bulldog,' the yacht ' Dwarf,' and
others; also for the famous Russian steamer ' Wladimir,'

which did so much mischief at Sebastopol; two yachts for

the Emperor of Russia, and other vessels for the Russian

navy, together with the whole of the iron gates for the

dockyard at Sebastopol, two pair of which were brought

back as trophies by the British and French armies. We

built four iron steam vessels and their machinery for the

Russian Government, for the Caspian Sea, which were

the first that floated on its waters; they were first built

in London, then taken to pieces, sent to St. Petersburg,

and thence down the Volga to the Caspian ; men were

sent with them by us, who put them together there, and

launched them successfully. We made and erected the
288 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RKNNIE.

small-arms manufactory at Constantinople, for making

five hundred muskets per week. We constructed
the engines and machinery for the ' Archimedes '

screw-vessel, which was the first screw used in this

country ; and again, the iron vessel, engines, and screw
for the ' Dwarf,' which was the first screw-vessel ever

introduced into the British Navy, in the year 1839, for
Iwhich take the credit myself; for after we had suc
Iceeded so well with the ' Archimedes,'
                                             waited upon
Sir George Cockburn, then Senior Naval Lord of the

Admiralty, and proposed to him to make a small iron

vessel worked by a screw. I engaged that the vessel

should make the speed of ten knots an hour by the

measured mile ; and that if after she was completed and

tried she did not come up to the required conditions, of

Iwhich their own officers were to be sole judges, would

take back the vessel and machinery, without any compen

sation ; but if they were satisfied, they themselves were

Ito fix the price to be paid for the vessel and machinery.

Sir George said the offer was so fair, that if would put
it in writing in the form of an official tender, he would

Irecommend the Admiralty to accept it ; this accord

ingly did. The vessel, engines, and screw were com
pleted to the satisfaction of the Admiralty officers, the

price settled by them was at once paid, and so the
' Dwarf ' was the first screw-vessel introduced into the

British Navy. It was certainly no small gratification

Ito myself to have introduced the first vessel propelled

by the screw into the Royal Navy, as felt convinced
that it was the only proper method of propelling
vessels of war : it was the more gratifying, because my
father was the first who, in 1819, introduced the paddle-

wheel    system    into the Navy ; and thus  is  our    family
have   had the   honour--and a great one it              intro
                                                 -- of

ducing into the Navy the two greatest improvements ot
modern times. My father, who was always consulted

by the Admiralty, proposed machinery in every depart
GOVERNMENT WORKSHOPS.  289

ment where it could be applied with any advantage ;
such as railways ; the Gantry crane, and others, worked
by machinery ; heating anchors in furnaces, by means
of which only could they be properly made ; employ
ing convicts to do the labour, with a moderate gratuity
to stimulate their exertions, and thus reduce the expense
of their keep; and employing private establishments
wherever they could do the work cheaper than in the
dockyards. The state must and ought to have such
establishments as should be able to do their own work

when occasion requires ; but in a country like England,
where the arts and manufactures are carried to the

highest possible extent by individual competition, and
where the field of exertion is so vast and the prizes of

success are so great, no government establishment can

compete with them. It cannot hold out sufficient in

ducement for exertion, and hence we find that no great

invention has ever emanated from a public establish

ment. Certain officers the government must have, and
these must be at fixed salaries, for which they have to
do a certain quantity of work, and for this the hours are
fixed ; they have no inducement to go beyond this. Yet
this perhaps is the wisest course for a government like
ours ; it can always command the talent of the day,
and it is far more economical for a government to pay

the market price, whatever it may be, than to take
persons, however well qualified, wholly into its em
ployment; the moment this is done the inducement to
extra exertion ceases, and the government must go

again to the market for the next best talent, and so on.
Hence it is my opinion that a government should have
the fewest possible establishments it can get on with, so
as not to leave itself wholly dependent upon private
firms ; and that it should go liberally to the public,
specifying in general terms what is required, then it will
obtain the best workmen in the wisest manner, without

being taxed by extra pensions or any other drawback ;

                                                                                 u
           AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

by this means a government would command all private
establishments, and make the most of its own.

  IIn 1832 was requested by the authorities of the
Isle of Man to examine the whole of the coast of the
IIsland, and to give my opinion as to the best plan for
improving the harbours.  accordingly sent over my

assistant, Mr. Coombe; and having carefully surveyed

Douglas, Derby Haven, Castleton, Peel, Ramsey, and
Laxey, made complete hydrographical surveys of the
whole, and detailed plans for the best way of improving

them. At Douglas I proposed to make an extensive
low-water asylum harbour, and also at Derby Haven,

which were the most important places, and possessed
the greatest capability of making good refuge harbours
at the most economical rates for the numerous vessels
trading between Ireland and England, and also for
foreign vessels bound for Liverpool. The other ports
susceptible of improvement were chiefly local, and
                 a moderate sum was proposed to be
therefore  only
expended   upon  them. A great harbour might, indeed,
have been made near the Calf of Man ; but this would
have involved an expense which the revenues of the
Island had no means of paying, though a harbour
there would have been of importance to the vast

number of vessels of all classes trading between Liver
pool and America ; and therefore, if anything was to be

done there, Liverpool ought to have contributed largely
towards it. Liverpool, however, thought differently.
They had no idea of encouraging their vessels to stop
so near home. So that all idea of making a refuge
harbour near the Calf of Man was abandoned. Neither
could the Islanders obtain foreign aid for Douglas, or
Castleton, or Derby Haven. They were therefore left

to their own resources, and were obliged to confine
Itheir operations to making a small addition to Douglas
Pier, which     Mders. igJanmedesfoBrrothwenm--, aandmowsthicehxcwelalesnctaprrraiecd
into effect by
                    COQUET HARBOUR.                   1201

tical engineer-- who had been employed many 3'ears by

my father at   Holyhead Harbour and   elsewhere.      for
   About the                          to make a plan
               same time I was asked

the improvement of the ancient port of Hartlepool (I
think one of the oldest in England), for shipping coal

from the coal-fields of South Durham, which were then
Ibeing developed to an extraordinary extent.
                                              made a

plan, which was afterwards carried into effect under
                    late Mr.
my direction,  the            James Brown, above men
tioned, being  the  resident
                              engineer. When I visited

Ithe place, it was the most secluded, primitive fishing

village ever saw. It has now become one of the most
thriving and populous towns of Durham.
At this time I was also requested by a society of
gentlemen --
Mills, Smith,  amongst    whom     were Messrs. Ladbrooke,
                Webb,             examine the mouth of the
                        &c. --to

Coquet, near Warkworth, in order to make a harbour
there for the shipping of coal from some collieries
which were about to be opened in that district. This
harbour, which consisted of a north pier and south pier,

was made under my direction ; Mr. George Remington

being the resident engineer. It was merely intended

as a tidal harbour, with floating docks attached to it ;
which latter, for want of funds, were never made. By

extending the northern pier farther seaward, they could

easily obtain 12 feet or more at low water; and the

Coquet Island outside forms an excellent and safe road

stead for vessels drawing 20 feet at low water--an ad

vantage that no other port on the east coast possesses.
There is plenty of coal in the vicinity, that has never
been developed for want of capital ; but no doubt the
day will come when this port will be of considerable

consequence. Whilst superintending these works, the
late Earl Grey, then Prime Minister, who lived at

IHowick, about nine miles to the north of the Coquet,
invited me to spend a day there.      accordingly went
over, and was most kindly received. I there met his

                                        u2
292 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

son, the present Earl, and the present Sir George Grey,

and passed my time very agreeably and instructively.
The late Earl, when Commissioner of Portsmouth Dock

yard, knew my father well, and had great respect for

his talents.

  IWhilst employed in constructing the piers of Sunder

land Harbour, made acquaintance with Mr. Lambton,
afterwards the Earl of Durham, who married one of

Earl Grey's daughters. He was one of the commis
sioners of the harbour, and a great coalowner. He

was a slight-made person, of the middle size, with an

olive complexion, dark, piercing eyes, and a profusion
of jet-black hair. He possessed considerable talent,

great firmness, and a stern, haughty, proud bearing,
with great impetuosity of temper. Being heir to a
large fortune, he was spoiled in his youth, although

not without kindly, generous, and noble feelings, and
where he took a liking, was a firm friend. He was

always very kind and friendly to me, and took ait,
leading part in promoting the success of Sunderland
Harbour. His violent temper, and inability to controla

    was the cause of his failure as public man. When
Governor-General of Canada he, contrary to all rules of
order and subordination, threw up his command in
pet on account of some trifling provocation, and re
turned to England without authority. The obloquy
                        a
                                                                a

which this foolish and imprudent step entailed upon

him for ever after rendered him unfit to take leading
                                     it
                                         is

                                                      a
part in public affairs, for which otherwise he was well

calculated, and he died soon after,  believed of a

broken heart.

Railways having been now fairly established, and

having to considerable extent superseded roads and

canals, the Brighton Railway scheme was started again.
The history of this work have already described.

During the years 1837-1838 occupied considerable
portion of my time, and although was then very ill,
                        it I
                               I

                                                   a
                   BLACKWALL RAILWAY.                         293

and totally unfit for business, I was obliged to struggle
       I        and carried at last. At times was so
through                                    I it     I
           it,                                         II
nervous and unwell that scarcely knew what was
about. felt perfectly stupid, and thought that my life     I
must end in a lunatic asylum and many, even of my
                                                 ;

friends, considered that my career was over. When

cross-examined before parliamentary committees, which

examinations       was obliged to undergo at this time,
I

                I
after two or three hours my head got so confused that

   could see nothing distinctly --everything appeared

either double or upside down. However, got through

not only the Brighton, but also the Blackwall, Railway

Bills. Apropos of the Blackwall Railway, long had

an idea that Blackwall, including the East and West

India, the Regent's Canal, and the London Docks,

should be connected with London by a railway, and

that this line should form the grand trunk and ter

minus for all the railways which were to connect the

eastern counties of Essex, Suffolk, Norfolk, and Cam

bridge with London. A Bill for making the Eastern

Counties Railway through Essex and Suffolk had then

passed, having their terminus in Shoreditch, which            ;
was quite out of the way, and left out all the docks

whereas the line which proposed would not only have
       is

                     aI
connected them with London at Fenchurch Street,

which within half mile of the Royal Exchange, but

would have brought the great traffic of the eastern

counties there also. Mr. Stephenson, seeing the im

portance of my Blackwall line, started another in

opposition, which was defeated in Parliament, and my

line was carried but my party was not strong enough
         it
                          ;
                                        ;
to carry into effect Mr. Stephenson's was, therefore

they took up my line, and he was appointed the chief
engineer. He wholly ignored my principle of making

the Blackwall line the main trunk for the eastern

counties' traffic, but declared that the Blackwall line

should be considered distinct; and as he thought that
294 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

so short a line was not adapted for locomotives, he
said that it would be far better to work it by means

Iof ropes attached to powerful engines fixed at each end
of the line.  foresaw that this plan would not succeed,

and told my friends so ; however, it was of no use, the

rope system was adopted, until it was found that the
constant breaking of the ropes, their great friction, and

the power required to work them, entailed so much

expense and inconvenience, that the line would not pay

a dividend. The company therefore resolved to abolish

the rope system altogether, and adopt locomotive en

gines, according to my original plan ; and the line was

extended to join the Eastern Counties Railway at Strat

ford, and the Tilbury and Southend Railway, and it

has been connected with the Victoria, East and West

India, London, and St. Katharine Docks, and now pays
                      3 to 3| per cent. In fact, all that
a  dividend of about
                      been done, and the result has been
I  recommended has

successful ; but it would have been much more profitable

if my plan had been adopted in the first instance, while

the extra expense of the rope system would have been

saved.

   In the year 1844 came the great railway mania. Rail

ways were considered as a mine of wealth to whoever

Iwould undertake them ; and consequently new lines

were projected in all directions, and had my full share
of them : amongst others the Great Northern, the Leeds
and Carlisle, the Leeds and Bradford, the York and

Scarborough, the Bristol and Monmouth, the Bishop's

Stortford and Thetford (called the Direct Norwich), the
Birmingham and Boston, the Newry and Enniskillen,
the East Lincolnshire, the Lincoln and Hull, the Can

nock Chase, and the North Wales, &c. The consequence

was that the demand for engineering surveyors and

assistants was very great. Engineering was considered

to be the only profession where immense wealth and

fame were to be acquired, and consequently everybody
                       RAILWAY MANIA.                         295

became engineers. It was not the question whether

they were educated for  it,                  or competent to undertake

but simply whether any person chose to dub himself
it,

                    ;
engineer hence, lawyers' clerks, surgeons' apprentices,
merchants, tradesmen, officers in the army and navy,

private gentlemen, left their professions and became;
engineers the consequence was that innumerable
blunders were made, vast sums of money were reck

lessly expended, and the greater part of the lines were
thrown out of Parliament in consequence of the innu
merable errors committed in them.

The committee rooms of the Houses of Lords and

Commons were thronged to such degree with engi
                                             it a
neers, lawyers, and witnesses, that was scarcely pos

sible to find sufficient room for them. The barristers,

solicitors, and parliamentary agents made enormous

sums, and so did those engineers who were fortunate

enough to get paid. My labours were most arduous.             II

had to work night and day for several weeks in pre
paring plans for Parliament, and had only got paid,
should have made good fortune, for employed in one
is                                           iIf
                                                 I
          I
                             a
                                          a
department or another above three hundred assistants.

It true that received great deal of money but the
                                                       a
expenses were so great that the advances made to me
                                                           ;
were immediately absorbed, and before could balanceI
my accounts, most of the companies had vanished,
remaining largely in my debt. As to recovering my

debts in court of law, was impossible on account of

the difficulty of proving whether there was sufficient
number of directors present when the order was given,
a

                        it

and what were the names of the directors present                        ;

because, as they were not legally constituted companies,

the different members of the board could only be sued
in their individual capacities, whilst who employed
                                                   I,

the different parties to make the surveys and work out

the details, was clearly liable to them; so that the
206 AUTOBIOGKAPYH OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

claims against me were innumerable, and made without

mercy, and I had the greatest difficulty in satisfying

them without material loss.

  ITo give an example of the difficulties had to contend

with in establishing my case against one of the companies
that employed me --viz. the Cannock Chase Railway, an

essentially good concern, which has since been carried

into effect with considerable profit to another company
who took it up afterwards : My company had paid me
2500/. on account of the expenses, and they owed me

2700/. more, which they never disputed. They had

12,000/. in hand, and could have easily paid my bill;

but finding that they could not at that time carry their

line, they united with another company without paying

me, and handed over to them the 12,000/. subscribed
Ifor my company.
                  then got them to call a meeting,

and said that as their original company had collapsed,

I was prepared to meet them upon the most equitable

terms, namely, that they should pay the balance of my
disbursements actually out of pocket ; this they declined
Ito do.
         then offered to deduct my share of the dis
bursements if they would pay the balance ; this they

declined also, and they would pay no more. Finding

that I could do nothing with them, I sued them at law,

and brought an action against the chairman ; he, how

ever, proved that he was not present when the order
Iwas given to me, was therefore nonsuited, and had to
Ipay my expenses and his, which cost me 500/.
                                               then

brought an action against two other parties, who were

present when the order was given ; but then it was
proved against me that there was not a quorum, and

Ias could not get hold of the books, the secretary

Ihaving absconded with them, was nonsuited again at
Ithe cost of 500/. more. At last this secretary having

got into difficulties, got hold of the minutes of pro
ceedings by an extraordinary combination of circum
            GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.                   207

stances, went to the Court of Chancery, and eventually

established my case, and recovered the whole of my

claim, viz. 2700J. ; but without the costs. So that after

Iseven years' litigation recovered the 2700/., which was

Iwholly absorbed in the expenses; and therefore was
Iwhere began.

  IThe principal parliamentary Ibattle had was in

1844-5 ; and in the following year had another with

the Great Northern Railway. The late Mr. Gravatt

had the dual line from King's Cross by Barnet, Wel-

wyn, Stilton, Stamford, Corby, Lincoln, Asking to
York ; this was in every respect the shortest and the

most easy of execution ; unfortunately, our company
was not formed until the end of September, so that it
was extremely difficult, in so short a time, to get the

surveys and levels made correctly. The late Mr.

Francis Giles undertook to have the whole completed

in the most perfect manner by the 30th November,

1844, for depositing with the respective Clerks of the

Peace, as required by the Standing Orders of Parliament.

Mr. Giles's well-known reputation as a first-rate en

gineering surveyor appeared to Mr. Gravatt and myself

a sufficient guarantee that the surveys would be well

completed by the required time ; in this, unfortunately,

we were most grievously disappointed, for Mr. Giles,

who had a good deal of other business in hand, could

                                   it,
                                                  it
not devote his whole attention to  which was abso

lutely necessary in fact, he ought never to have
            it

                 ;
                          ;
undertaken  but he always assured us that would

be properly done in time. However, finding that he

did not go on so well as we expected, we endeavoured,

as far as practicable, to remedy the evil by setting on

additional surveyors ourselves, under the control of

Mr. Giles but in spite of all our exertions, Mr. Giles
;

failed completely, and our line, in consequence of the

numerous defects in the survey, was thrown out upon
298 AUTOBIOGROPHY OF SIR JOHN UENN1E.

Standing Orders, and the present Great Northern line,

which was our rival, but acknowledged to be not so

good, notwithstanding a strong opposition, was carried

through Parliament, very much to the annoyance of

Mr. Gravatt and myself, and Mr. Gravatt never forgave

Mr. Giles's neglect.

My rule on all these occasions was to endeavour to

conciliate the landowners through whose estates we

went, always asking and obtaining their permission

before entering upon their lands, and by this means we

made friends wherever we went; amongst other great

proprietors we went through a considerable portion of

Ithe Marquis of Exeter's estate, near Stamford. Upon

going down the line found one of our surveyors

Idrunk, and he had so completely departed from his

instructions that paid and discharged him at once.

I called on the Marquis to explain this, but he was not

visible, as he was busy with preparations for the recep
Ition of Her Majesty and H.R.H. the Prince Consort,
who were expected to arrive the next day.  then

went down the line as far as York, and upon my return

called again upon the Marquis at Burleigh, who received

me very coldly, and said when he gave me permission to

Igo through his estate, it was upon a particular line, which
   faithfully promised to adhere to ; but he was much

surprised and sorry to find that I had broken my word,

for that when H.R.H. the Prince Consort was shooting

in his preserves he found one of my surveyors with

several assistants breaking into and carrying the line

through them, which he had strictly forbidden, and

which I had as strictly promised to his Lordship that
I would not touch ; and it was most fortunate that the

surveyor and his assistants were not shot, for it was

never for a moment expected that they would be there.

After having heard his Lordship quietly, and having

asked the day, and the name of the surveyor, which his
PROPOSED BRISTOL AND CHEPSTOW RAILWAY.        299

ILordship told me, said that the man was not in my
Iemployment, for the very day on which last called
Iat Burleigh
              Ifound this same surveyor drunk, and
carrying the  line into the preserves, which  had
Istrictly
And I
forbidden, and immediately discharged him.
added that as his Lordship found him in the

preserves, he must have been sent there by somebody
else. His Lordship was at once perfectly satisfied with

this explanation, and became as friendly as ever, and
pressed me to stop and dine with him ; this invitation

I Icourteously declined, for was so much occupied that
I had not an hour to spare.

   One very important feature of our line, besides making
it shorter, more direct, and easier of execution, was the

position of the station at York, which we proposed to

make on the main line, immediately outside the walls of
the city ; and in order to effect this we carried our line

by a bridge across the railways then entering the York

station, while our rivals proposed to carry their line

into the station itself ; which scheme having been
adopted, compels them to back in and out, and not only
occasions considerable loss of time, but materially in

creases the risk of collisions.

Another important line was the Bristol and Chep

stow, which would materially have shortened the dis

tance between Bristol, Birmingham, and Liverpool,

instead of going round by Gloucester, and would have

enabled the South Wales Railway to shorten materially
their distance to London. In order to effect this

I proposed to carry the line across the Severn at the

old passage by an iron bridge, with a clear height of
100 feet above the high-water level of spring tides, so

as to enable the largest ships to pass under. It hap

pened that the rocks in the river afforded excellent

foundations for the piers.

The late Mr. Cobden was chairman of the Committee
300 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

in the House of Commons to whom this Bill was re

ferred, and they were all astonished at the boldness

and grandeur of the undertaking; although the late

Mr. Brunel and others did not deny its practicability,
yet the promoters of the undertaking could not see

their way to find the means for carrying it into effect,
and therefore the Bill was withdrawn.

  I forgot to mention the Central Kent Railway line,

1838. It had long been considered a desirable object

to connect Dover and London by a railway for the Con

tinent, and the South-Eastern had already obtained an

Act to make a line by Redhill, thence to Tunbridge,

Ashford, and Folkestone, to Dover, the distance being

86 miles, whereas the old coach road was only 72.

Moreover, the South-Eastern avoids all the principal
towns and population in Kent ; so much so, that it was

considered to be very objectionable, and that it would

Inot pay.
       was accordingly requested by a most influential
Icommittee to examine the county of Kent carefully, and
endeavour to find out a better line.  was not long

in discovering one, namely, to commence at London

Bridge, thence by Lewisham, Eltham, the Crays, the

Darent, 4 miles above Dartford, thence by Gravesend,
through Gad's Hill, crossing the Medway a mile above
Rochester, thence, within a mile of Maidstone, to East-

well, where it was to separate into two branches, one

to Ashford, and thence on to Folkestone and Dover ;

another to Canterbury, thence to Sandwich, where it was

to terminate ; while from the Darent another branch

was intended to run up the valley of that river, with a

tunnel at its head, and thence to Sevenoaks and Tun
bridge. From this it will be seen that the main line
connected all the principal towns in the county to
gether ; each was at the same time within the shortest

distance from the metropolis, and nearly 14 miles

nearer to Dover than the present South-Eastern line;
              SOUTH-EASTERN RAILWAY.                                301

and there was no inclination steeper than 1 in 264, or

20 feet to the mile, and the New Cross inclined plane

of the Greenwich and Croydon line of 1 in 100 for

three miles would have been avoided. This line was so

obviously the best for Kent and the sea-coast, that when

submitted to the South-Eastern Company, who had not

commenced theirs, they admitted                   and told their soliit it,
                                                              it

                                                                     I
citors, Messrs. Fearon, to tell our solicitors, Messrs.

Freshfield, that they would make terms with us for

carrying      into effect. How the negotiations fell
         I

            it

                                               ;
through never heard whether was from the oppo

sition of Maidstone and Lord Winchelsea, who, as well
                                                             -- although
as Sir   Percival Dyke, violently                 opposed    repented --
           understand, they have                  sincerely
since,I

                                     ;

                                      a
never could learn but the negotiation failed, although

we were perfectly ready to give up the line to the

South-Eastern upon                                reasonable compensation, and

they (the South-Eastern Railway) commenced and
             their  line round by Tunbridge,                   and bitter
completed     had   to repent it. Two of my
cause they                                                   assistants --
Crampton and Morris --after leaving me, considering

that would be good speculation to get up shorter
it                  a                                        a
                                         a                       a
line to Dover, persuadeda                         very worthy nobleman,

Lord Harris, who has considerable property near, be

tween Sittingbourne and Canterbury, and some other

influential landowners on the line, to form company

to make line between Rochester and Canterbury, and
Mr. George Burge, the contractor of the St. Katharine

Docks and Heme Bay Pier, under the late Mr. Telford,

joined them.

Burge had invested good deal of money at Heme
                    a

                              it,
Bay, and naturally expected that one day line of
                                                             a

railway would be made to                          and that the value of

his property would be considerably increased thereby.

Morris,   a  very honest, painstaking, and industrious

man, who had been in my service many years, and
afterwards became one of the contractors of the South
302 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENN1E.

Eastern Railway, and made a good deal of money
there, had the sagacity to purchase the old harbour
of Folkestone, it is said for 10,000/., and sold it to the
South-Eastern Railway Company, profiting consider

ably by the transaction. Crampton had made some im
provements in the locomotive engine, and afterwards
became the principal executive engineer to Messrs.

Samuda. At the time Crampton came into my em

ployment Messrs. Samuda had had a vessel constructed,
and had made the engines for propelling her upon a
new principle. The vessel was called the ' Gipsey
Queen,' and a day was appointed for the trial. Whether
Crampton had some misgivings about the success of the

Iexperiment, or whether he was tired of the employ

ment, do not know, but he was anxious to come

Iunder me. Knowing him to be a clever, hard-working

person, took him, and he continued serving me faith
fully for four years. Crampton entered my service

Ifour days before the experimental trial of the ' Gipsey

Queen,' which took place, think, in the year 1840.
The result of the trial was that the boiler blew up,

Samuda's brother and four men were killed, and if

Crampton had remained in their service, he would
probably have been killed also. During the time
Crampton was in my service, he made the acquain
tance of my solicitors, the Messrs. Freshfield, who con
ceived a high opinion of his talents and energy.

    Morris, Crampton, and Burge, then, commenced the
London, Chatham, and Dover Railway with compara
tively very little support for an undertaking of the
kind, and experienced very great uphill work ; so much
so, that Burge got alarmed, and Morris and Crampton
bought him out. Morris and Crampton still struggled
on with and then Morris went out, and Crampton

remained alone. At last he got Peto and Betts to join

him, and then the concern went ahead. Lord Sondes,
   large proprietor in Norfolk and in Kent, also joined
a

               it,
LONDON, CHATHAM, AND DOVER RAILWAY.  303

them, and they completed the original line. They then
went to Parliament to extend their railway by an inde

pendent line to London, and from Canterbury to Dover,

and, subsequently, by lines to the City, so as ultimately
to join the Metropolitan Railway, and from thence with
the Great Northern Railway at King's Cross. How they
raised the enormous amount of capital to execute these
works was a miracle, but the tale has at last been un

folded, and the unfortunate subscribers have found it out,

to their cost ; the concern has become bankrupt, and the
great contracting firm of Peto and Betts, as well as
Crampton, have ended in the * Gazette,' as a melancholy

example of what energy and capital will come to when
pushed beyond their just limits. The original shares of
100/. may now (at the time of writing) be bought at
18/., and the South-Eastern Railway have been com

pelled to expend nearly 700,000/. to cut off the angle

between London and Tunbridge ; whereas, if they had

only adopted my line of the Central Kent Railway, as
they agreed to do in 1838, all this would have been

avoided ; the London, Chatham, and Dover would

never have been made, the enormous losses would not

 have occurred, thirty-two millions would not have
 been spent in railways for a single county, and the
 South-Eastern shares would not (at the time of writing)
 be at 65.
304 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOIIN RENNIE.

                     CHAPTER VII.

Swedish Railways -- Surveys in Holland and Portugal.

In 1844 Count Adolphe Rosen obtained a concession
Ifor making railways in Sweden, and offered me half the

concession, provided that would go over to Sweden,

lay out  the lines,   and bring   the matter  before the
English              accordingly  employed a
         public. I                            Mr. Tottie,

a Swede, who had been employed by Mr. Rastrick, to

make the surveys of the lines laid out by me, which con

sisted of a main one from Gothenburg right through

the kingdom to Oxhoe, as the central portion for the

iron trade; from thence one branch went to the upper

end of the Lake Wener, and the other to the Lake Malar,

to communicate with Stockholm ; the line then proceeded

north by Westeras to Upsala, and thence to Stock

Iholm.

   The same year went from Hull with Count Rosen

Ito Gothenburg by steam, and spent two or three days

there. The country through which passed, though not

Irich, was much more so and better cultivated than ex
pected to finda

                  it,

                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                                           ;
                     and the people honest, simple, and

industrious, and extremely civil. The general appear
ance rather picturesque, and in places wild, being
covered with dense forests of firs, larch, beech, &c.

large spaces had been cleared of wood and brought under

cultivation. The houses were for the most part built of
wood, in the Russian fashion, the logs being laid close

together, dovetailed at the ends, and the joints caulked

with moss, the inside being closely planked, and in every

room was stone or porcelain stove the windows were
SWEDEN.                             305

double, and in winter the outer and inner were both

shut up, and all the joints pasted with paper so as to
prevent the admission of the outer air. The houses

were generally very comfortable. In some of the larger
towns, such as Orebro, many of the houses were solidly

built of stone, others had stone foundations and wooden
superstructure ; most of the country churches were of
stone, with a detached building of wood for the bells,

which were frequently of a large size, with a very fine

full melodious sound. Gothenburg is a very well

and regularly built town, chiefly of stone, in the
Dutch style, with canals running through the streets.

Some of the houses of the principal merchants, as well

as public buildings, are spacious and handsome, al

though the town generally has a heavy, dull, yet sub

Istantial appearance.

      resolved to visit the celebrated iron mine of Daune-

mora, some miles farther northward. I accordingly
started off with Count Rosen, and reached it the same

evening, and visited the mine next day ; it consisted

of a mass of rock, cropping out to the surface, of almost

solid magnetic iron, containing about 75 to 80 per cent,

of the finest metal. There were extensive forests round,

so that there was no want of fuel ; the wood was con

verted into charcoal, and the finest iron was extracted,

the best for making steel ; it fetched the highest price in

the English market, where there was a great demand

for it. The machinery employed was very rude and
simple, the bellows for the forges being in some cases
Idriven by manual or horse labour, in others, where it
was accessible, by water power.  was anxious to go

to the great mining district of Dalecarlia, about 100

miles farther north, but the season was getting late, and

Itherefore was obliged to return to England.
  I IWhen had got all my surveys finished, made a

Ireport upon the whole line ; but found that the Swedish

Government was not sufficiently alive to the importance

                                 x
30C AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

of railways at that time, or rather the Government did
not see its way to giving them encouragement by sub
scribing or rather taking a pecuniary interest in them.
Though by no means undervaluing the importance of

railways, yet, being naturally cautious and economical,
with only moderate funds at its command, the Govern
ment doubted much whether a reasonable profit would
be derived from them, but at the same time wished

Ius every success in obtaining the money in England.
   represented to them that people in England, knowing
nothing of Sweden, or her capabilities, would hesitate
to subscribe their money without a certain guarantee
by the Government of interest of 4 or 5 per cent, upon
the amount of capital expended, and that as it was quite
clear that the railways would pay that, there could be
no risk ; in fact, the guarantee would be merely nominal,
but that it would have the effect of obtaining the money
in England, and thus conferring upon Sweden a great
national benefit, by saving their capital without run

Ining the least risk. was recommended to give a grand

dinner, which several of the ministers and all the other
notables of Stockholm attended. Everybody was en
thusiastic, and a great number of speeches were made as
to the importance of railways, and the great national
benefit they would confer, and my health was proposed
by the Minister of Commerce, Skogman, and was re
ceived with the greatest enthusiasm, but the effect was
nothing, for we neither got private subscriptions nor
public guarantee. However, after all we had done some
thing ; we had introduced the subject of railways into
Sweden, we had shown the importance of them, and
we had in some measure opened their eyes, and we
trusted that in time, when they had maturely reflected
upon the advantages, they would view them more
favourably, and contribute liberally towards them ; but
as there was no use in then pressing the subject further,

we returned at once to England.
SWEDISH RAILWAYS.                 307

   In all fevers there is a climax; the railway fever
had its climax like the rest, and it was then upon

the decline. The vast multitude who had expected

to make their fortunes found at last to their sorrow

that their money was gone ; but that was not the

worst, for they would have been very happy if they

had not had to pay more. As for any new railway

speculation, that was entirely out of the question,

and therefore it turned out that the Swedish railways

were too late for the market ; nobody would entertain

the subject; the very name of railway was sufficient

to drive everyone away, so that there was no help

for it but to abide better times. Accordingly the

Swedish railways remained in abeyance until the year

1852 ; by this time the Swedish Government had con

sidered the subject maturely, and felt that, as every

other European nation had adopted them, Sweden, if

she desired to keep pace with other countries, must

either make the railways herself, for which at the time

the Government had not the money, or she must en

courage others to make them by guaranteeing a suffi

cient interest for the capital expended. Accordingly

I went there again, and was as usual very kindly re
Iceived by the King and his Ministers, and saw that

Ithey were becoming more anxious than ever that
the railways should be made.  had been there in

October, 1848, and had the honour of being invited to

Idine at the palace in Stockholm, as had previously the

honour of dining with their Majesties at the summer

Ipalace of Hoga, near Stockholm. Upon arriving at the

palace was most courteously received by King Oscar,
who did me the honour of presenting me to his hand

some, graceful, and intelligent queen. When her Ma

jesty heard that the railways were to be commenced, she

said that she had heard so much talk about them and

nothing had been done, that she feared they never
would be made, " therefore talk no more about them, but

                              x2
308 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Iset to work and make them." The dinner party consisted
of about thirty.  had the honour of sitting next the

Lord Chancellor, a very agreeable, intelligent person,

who sat next to the Royal Family. We had an excellent

dinner, without the least restraint, and the common

topic of conversation seemed to be, who would be elected
President of the French Republic, Cavaignac or Louis

Napoleon, and everybody seemed in favour of Cavaignac

as the proper person ; they all spoke very disparagingly

of Louis Napoleon. It seems curious to think how little

the world knew of that extraordinary man, and how

Icompletely he disappointed all previous expectations.

   When at Stockholm was presented to his present

Majesty, King Charles XV., then Prince Karl, a very

handsome intelligent young man. Since his accession to

the throne he has done me the honour of conferring upon
me the order of Knight Commander of the Order of

IWasa, for what his Majesty was pleased to term the

great services which had rendered Sweden. This was
the more agreeable, as it was sent to me through my

personal friend Count Platen, then the Swedish repre

Isentative at the Court of London. Many years ago
made acquaintance with his father, the celebrated Count

Platen, who was the chief instrument in changing the

dynasty from the worn-out old race, and in placing
Bernadotte on the throne. My introduction to the
Count arose in this manner. The Count took the utmost

interest in the completion of the great Gotha Canal,

which unites the river Gotha below the falls of that

river and the lower end of the great Lake Werner,

thus completing the navigation between the whole of

the towns bordering upon that lake and Gothenburg.

A canal had formerly been made between the lower end

of the lake and the river Gotha (which issues from
below the falls, and at the time very great work
                  a

                                              it it)

was, but the locks were so unequally distributed, and
the rise of some of them so great, that the navigation
                      COUNT PLATEN.             309

was very much impeded ; the Count, therefore, came
over to England, after the death of my father, to consult

Mr. Telford, who was then considered our first engineer,

as to what was the best means of improving the Gotha

Canal, so as to avoid the inconvenience complained of.
Mr. Telford went over, prepared a plan, and carried it

into effect, much to the satisfaction of the Swedish

Government. During Count Platen's visit to England,

Mr. Telford brought him to Lynn, where we met

as engineers of the Eau Brink Drainage and Naviga

tion, and we explained to him the whole of the Eau
Brink Works, with which he was much pleased. He was

a very superior person, grave and dignified, with great
intelligence, and of easy, affable manners. The Mayor
of Lynn being informed by Mr. Telford of his visit,
called upon him, and being introduced, invited him, in

the name of the Corporation, to one of their civic dinners,

which he accepted. He had, however, brought no dress

suit with him, and indeed was perfectly indifferent

about  it,and would have gone to the mayor's feast in

his travelling costume, which, to say the least, was verya

rough. Telford consulted me about    it,and we both

agreed that the Count could not attend the dinner witha

out the usual evening dress costume. Upon this being

delicately explained by Mr. Telford, he took the hint

and sent for tailor, who in the course of couple of

days equipped him properly. The greatest attention

was of course paid to him by all the company.
   To return to my subject. As time went on, the money

market got in such bad state--no end of failures--that
                      a

nothing could be done with the Swedish railway, and
                                     it
                                                 it

                                                        I
began to think all my money and labour would be thrown

away. The period for which Count Rosen's conces

sion was granted had elapsed, and was very doubtful

whether would be renewed at all, but certainly
       it

would not in any case be to the extent of the original

concession, which comprised the whole kingdom.
310 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN REXXIE.

Fortunately, however, in 1852, confidence in the

money market had been restored, and we received a re

newal of the concession for so much of the line as

extended between the Lakes Malari and Werner,

with a branch to the iron mines of Nora from Orebro,

which was as valuable as any part of the line ; and the

Government gave a guarantee of 4 per cent, on the

amount of capital required, namely, 420,000/., with

power to raise 167,000/. more. The line was very easy,
and Mr. Burge, the contractor,
                                  agreed to  complete it
for that sum. A company was     accordingly
                                             formed, the

Icapital was immediately subscribed, and the shares
went to a premium.  went over to Sweden again ;

appointed Mr. Watson resident engineer, and the works

began and proceeded very well for one year ; unfortu
nately the chairman and leading man on the committee
was the notorious John Sadlier, M.P., who afterwards
made away with himself near Jack Straw's tavern,
Hampstead Heath, when the whole of his proceedings
were made public ; and, amongst others, his mismanage
Iment of the Swedish railway. What became of the
money  never could make out, for I never could

account for above 60,000/. as having been expended
on the works and land combined ; but it is certain that
accounts far beyond that were presented to me by the
directors for my certificate, which they were obliged to
Iget before they could be passed by the Government,

though never would give the certificate, because they
kept everything back from me; and finding that
I Imatters were going on in such a discreditable manner,
felt that with any regard for my character   could
I Ino longer remain their engineer. I therefore resigned

at once, and fortunate it was that did so, for after
wards was informed that they had not only spent the
whole 420,000/., but also 167,000/. of debentures, and
had issued 167,000/. more without authority; so that in

round numbers they had expended about 700,000/., and
                 SWEDISH RAILWAYS.                      31]

had not completed 50 miles of single line, which

required nothing more than surface formation, and one
or two short lengths of embankment and cutting scarcely

exceeding 20 feet high ; for which 6000/. per mile com

plete was ample. In fact, there never was a good affair

so completely mismanaged, not to use much stronger

terms. The consequence was that after Sadlier's death

the whole   came out,    and   everyone   laid  the blame upon
him. The    particulars        not know,  and
                         I do                   thank God I got

Iclear of it in good time, finding that it was impossible to
remain with honour.      never would certify the accounts
Ithe directors presented to me, because believed that
                               error, if not something
at the  least they were in                              worse.
        did was to certify     to the contractor, Mr.   Burge
All I
I(who, as knew, behaved very honestly), to the extent,
I think, of 25,000/. or 30,000/. Thus this fine con

cern went to the dogs from sheer mismanagement,

to speak mildly, and the shares, which had stood at a
premium, were worth nothing ; whereas in the hands of
any sensible, honest body of directors, the line ought to

have been completed for the estimate, and would have

paid well. The Swedish Government could not with
justice pay any guarantee when no part of the line

Ihad been completed and no satisfactory accounts ren

dered ; and have reason to believe that they were so

disgusted with the way in which this railway had been
mismanaged by the Board that they would have nothing

further to  do   with English or    aonfythoethleinr ecsotmhepmansieelsv,esb--ut
determined   to  make all the rest
Iwhich understand they have done --and that the cost

did not exceed my estimate of 5000/. to 6000/. per

mile, including stations and rolling stock.

  I had previously examined several other parts of
Sweden, and in November, 1850, I had gone there,

undertaking to deliver on my way a confidential letter

from Count Reventlow, the Danish Ambassador in

London, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs at Copen
312 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

hagen. We went by Hamburg and Kiel, for at this

time war was again expected to break out between

Schleswig-Holstein and Denmark, and both parties were

watching one another with the greatest anxiety.

Schleswig-Holstein is not a rich country by any

means, although there are apparently some substantial
farmers. The country is generally flat, with here and

there some gentle eminences, with patches of fir trees ;

but there are some extensive mosses which might be

reclaimed and converted into valuable land if properly

drained. These mosses in many cases rest upon a bed

of marl, which upon being dug up and mixed with the

peat forms most valuable manure. We saw many
examples of this in
north of Denmark.    the fens of Lincolnshire, and in the

                     I have been informed upon credible

authority that there are vast tracts of moss lands lying

upon marl, and small lakes which might easily be drained
and become most fertile ; and it is to be hoped that the
Danish Government will find the means of reclaiming
them, as they will well repay the expense. Rends-

burg, through which we passed, is a little town, well
fortified, and may be made much stronger. Kiel,

situated upon a splendid bay in the Baltic, is the

university of Holstein, and a very neat little thriving

town, with prettily wooded environs. From here we
proceeded to Schleswig, the capital of the province, its

inhabitants being partly Germans and partly Danes ;

in the northern part of Schleswig the inhabitants are

wholly Danes. The town of Schleswig is about 12
miles from the Baltic ; it is well built, surrounded with

a very pretty fertile country, well cultivated, and diver
sified with wood. There is a good deal of agricultural

traffic with the surrounding country, and the place
appeared very thriving and prosperous. We arrived
there about six o'clock in the evening, about two hours
after dark, and it began to feel very cold. We got to
a very comfortable inn, and were dining, or rather had
A MYSTERIOUS VISITOR.

finished our dinner, when the waiter entered with a

quiet, mysterious air, and said, or rather whispered, that

Ia gentleman wished to speak to me. Knowing no one

in the place, could not conceive what he meant ; he,

Ihowever, repeated the whisper in my ear in the same

mysterious manner. When told him to show the
stranger in, there was no person in the room but my
friend, Mr. William Sim, afterwards the solicitor to the

Swedish Railway Company, who had accompanied me.

Immediately after the waiter's departure the door
opened, and in came a gentleman muffled up to the
eyes in a blue military cloak. He cautiously shut the

door, then uncovered his face, and looking stealthily

round, and observing nobody but Sim and myself,

advanced at once to the table, threw off his cloak, took
Ioff his cap, and saluted me as a naval officer.
                                                  motioned

him to be seated, which he courteously declined, and

Iaddressing himself to me, said that he had been informed

that was the English gentleman who had brought

despatches of importance from Count Reventlow to

the Danish Government, and that he was a Danish

Inaval officer, and had been sent by the commanding

officer of Alsen to request that would deliver up my

despatches^to him, as it was of the utmost consequence

that they should be delivered to the Danish Government
I Ias soon as possible.
told him that was perfectly un
Iacquainted with him, and that could not do so without

a personal conference with the General commanding at

Alsen, because these despatches had been confided to

Ime by the Danish Minister in London, and as a point of

honour could not deliver them to any but an accredited

officer of the Government. He then said that if I

would be at Dussel, opposite to Alsen, the following

morning, at eight o'clock, the General would have a boat
ready to take me over to the island, and would have a
war steamer in readiness to take me to Kosoa, where

I could readily get to Copenhagen. I accordingly
31 I AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

agreed to be at Dussel the following morning at eight

o'clock. The officer, who was a perfect gentleman,

then muffled himself up in his cloak, and requesting

that we should say nothing about his arrival, quietly

left the room. Sim and myself ordered a carriage with

four horses to be ready the following morning at six

o'clock, paid our bill, and went to bed. During the

night there had been a very heavy fall of snow, and

when we started there was some difficulty in moving

forward. We were therefore obliged to take extra

horses, and passing by the now celebrated heights of

Dussel, reached the shore opposite the island of Alsen

precisely at the time appointed, where we found a boat

with four oars ready to take us across the Sound (which
Iwas about half a mile wide) ; here we were received by
the General in full uniform.  then delivered him the

despatches, for which he felt very much obliged, and

we went on board a small war steamer, which got

under way immediately, and landed us at Kosoa, not

far from Copenhagen, where we slept. Next day we

examined the cathedral at Roskeld, and reached Copen
Ihagen in the evening.
When  first visited Sweden, a vast quantity of

brandy distilled from potatoes was consumed; so much

so, that the country was, to a certain extent, demoralized,

and drunkenness was very common ; and the farther
north you went, the worse it was. The Government

therefore determined to take every means in its power

to suppress it. Heavy duties were imposed on potato

brandy ; and since that time, I am glad to hear that

drunkenness has considerably abated. The Swedes are

an excellent, open-hearted, gallant, and generous people,
Iand most amiable and hospitable.
                                   was treated
Iwith the greatest kindness by them, for which shall

always feel grateful. Christmas is a general holiday
throughout the country for a month, commencing with

Christmas Eve. During that time, scarcely any busi
              SWEDISH CUSTOMS.             315

ness is done. There is nothing but visiting and social

parties from morning to night ; and it requires a strong

stomach and head to go through that festive ordeal

without feeling the worse for it. When once entered

the house, you cannot refuse to accept their kind and

profuse hospitality. As a specimen, whenever a mar

riage takes place, the bride not only appears before her

friends, but the house is thrown open to the public, and

everybody is at liberty to enter and pay his respects to

the bride and bridegroom, who receive all comers in

full-dress bridal costume ; and refreshments of all kinds

Iare in great profusion. When was there a marriage
Itook place between two noble families, to which was

invited. The bride and bridegroom were both young,

Iand bride very handsome and splendidly dressed.

was most kindly received and entertained, and did not
Iget home until very late in the morning.
                                           found
I Ithat had taken as much as could decently carry,
I I Iand if had not escaped at the time did, must have

remained all the next day, as many of the bridegroom's

friends did.
IIn Sweden
              made acquaintance, amongst many

others, with our excellent Consul, Major Pringle, who
Iduring the last American war had the command of

Washington for twenty-four hours. was frequently a

Iguest at his house, and owe many thanks to him

and his amiable wife and family for their great kind

ness and hospitality. Another excellent fellow was

Mr., or Colonel, Elsworthy (as he called himself), the
American Consul. He was a bachelor, and kept open

house, and he was so exceedingly hospitable, and

pressed his guests so strongly, that it was with the

greatest difficulty you could escape sober enough to

reach your quarters with safety.

The woods of Sweden were being fast cleared away,

both to furnish fuel for the iron manufactory, in which

a great quantity was consumed, and also that the land
316 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

might be used for agriculture, so that this source of fuel

for iron making is rapidly disappearing. In addition to

these causes may be mentioned the great export of timber

to every part of Europe for building and other purposes.

It is true that large forests of fine timber still exist

farther north, and also in Norway, but then the expense
of transport to the iron districts will be very heavy ;

yet as Swedish iron is so very valuable, on account
of its magnetic properties, for making steel, a large

quantity must always be required for the southern
markets of Europe, and with the greater cost of fuel
the price of Swedish iron must increase.

   The Bessemer process has considerably reduced the
expense of producing good iron in England, and also
for converting it into steel, still the Swedish iron is so

much better that there will always be a certain demand

for it.

  It becomes a question, then, whether it would not be

worth while to export the Swedish ore to England,

where there is plenty of fuel, and where it could be

converted into the best iron at the least expense.

Would it not be cheaper to do this, than to manufac

ture the iron in Sweden, where fuel is so much dearer ?

and as the Swedish iron ore is very rich compared

Iwith ours, except the haematite, the extra freight would
soon be recouped.  think it is by no means improbable

that it will come to this at last.

   About the time that the Railway guarantee was
obtained from the Swedish Government, and the com

pany was successfully started, another undertaking was
proposed to me by a M. Von Alstein, a Belgian pro
prietor, and a man of some influence and property in

that kingdom. The Dutch Government was anxious to

get a more direct and constant navigation up the

Scheldt, as that round by Bergen-op-Zoon was only
practicable from half tide to high water, while at low
                 THE SCHELDT.  317

water the whole channel was completely dry. It was

considered, also, that the whole of the old channel

might be filled up and converted into valuable land,
so that the fertile island of St. Beveland might be

joined to the mainland, and thus the kingdom would be

greatly benefited. The Government did not, however,

want to undertake the necessary works itself, but

was ready to give up the whole of the old channel to

any company that would construct the new canal

above mentioned, as well as an embankment and road

across the old channel, so as to connect the island of St.

Beveland with the mainland. Accordingly upon these

terms a concession was granted to M. Von Alstein and

others, giving them the whole of the lands to be

reclaimed, which would amount to a very considerable

tract. The plan, upon due investigation, appeared to

offer considerable advantages to any party who would

undertake it. It was accordingly brought before the
English public. A Belgian and English company was

formed to carry it out. The money was duly sub
scribed, and Mr. Thomas Hutchings, at that time a

large railway contractor, and considered to possess un
doubted means, offered to take a large number of

Ishares. He accordingly became the contractor for the

work, and was appointed the engineer-in-chief, while

M. Von Alstein became the managing director, and a

M. Dronker, a Dutch engineer and contractor of con

Isiderable experience, was appointed by Mr. Hutchings
sub-contractor under him.  went over to Holland to

examine the whole district and the works proposed, and

it appeared to me that if they were properly carried

into effect, it would turn out a very fair speculation,
yielding considerable profit. My visit was made in

December, 1851.

Things having, in 1852, been satisfactorily settled

with the Government at the Hague, as soon as the
            AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

weather would permit, arrangements were made for

commencing the works, and in the month of June
Mr. Hutchings, myself, and the English and Belgian
directors being present, the first sod of the canal was

turned with considerable ceremony by one of the

Dutch Princes.

   Whilst the canal was proceeding, the company was
empowered to enclose as much of the land of the old

channel as was considered advisable by a jury of Dutch

experts, without whom nothing could be done. M. Von

Alstein, the manager of the company, attended, and the
jury marked out a space in the old channel of the

Scheldt, which was always covered to a considerable

extent at high water of spring tides, and even neap

tides, including the green marsh as well as the sands.

The Dutch jury marked a space of 3000 acres, which
included about one-third of green marsh and two-thirds
of sand -- part of which was clayey ; when this was
done, I went over to examine
                                        a         and was much sur

                                             it,
prised to find that so large space had been decided

upon.       said to M. Von Alstein, the director, that
I

        it

        I

                it

                                     a
thought was far too much to be taken in at once
                                                      it ;
that would cost great deal of money that the sands
                                        ;

                                                  I;
were not worth the expense and that thought

would be far better to confine the intake to the green

marshes for the present year, and that before the sands

were taken in they ought to be worked up so as

to become green marshes. For, in fact, in England,

where had reclaimed many thousand acres, never
       I

               it

                                    I
                                                   I
thought of enclosing bare sands. The manager, how

ever, told me that was totally contrary to the Dutch

system, and as the jury had decided upon taking the

sands as well as the green marshes to the extent above

mentioned,  must be done, and he would not listen

to my recommendation of taking in a less quantity.

The Dutch engineers also fixed the dimensions and

form of the embankments, which did not approve of.
                   THE SCHELDT.

IIn fact, disapproved of the whole plan, and told
M. Von Alstein my opinion, and that I could not take

upon myself the responsibility. The manager said that

Ithe works must be carried into effect as decided by the
Dutch jury and the Dutch engineers.                was therefore

obliged to be silent, particularly as Mr. Hutchings, who

was the contractor and also the leading shareholder,

had consented to it. The works accordingly began

under M. Dronker, Mr. Hutchings' sub-contractor ; and

Mr. Brown, one of Mr. Hutchings' partners, was sent

Iover to superintend the works on the part of Hutch

ings, Brown, and Wright. remained some time on the
spot, and had a boat fitted up to live in at Barth, for
Ithere were no lodgings to be had.
                                                   soon saw by the

manner in which M. Dronker was carrying on the

works that they could not succeed, and I wrote re

peatedly to Mr. Hutchings    to come               over,  otherwise   he
would be ruined, as his                            Brown             no
                           partner --                     -- knew

thing abouta Itand allowed Dronker to proceed as he

liked.  appeared to me asit                        was nothing more

nor less than throwing away money by handfuls, noI it,
                   I
adequate amount of work being done for it.                    never
                                  a                       I
saw such gross mismanagement in my life. There were
                                      if                         I

                                               it
from twelve to thirteen hundred men employed at 3s.
to 4s. day, with number of assistants, and they

were not doing work enough for half that number.

also expostulated with Dronker, the Dutch contractor,

but he would not listen to me, and said that he would

do as he liked. The works continued to proceed in this

manner, and wrote almost every post to Hutchings

to come over himself without delay, or to stop the

works, for was impossible to complete them for any
reasonable sum in the manner in which they were

being carried on.  told him, moreover, that was in
                                                          it

vain to attempt to reclaim 3000 acres at once, and

the better plan would be to confine his operations, in

the first instance, to taking in the green marsh, which
320 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

was about 1000 acres, and to wait until the sands were

worked on the outside, which would be done much

Imore rapidly when once the green marsh was enclosed.
   told the manager and Dronker the same ; however,

they would not listen. At length, after great difficulty,

I got them to divide the enclosure into two parts, each
I Iconsisting of 1500 acres, and hoped that should be

able to induce them to subdivide these two again into
750 each. By this means the green marsh in each

division would have been reduced to about 500 acres,

which would easily have been enclosed at a considerable
profit, leaving the sands to be dealt with hereafter ac

cording to circumstances.

   However, nothing   would   do but   tshaenydsm, uwsht icchonItinsauwe
pushing on the outer  bank   over the
was impracticable at any cost within reason. At last,

Hutchings came over himself, and when he visited the

works held up his hands in astonishment, and saw that

he was a ruined man. By this time money ran short,
the workmen rebelled for wages and threatened destruc

tion to Hutchings and all concerned ; and the Dutch

Government, being applied to, sent three hundred sol

diers and two armed cutters to keep order. The men

were paid, great numbers were discharged, and the

works went on upon a much better system, and con

siderable progress was made, but still they would not
confine themselves to the enclosure of the green marsh.
After a great deal of difficulty they nearly succeeded in

enclosing 1500 acres near to Barth ; but before this

Ifcould be done Hutchings' funds were exhausted, and he
was obliged to stop payment.  my advice had been

followed this never would have occurred. Some fresh

parties then joined the concern, and, adopting my

advice, confined themselves to enclosing the 1000 acres

of marsh land.

  At certain times of the year, particularly at the end

of summer and in the autumn, it is difficult to conceive
                     THE SCHELDT.  321

a more unwholesome district, as at those times the

Imarsh fever invariably makes its appearance with the
most deadly effect.  had several fine, strong, healthy

young men as assistants with me, living in my ship,
and at dinner it was by no means uncommon to see one

taken ill and fall off his chair. The only remedy was
to give him a strong stimulant of wine or brandy, wrap

Ihim up in blankets, and send him off as quietly as pos

sible. Fortunately had been so thoroughly cured

Iof my fever when at Naples, as before mentioned, that

   had become as it were acclimatized and never ex
perienced the least attack. The island of St. Beveland,

where these works were carried on, is one of the most

rich and fertile districts imaginable, teeming with
luxurious vegetation of every kind, and abounding in

beautiful little villages, the very models of cleanliness

and comfort ; but amongst them the fever lurks in the

most insidious form. Mr. Brown, a fine, powerful man

of about forty-five, whilst superintending these works

for his partners and himself, had an excellent house in
the village of Yersike, about four miles distant, supplied

with every English comfort both of furniture and pro

visions ; but after a time he caught the fever, which

stuck to him for a considerable time, and ultimately he

was obliged to leave the place, as otherwise he must

have succumbed. The Dutch never go out in the morn

ing without taking a cup of coffee and a dram of bitters,
composed of gentian, quinine, and gin, and a pipe, which
is scarcely ever out of their mouths, and they repeat the
dose at night and not uufrequently during the day. In

the English fens and lowlands we do pretty much the

Isame, and good port wine and quinine are considered

a specific; but do not think that the fever is so bad
with us as in Holland ; the cause may be that these

Dutch islands being surrounded by the sea, the tide

leaves a large surface of mud exposed to the action

of the sun, and thus a considerable amount of malaria
322 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIB JOHN REXNIE.

is engendered ; this I have always found to prevail
most densely where there are trees, which prevent it
from being dissipated ; so that it is always safer to be

in a boat, or in a house without any trees near
                 is                                                       so as
                                                                   a
                                                                     it,
to be exposed to the free circulation of the air, also to

sleep at least 20 feet above the ground.
   The whole of the seaboard of Holland requires to be

remodelled. The numerous channels through which

the tidal and fresh waters pass occupy considerable

surface which     comparatively useless, and only serve

to deteriorate the main channels of the rivers, and thus

prevent them from discharging their waters effectually,
Ifand so keeping them open, in the best state for drainage
and navigation.      these superfluous channels were

filled up, and the islands which they surround were
united to the mainland, great quantity of valuable
                     a

                                                ;

                                                                a
land would be gained to the State the extensive em

bankments which are now necessary to prevent these

islands from being submerged, and which entail great

and constant tax upon the kingdom, would be considerably
reduced the main rivers and harbours would be mate
;
         ;rially improved, and the general surface of the water in

         isthe interior would be lowered the drainage also might
                     ;;
be improved in the same manner, so as to render a
considerably less amount of artificial drainage power
necessary, which would in turn cause correspond
ing reduction of the taxes while the land would
                                          a

                                            it
                                                 is
be greatly improved, because the present general body

of water     too near the surface, so that           impos

sible to carry on agriculture to the greatest advan
tage also the risk of breaking the banks would be

greatly reduced.  I  think, moreover, that the vast

multitude  of    sphrtoohapelesrowbmhjeieccahtnsst--koiratbnedtheothbcotoasaienset ndmo--tighebxte,pebnraysiisvteehd,e
adoption   of
compared
             to

sufficiently so as to be converted into valuable land,

and be added to the kingdom with considerable profit,
                        HOLLAND.

while the navigation along the coast and in the interior

might be greatly improved. Further, the whole of the

Zuyder Zee, which is said to have been under culti
vation in early times, might be reclaimed. As extra

ordinary spring tides seldom rise high along these

coasts, and as vegetation generally takes place at the
level of high water of neap tides, the lands on the coast,

if properly managed, should not be above 4 or 5 feet

Ibelow the level of high water of spring tides, although

   believe it is a fact that many tracts in the interior

are much lower, and this arises from their having been

embanked too soon.

Now that these lands have been brought into cultiva

tion at vast expense, it would be difficult to raise them

without rendering them useless for a considerable

time. Still, in all contemplated new enclosures, the

lands should be raised by warping, that    is,

                                                      if
                                           accumu

lating the alluvial matter, which can always be done

properly managed up to the level of high water of
neap tides. In fact, repeat, considerable extent of
                    ;I  if a
Holland has been embanked too soon, and what has
                             it
been done would be extremely difficult, perhaps not
it

advisable, to disturb although, any of these very low

lands are not sufficiently fertile, would be well to
warp them up with fresh soil. They might thus be

sufficiently raised to do away with the greater part

of the artificial power now required to keep them

dry, and be rendered very fertile thus double ad;is
vantage would be gained. This subject well worthya
of the serious attention of the Dutch Government and

its able staff of hydraulic engineers, who, nevertheless,

go too much upon the old routine, and prefer patching

up the old system in preference to striking out newa

course. Probably this not the fault of the engineers,is

as they would naturally attempt any new course whereby
they might distinguish themselves. The Government,

also, would most likely be induced to adopt any new
                                                                       y
                                           2
324 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

method, provided that it could see its way to bettering

the condition of the country. But, on the other hand,

the Government feels great disinclination to depart from
an old system which, it may be said with some reason,

has continued so many years, has answered its purpose

very well, and has rendered Holland, under the circum

stances, one of the most extraordinary countries in the
world. This is very true ; but then it must be recol

lected that hydraulic science has advanced like other

sciences, and what would be considered good practice
some centuries back would not be thought so now.

The Dutch introduced their system into England in
                         ; I.,
the reign of Charles            when Yermuyden was con

sidered the first hydraulic engineer of the time. He
certainly was considerably in advance of the English

engineers of that period but at the present time his

method would be wholly inadequate to deal with the

circumstances to be encountered, and was abandoned
                                a
long ago. The combination system, and comparatively
                                     a it
narrow channels, combined with warping the land,  is
what required in Holland as in all other countries
   is

       I
similarly situated.

   In 1855 went to Portugal, at the request of the

Government, to make arrangements for general system
of railways and other works. As we passed the Fort

Belem, at the entrance of the Tagus, the view gradually
opened out, until you obtained
                                coup cCosil of the

whole, which really very fine and striking. Fancyis

a  range of streets, houses, palaces, and churches rising

rapidly from the water's edge until they crown the

summits of the hills on which they are built, backed by

the picturesque outline of the Cintra hills, and extend
ing for upwards of three miles. We landed at the

custom house, close  by  the Plaza, commonly called by

the English Blackhorse Square, from the fine eques
trian figure of the Marquis of Pombal in the centre.
LISBON.  325

This is certainly a handsome square, surrounded by all
the public offices, terminated in the centre, on the south,
by a fine triumphal archway, which leads by a spacious
street to the square of Dom Pedro. Beyond this are

the public gardens, very tastefully laid out.

  I was introduced to Dom Fernando, the husband of

the late Dona Maria, Queen of Portugal, and at that
time Regent during the minority of his son. He was
of the House of Coburg, and brother to the late Prince

Consort. He received me very graciously, and spoke
English very well, although with a peculiar accent.
His Royal Highness afterwards invited me to a ball
and supper, at the Palace of Belem, which was extremely

Iwell managed, without magnificence or ostentation.

was there introduced to the Minister of Finance, Signor
Mello de Fontes, a young man of great talent and an

Iexcellent orator. On the following day attended a

launch at the dockyard, which was honoured by the

presence of the Prince Regent, and here I was intro

duced to the Duke de Saldanha, President of the

Cabinet ; the Duke de Tenjeira and his amiable wife ;
Viscount de Bandiera, together with the distinguished
men of all parties.

  IBefore proceeding to Oporto was obliged to remain
Iseveral days until could get my official instructions as

to what they required. I employed the interim in

visiting the different objects in Lisbon most worthy

of the traveller's notice. I first went to the great

aqueduct, which is really a very grand and magnificent
work, the finest of the kind in Europe, and every part

is readily accessible. It enters at the highest part of

the northern portion of the town, and conveys the
water to a large artificial reservoir, whence it is

distributed by pipes to fountains situated in different
parts of the town, and from these fountains it is carried
to the various houses by means of carriers and water
               AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

carts. These carriers are chiefly Gallegoes or Spaniards

from the Biscayan Provinces, who are allowed to charge

so much per barrel.
  It
           is  singular to see them travelling about  "froAmguoan,"e
part       of  the town to the other with cries of

and it is more singular still that this practice should

have been allowed to continue so long, to the great

and unnecessary tax upon the inhabitants, where, if

pipes were only laid to the houses, the water might
be distributed at probably one-tenth of the cost. The

Gallegoes are a hard-working, temperate race, who

save every penny they can, and as soon as possible

retire to their own country to enjoy the hard-earned
fruits of their labours.

The water before it reaches the city is collected in

reservoirs distributed about the valleys, at the base of

the Cintra hills, but these reservoirs are upon too small

a scale, and in dry seasons the water is very scarce.

A Portuguese company has since been formed to

enlarge the works, increase the supply, and deliver it

direct to the houses, but, like most Portuguese com
panies of the kind, has failed from the want of under

standing the subject and from mismanagement.

  I visited the fine old Cathedral of Belem, built in

honour of Prince Henry, the Portuguese navigator.

The style is a species of richly florid Gothic, and the

interior is spacious and imposing. There was an

hospital for invalid sailors attached to which now
                               is
converted into naval academy.      is a
               a
I     also visited the Castle of Belem close by, where allisit,

                                                      a
                                                            a

                                                           is
ships coming to Lisbon are obliged to stop and show

their papers and get pratique before they are allowed

to proceed. The castle itself  very small fortress,

built in the Moorish style, and mounts                few light

brass guns, and manned by about fifty artillerymen.

It very pretty object to look upon, but as fortress
it       a
    is is
           good for nothing. There another fort, called
                    LISBON.                                                                                                 ;il>7

St. Julian, about five or six miles lower down, on the

same side, which commands the channel passing close
to but also was in dilapidated condition, with
few light guns. Itit,is
       is                a

            it                            is
                                                aa

                                                  is
                                                         a

                                                           is
                                                                                  a
                    certainly much stronger than

that of Belem, but wholly unfit to prevent the passage
of any large vessel of war, or to resist land attack.

There another small fort near the bar at the entrance

of the southern channel. This fort circular, and
called the Bugia. In the centre
                                 lighthouse, with

a  revolving light. This also as fort good for

nothing. accompanied Dom Fernando and his minisI
ters to examine the entrance of the Tagus, which was

said to be deteriorating. In the northern channel,

during the heavy south-west gales, which are very

prevalent, there    very heavy broken sea, which at
                  is
                      a
                                                                      is
                                                                                         a
times cannot be passed without great danger. The

strength of these gales when at their utmost extra

ordinary. The waves break with tremendous violence

on the shore, and carry the sand in vast masses to

considerable distance inshore, so as to render the soil

perfectly barren on the north side of the entrance.

These sands extend for several miles, and the whole

coast covered with it. At low water, in some places,
       is
                                                         a
                                                                            is
they are dry during the ebb for mile and upwards.

   The port of Lisbon properly speaking                                                                                     at the

custom house, which immediately adjoins Blackhorse

Square. It consists of nothing more than an open

roadstead, where all the mercantile vessels lie at their

anchors, and are loaded and unloaded by means of

lighters, at great delay and cost, and with frequent
interruptions from heavy gales of wind but rarely
I

             is
                                                           a

                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                            it
happens that the vessels suffer any material damige,

as the mouth of the river, although about seven miles

wide,  never seriously agitated. Docks or landing

jetties might be made here with considerable advan

tage to the trade. At the request of the Government,

   prepared some plans upon moderate scale. Docks
328 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE. *

also might have been made in the bay to the westward,
although it would have involved the removal of the

custom house, which would, however, be a great im

provement. The naval dockyard and Admiralty are
close by, and, in fact, form part of the west side of

Blackhorse Square. It is a miserable place, and con

sists of a dry dock, two or three building slips, with a

ropery, and some warehouses, all in the most antique

fashion, and supplied with cranes, tools, &c., of the last

century. In fact, it required to be wholly remodelled
and removed to the bay above mentioned. The Go

vernment has since then parted with this bay to a
private company, which has nearly filled it up, and
propose to convert it into building ground. As the

Great Eastern and Northern Railway terminates on the
east side of the custom house, docks in connection

with it might be made between it and the custom house,

and as these are so obviously wanted, it is not impro
bable that they will be made some time hence; but,
unfortunately, from some cause or another, the rail

ways have been mismanaged, and the Government has

no funds to undertake any great works itself.

   The roadstead for large foreign vessels of war is
situated about a mile and a half lower down, nearer to

the southern shore, where there is ample depth ot

water, and where they are completely out of the way

of the merchant vessels.

    The channel, from the entrance at Belem to Black-

horse Square, is about three miles long, and from two

to two and a half miles wide. It then branches out to

about seven miles wide, and continues more or less of

about the same width for nine or ten miles, when it

contracts to a mile, so that it may be readily imagined

that the harbour is one of the finest and most spacious

in  AEutroLpiesb, oanlwaIysveisxicteepdtintghe  that of Vigo.
                                                  collection of
                                                                 royal  state

carriages, which, without doubt, is the finest and most
     A PORTUGUESE BULL FIGHT.      329

I Iextensive anywhere.
     think counted nearly fifty,

gilt and decorated with the royal arms in the most

elaborate manner. Upon the panels are very beautiful
paintings executed by first-rate artists. Some of these

carriages are above two centuries old ; and it is curious

to observe, that whilst the decorations are most elegant
and finished in the highest style of art, the ironwork,
springs, &c, in many of these are of the rudest de

scription.
   The Sunday after my arrival there was a grand bull

fight, which Dom Fernando and some of the royal
princes honoured with their presence. These bull
fights are totally different from those of Spain. Here
the bulls have their horns capped with large bosses of

wood, so that they can do no harm, whilst, on the

other hand, they are never killed. Instead of being
tortured with barbed arrows and spears by a host of

banderilleros and picadores, and when thoroughly ex
hausted and worn out killed by the matador, they are

encountered by about a dozen stout and most active

men, accustomed to the fight. These grapple with the

bull, and master him by main force, and pin him down
to the ground, and some of the most powerful and
skilful will, of a sudden, seize the bull by the horns,

and throwing their whole weight upon the animal,
completely roll him over, when he becomes perfectly

helpless. This is a great feat, and is most enthusiasti
cally applauded. But notwithstanding their strength

and activity, the bull-fighters frequently get knocked

about a good deal, and receive heavy falls and bruises, but

they never get tossed, and are seldom severely hurt. The

sight is by no means disgusting, cruel, or barbarous, like
those of Spain. Indeed, there is a good deal of fun in

it, and at times you cannot help laughing heartily, and
generally go away much pleased. After every fight,

the men came forward, and were handsomely rewarded

by Dom Fernando and the audience.
330 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

   There still exist the remains of many fine convents
and churches ; of some the building had never been
finished. When monastic institutions were abolished
these buildings became the property of the State, and
have since been sold to the public and converted to

different purposes ; some to manufactories, others to bar
racks, others to domestic residences. The inmates have
been dismissed, with moderate pensions, and thrown out
upon the world. The property brought little to the
State ; and as they were in a great measure founded by
the charity of private individuals, to which the State

had no right, it would have been better to have allowed
them to die a natural death. Religion has gained no
thing, the State little or nothing, while gross super
stition has degenerated into scepticism and infidelity.

All violent changes have an opposite result to that

desired. The roots of old institutions once torn up, it
is difficult to substitute a new plant to succeed them.

It would be better if such important changes could be

made gradually ; but, unfortunately, the old genera
tion, strong in possession, and forgetful of the times
in which they live, will listen to no alteration, and

cling firmly to the past, as if it must endure for ever.

The new generation, born under different circum
stances, have no respect for old institutions, and re
gardless of what is good in them, will listen to no
compromise, and are never satisfied until they have
rooted them out altogether.

   There can be no doubt that the institution of con
vents and monasteries was of great service to the world
in the middle ages--in preserving the learning of
past times, in teaching the ignorant, in distributing
alms amongst the poor, and in healing the sick. They
curbed the ambition, and controlled the violent passions
of the barbarous feudal lords, who considered that the
world was made for them alone, and gratified their
lusts at the expense of the unfortunate people over
LISBON TO OPORTO.  331

whom they ruled. No power but that of religion could
have controlled them. They felt its wondrous influence,
and were told in stern, unmistakable language that
there was a hereafter, and that the great God who

governed the world would surely visit their sins with
condign punishment, unless they sincerely repented of
their wickedness, and prayed for His forgiveness. We

must therefore be grateful for the services which reli

gion, under its peculiar forms and ceremonies, rendered
in those days ; and although abuses by degrees crept in,

yet these might have been remedied by much milder

measures. The monasteries and convents, however,

served their purpose ; but now they are gone, and it is

to be hoped that as the world becomes wiser and more
enlightened the great Creator will be worshipped in a

purer and simpler manner.

  IHaving heard so much of the filthiness of Lisbon,

was most agreeably disappointed to find it so much
the reverse. With the exception of the old part of the
town, to the westward of Blackhorse Square, and which
was filthy enough, few cities, certainly not London,
were cleaner than Lisbon at the time of my first visit
in 1855. The streets were broad and straight, well

lighted and watered, and the buildings regular and
handsome. The police certainly was not the most

Ieffective, but still the town was safe.
      left Lisbon about four o'clock in the afternoon, in a
fast steamer, full of passengers, and after a fine passage

of sixteen hours, with only a moderate swell ahead --
which, however, made most of the passengers sick -- we
arrived off the bar of the Douro at six the following

morning, when a pilot came on board, and we crossed

the bar and proceeded up to the town quay, about two

Imiles from the entrance of the river ; was recom

mended to the Peninsular Hotel, situated in the higher
part of the town. This was entirely a Portuguese
establishment and extremely rough, where you boarded
332 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Iand lodged at so much per day. At the table d'hote

made acquaintance with a fine old Peninsular veteran,
Colonel Owen, formerly attached to the Duke of Wel

lington's army, where he was constantly employed on

outpost duty, and he necessarily saw a great deal of hard

service. He was a fine-looking man, six feet high, and

seventy years of age, with a determined countenance,
and full of fire and energy even at that advanced

age. He possessed a good deal of talent, had studied

much, spoke the Portuguese like a native, and was an

Iexcellent writer both in that language and his own.
   found him a very agreeable, intelligent companion,

and we soon became well acquainted with each other,

which was the more agreeable as he knew well and

had frequently served with Colonel Somers Cocks, a
distant connection of mine, who was a distinguished
officer and favourite of the Duke of Wellington. Colonel

Cocks, much to the regret of the Duke, was killed at

the siege of Burgos Castle. Owen knew his whole

Ihistory, and at my particular request wrote a complete

and very interesting memoir of him, which privately

printed. Owen was almost my constant companion,

and having long resided at Oporto, knew all the prin
cipal merchants in the place, both English and native,

and was much liked and respected. He introduced me

Ito several, but being upon public business, namely, the

improvement of the port, which all desired, had no

need of introductions, for the principal inhabitants

called upon me and invited me to their houses ;

amongst others may be mentioned Messrs. Lambert,

Sandeman, Herries, and others, the principal wine
merchants of the place, who paid me the greatest atten

tion and hospitality.

  I lost no time after my arrival in proceeding to

Iexamine the port, and to consider what was best to
be done.  soon discovered its defects, which were

the exposed and dangerous nature of the bar at the
                       OPORTO.                                                           30.3

entrance of the Douro, the depth of water over it

being scarcely 10 feet at low water of spring tides, the

tides rising only from 6 to 7 feet ; the conformed and
circuitous channel both within and without the bar, in

which there were several rocks ; and the prevalence
during three-fourths of the year of strong westerly

winds from south-west to north-west. Moreover, during

heavy floods the outgoing current was so strong that
it carried all before
aI                     frequently tearing vessels from

                    it,their anchors, driving them to sea, or wrecking them
in the harbour. From these different causes the bar
                                         ;
could only be attempted during the flood or ebb for
                                I
                                                                                      ;entering or departing during the most moderate

weather, and then only by vessels drawing 12 to

14 feet at spring tides. From all these combined

causes the harbour of Oporto might be said to be

hermetically sealed for three-fourths of the year, and
frequent instances have occurred of vessels having

made the passage to the Brazils and back again, whilst

others have been beating about the offing waiting for

a favourable opportunity to cross the bar and equal

time was lost by those vessels that were waiting,

laden in the port, to go to sea. And the mails for

Oporto, the second city in the kingdom, frequently

had to be delivered at Vigo, 60 miles farther north,

and to be transported thence by land, which occa

sioned the loss of one or two days. In consequence of

these serious disadvantages the trade naturally suffered

materially.

   In order to remedy these defects, drew up a plan
by which proposed to carry out two piers-- one on the
ridge of rocks on the south side, and another on the north
--in such direction that the entrance between them,

which was to be 500 feet wide, should be least exposed

to the prevailing storms and the space between the

piers on the inside of the entrance should be wider
than the entrance itself, so that any swell which might
334 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENN1E.

Ienter would diminish as it proceeded up the harbour.
   also proposed to remove the rocks both inside and
Ioutside, and to strengthen the channel. By this means
    expected that the bar would be lowered about

5 feet ; so that at high water of spring tides there

would be about 20 feet, and a vessel drawing 18 feet

could enter at springs, and 16 feet at neaps. The ex

pense of these works was estimated at about 400,000/.

This no doubt would have been a very great improve

ment, and worth the money, although at times even
with this expenditure the bar would not be approach

Iable either way.                explored the adjacent

   Under these circumstances,

coast in order to ascertain whether another and better

place for a harbour could not be found, and at Matto-

Izenhas, about three miles farther, found that there

was a detached reef of rocks, 2000 feet long, lying about

a quarter of a mile distant from the shore, and between
it and the shore there was a depth of from 25 to

50 feet at low water. This reef had been observed by
others before me, and it had struck them that an excel

lent harbour might be made. As this also lay within

Imy instructions, I made a design for a harbour; but

upon maturely considering the subject, thought it

would be scarcely safe to make a close harbour at this

point, as, from the great quantity of sand which lay

Ialong the coast, there was a chance of its filling up.

therefore proposed to make it open : that is to say,

to construct a breakwater along the line of the rocks

as far as they reached, and as much farther each way

as might be considered advisable. In fact, this break

water might be extended so as to make a magnificent
asylum harbour for the largest vessels of any class ; and

by making an open landing pier within the breakwater,

vessels could take in and deliver their cargoes, and

send them to Oporto by rail, when vessels could not

pass over the bar of the Douro.
                          oroitTo.                    335

  IAs there was plenty of fine granite on the spot, and

labour could be obtained comparatively cheap, con
sidered that for the sum of 500,000/. an excellent har

bour might be made here with a double entrance, and

as there would be a free passage for the current both

ways, no sand would lodge within the breakwater. In

fact, the current, being confined, would force out the

sand and make the harbour deeper, so that at low

water (spring tides) there would never be less than
from 25 to 30 feet in the shallowest part of the

northern entrance, and above 50 feet at the southern.

This place appeared, and, in fact, was so much better

and more advantageous in every respect than Oporto,

that, considering the increased cost would not exceed
I100,000/.,
             strongly recommended it in preference

to expending 400,000/. on the old entrance. Still,

if the Government thought it advisable to improve

the entrance of the Douro, to some extent this

might be done advantageously by the expenditure of
about 150,000/. Both the King and the Government

approved of my plan for the breakwater and landing

pier at  the Secars Rocks, near     Mattozenhas, and the
Finance
         Minister --Fontes --gave   me an order in writing

to provide the necessary apparatus, and to commence
the work immediately. But soon after, the Govern

Iment being changed, the whole was stopped, and no

thing material has been done since, although, believe,

some attempts have been made by the Portuguese

Board of Works to blow up the rocks at the entrance

of the Douro, with very little effect ; and as funds are
very scarce, it is probable that nothing of consequence

will be effected for a long time, which is the more
to be regretted, as meanwhile the trade of Oporto

suffers most materially.                 of

IHaving completed     my investigation  to    Oporto  har
bour,    prepared to    return direct        Lisbon,  and

report to the Government the results of my exami
336 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIB.

Ination, when received a telegraphic message say

ing that the Government wished me to examine the

harbour of Viana, some thirty miles farther north,

also that of Aveiro, twenty miles farther south, and

that of Figuera, the mouth of the Mondego, about
twenty miles south of Aveiro ; and that they would

Isend a small vessel of war to take me to those places.

   therefore determined to await the arrival of the

war-steamer, which came two days afterwards. It

was not above 200 tons, mounting three or four
small guns, and commanded by a lieutenant of the

IPortuguese navy, having with him about thirty men.
   embarked and proceeded at once to Viana, which
we reached about three o'clock in the afternoon. There

being a heavy swell, we could not enter the port, and
a pilot boat with six rowers was therefore sent out to

take us ashore, where we were received by the autho

Irities. As our time was limited, immediately pro

ceeded to examine the harbour, which was formed by

the river Scina, the entrance to which was at times

very dangerous, from the same causes as those already
described as existing at the bar of the river Douro,

namely, a shallow, much-exposed bar, little tide, tor

Ituous channel, and exposure to a heavy swell during
the prevailing westerly winds.  observed, however,

that there was a long reef of rocks running parallel to

the channel nearly as far as the bar, and that by erect

ing a breakwater upon the reef, for which there was

plenty of stone adjacent, the current, instead of spread
ing over the rocks and losing its force, might be con

fined, and thus act more effectively upon the bar
and deepen it several feet; and, further, by this

means the entrance channel would be protected, and

very little swell could get in. Thus the principal

defects of the entrance would be remedied ; and the

Ismall depth of water at the quays could be increased
by dredging.  consulted the pilots and the practical
            VIANA-- FIGUERA.

men of the place, as I always do (for from experience
they generally have a knowledge of the subject),
Iand it was satisfactory to know that their opinions
entirely coincided with mine.  accordingly made my

notes, and returned on board the vessel in the evening

about eight o'clock.
   The days being long, and low water in the harbour,

Iit gave me a very good opportunity of examining it.

     had occasion to visit Viana subsequently. It is

a very pretty little commercial town, surrounded by a
rich, thriving country; it does a good deal of trade,

and is therefore very prosperous, there being some

wealthy merchants and a good deal of property in the

place. The valley through which the Scina flows is

very beautiful and fertile, surrounded by mountains

varying from 2000 to 7000 feet high. The large
village of Scina, about twelve or fourteen miles above

Viana, is particularly picturesque. It is situated in a

delicious country, abounding in corn, wine, and oil,

Iand apparently wanting in nothing.
As soon as  got on board the vessel weighed

anchor. The night was fine, so that we reached the

Ioffing of Figuera, at the mouth of the Mondego,
about noon the next day.       was met on landing

by the captain of the port, who had received intelli

gence of our coming, and on account of the heat we

were obliged to take refuge in his house, where he

exhibited all his plans, and the measures which had

been taken to improve the bar at the entrance, which,
upon the whole, as far as they went, were satisfactory.
After a couple of hours' rest we took a boat and

sounded the bar, upon which the water was very shallow.
There was a very extensive reservoir for tidal and fresh

Iwater within, which, under proper management con

sidered might be rendered very valuable in deepening
and scouring out the entrance, and in lowering the bar ;
but at low water there was a narrow channel, which

                                     z
338 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

was constantly changing, so that there was no good en

trance, and consequently neither the fresh nor tidal

waters could be either admitted or properly discharged ;

Ithus the quantity of water was reduced, and the effect
upon the bar considerably diminished.  therefore saw

at once that it was necessary to confine the low water

channel to some extent by slight works, composed of

osiers and faggots, extending from two to three feet
above the low water level, so that it should be confined

always to the same course ; thus the low water line

would be lowered, more tidal water would be admitted

and discharged, the surrounding lowlands, which were

frequently flooded, would be better drained, and the
Ibar improved.
                observed also that the channel at the

Ientrance was too wide, and that consequently it was

much exposed to the swell during westerly gales.
therefore proposed to reduce the width of the entrance

to a certain extent ; by this means a greater quantity of

water would be admitted and discharged, the bar would

Ibe reduced, the drainage improved, and a less quantity

of swell would be admitted ; when explained my
views to the captain of the port, who was a very

intelligent person, he quite agreed with me.

Having finished my examination here, we embarked

Iat sunset and proceeded to Lisbon, which we reached

on the following morning, when took my leave of the

commander of the vessel and his officers, who had
treated me most kindly, for which I felt very grateful ;
I wanted to make a present of some champagne, but
Ithis was most politely declined.
                                   therefore renewed

Imy thanks, and went on then to the Braganza hotel.
   next day called upon the Finance Minister, Fontes,

and Vicomte de Luz, the chief officer of the Board of

IWorks, reported generally what had done, and said
Ithat would proceed to England at once, and send

Imy plans, estimates, and reports as early as possible.
   accordingly left two days afterwards, and reached
          VISIT TO DOM PEDRO.      339

England in the middle of June, after an absence of

I Ibetween six and seven weeks.

   When was in Portugal had a good deal of con

versation with M. Fontes about their railways. He

said that they had already given a concession for them

to an English company, Messrs. Shaw, Waring, and

Co., of whom the Government was now desirous if
possible of getting quit. M. Fontes also talked to

me about their financial affairs, and said that they
had had a good deal of trouble with our Stock Ex
Ichange.
          did not know the precise cause of this
at the time, but it was afterwards explained to me

that the English Stock Exchange would not allow
their funds to be quoted in the English money market

in consequence of the Portuguese Government having
reduced the interest of the last Portuguese loan with
out the consent of the subscribers, so that unless this

was remedied, it would not be possible to raise another

loan in England. I saw the full force of this, and told

the minister frankly my opinion, which he appeared to

take very well, for he then said that he wished me to

lay out a line between Coimbra and Oporto, and gave

me instructions accordingly.
In the month of August, Dom Pedro, the heir apparent

to the throne, and his brother, Dom Louis, paid a visit

to our Queen at Osborne House, Isle of Wight, and
Count Lavradio, the Portuguese minister in London, re

commended me to go there to pay my respects to his
Ifuture majesty.
                  therefore went, and was honoured

with an audience on board Her Majesty's yacht, which

was lying off Osborne, and in which Dom Pedro and

his brother were living at the time, as the Queen
did not wish them to be on shore, on account of the

prevalence of the smallpox in the vicinity. Dom Pedro

and his brother received me very courteously, and

we had a great deal of conversation about Portuguese

affairs, particularly concerning the various engineering

                               z2
.MO AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

works that he wished to see carried into effect, such as

railways, harbours, docks, &c, and he said that until
these were done Portugal could not be on a par with
other nations. He also very kindly invited me over
Ito Portugal again.
                     took my leave and returned to
ISouthampton, where dined with Count Lavradio at
Radley's hotel, and then returned to London. It

should be added that Dom Pedro attained his majority
on the 15th of September, when he was crowned.

  As soon as I got my harbour plans and reports ready,
I determined to go over and present them in person
Iafter the coronation. As had been commissioned

by the Government to make the surveys and estimates

for the proposed railway between Coimbra and Oporto,

Iand consult two other English contractors about making

railways in Portugal, went to Messrs. Peto and Betts,

who said that they would be happy to undertake them,

provided that they could make proper arrangements

with the Government, and that they did not interfere

with any other contractors or companies who were then

employed ; and that in order to ascertain the Govern

ment views,  they  would  send over their agent, Mr.
Giles, with               had previously agreed with
             me.   As I

Mr. Cheffins to make the survey of the line between

Coimbra and Oporto, he preceded me with his staff, while
Mr. Giles went to Lisbon with me in the Royal Mail
Company's vessel the ' Trent,' leaving Southampton on

the 9th September, 1855.

IAfter a fine passage we reached Lisbon on the morn
ing of the 14th of September.  immediately presented

myself to M. Fontes, the Finance Minister, and the

Duke de Saldanha, President of the Cabinet, and deli

vered my plans, which were well received, and tickets
were sent to us to visit the various ceremonies of the

coronation.

   It happened just before our arrival that the Govern

ment and the English contractors of the Great Eastern
CORONATION FESTIVITIES.  341

Railway from Lisbon to Santarem, who had been quar

relling for some time past, came to an open rupture,
and the Government took possession of the whole of

the works and all the materials, machinery, and plant,
with an armed force, turned the Company adrift, and
would have nothing further to do with them. The
contractors complained to the British representative,
Mr. Ward, Charge d' Affaires, who was very indignant

at this summary mode of treating his countrymen ; and
M. Fontes was equally indignant at the way in which

the Company had behaved ; but more of this hereafter.

In the meantime the coronation took place, and a very
pretty sight it was. We had the usual demonstrations
of fetes, reviews, illuminations, salvos of artillery, &c.
To heighten the spectacle a British fleet of five line-of-

battle ships was sent over to do honour to the occasion.

These fetes lasted for three days, and no business was

Idone ; but in the mean time had the honour of being

presented to the king at the great palace of the Ajude;

Iand when M. Fontes returned to his office again,

called upon him and presented Mr. Giles, Messrs. Peto
and Betts's agent. Afterwards, when Mr. Giles had left,

M. Fontes commenced talking to me about their dispute
with Shaw, Waring, and Co. He spoke very tem

Iperately on the subject, and said that justice should be
done to them. I said that did not wish for a moment
Ito defend them ; in fact, did not know the merits of

the case on either one side or the other. At the same

Itime, said that it would be far better to arrange with

them amicably ; and if they could not agree, they

should settle accounts and dissolve the agreement ; as

until this matter was satisfactorily concluded, it would
be impossible to get any fresh English contractors of

respectability to finish the works, or form a new
English company, or indeed to raise any money in
England, which the Government at that time wanted
to do. Moreover, it was desirable above all things to
312 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENN1E.

arrange matters with the English Stock Exchange, and

until the affair of Shaw, Waring, and Co. had been

settled this could not be done. These arguments

appeared to have much weight with the minister, who
replied,, that he would think them over ; that he was

desirous of coming to an amicable settlement; that

he had very little   doubt but it would be ultimately
arranged properly ;
                     and that when Mr. Giles and I re

turned from our examination of the country, he would

be glad to see us again.
( 343 )

    CHAPTER VIII.               r

Sceveys in Portugal and Tunis.

After visiting, with a great deal of pleasure, Batalha,

by far the finest ecclesiastical edifice in Portugal, we
reached Coimbra, than which, with its environs, it

is difficult to conceive a more beautiful prospect.
The town, with its numerous churches and academical

buildings rising from the opposite shore of the Mon-
dego, and situated in a rich fertile plain, backed by
the lofty and picturesque hills of Busaco, clothed
with wood to their summits, with a fine old bridge
in the foreground, while the Mondego is seen winding
through the valley until it is lost in the sea, which
forms the distant horizon, altogether made a picture

Iwhich, for loveliness, was unsurpassed by anything

have seen in Portugal. We found here, a rare thing
at that time in Portugal, a clean, comfortable little
hotel, near the Rocio, where Mr. Cheffins and his

assistant had arrived before us. We accordingly made
preparations to start next morning at six o'clock, on
horseback, to explore a line along the coast to Oporto.

    We started punctually at six, and crossed the valley
of the Mondego, which is here about three miles wide,

and is quite flat. It has a rich and fertile alluvial

soil, but is frequently inundated by the floods of the

Mondego, so that the roads, such as they were, viz.

extremely bad, were formed by rough causeways raised

3 or 4 feet above the level of the adjacent land. In
fact, at the time of my visit there were no roads

worthy of the name in Portugal, except the road above
344 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

mentioned, from Cairegado to Coimbra; and upon this,
what was still more extraordinary, a regular four-horse

mail-coach, like those of England, had been just esta
blished for the first time to run from Lisbon to Coimbra,

at the rate of about seven miles an hour. Another

similar road had been commenced from Oporto to
Braga, and had been carried only a few miles. In

fact, unless you had seen and visited Portugal you
could hardly have conceived such a state of things

possible. All the other roads were nothing but mere

horse-tracks, in the most wretched state imaginable, full

of holes and great stones, so that you could seldom
go faster than a walking pace without danger of
breaking your neck at every step, except in those
parts where the track lay through forests and open
plains. Over these the rude bullock carts jolted up
and down at about the rate of half a mile an hour,

and the creaking of the axles might be heard two or
three miles off. As for inns, for the most part there

were none, and the wearied traveller had to carry

everything with him, and take refuge in some miser
able cottage full of filth, which he was obliged to clear

away before he could establish himself with anything
Iapproaching to comfort.  had heard of this before
Ileaving England, and took care to provide myself

with a light travelling-bed, and a canteen with the

necessary provisions.

   Leaving Coimbra, we reached Aveiro the next
evening, after a most fatiguing journey of fifteen hours
in the saddle ; during a great portion of our ride we
were exposed to a terrific storm of rain, and lost our

way, and narrowly escaped passing the night in a pine
forest. Not far from Aveiro, Messrs. Pinto, Basto, & Co.

had established a large manufactory for porcelain and

common crockery ware, which was in a very thriving
state, and the imitations of the English porcelain were

very creditable, as well as the artistic decorations;
PORTUGAL--AVEIRO.                                                 345

as they were well protected by high import duties
on foreign porcelain, they enjoyed a monopoly for

a time, and made considerable profits. These duties
have latterly been greatly modified, and it has not

Ibeen found worth while to continue this establishment.

It has, however, understand, answered very well for

the proprietors, who have, by this and other enter

prises, realized considerable fortunes. In fact, it was

quite evident that such an establishment, which had to

import all the materials and the fuel from England,
could not compete with the superior talent and
industry of England without extraordinary protective
duties, which are nothing more or less than a heavy tax
upon the country. Portugal is not a manufacturing

country. She has a most genial climate and generally
a rich soil, and can produce a variety of raw commodi
ties which England and the north of Europe cannot.

Portugal therefore, by exporting these articles, such as

wine, oil, fruits, cork, salt, cattle, &c., can always
realize a good profit, which will enable her to import
all other articles required at a far less cost than they

can be produced at home, besides contributing mate
rially to the State revenue. Messrs. Pinto and Basto

were not at the establishment when we visited but

their manager had received notice from them that we
were coming, with orders to show us everything, and

to give us handsome entertainment, which he did to
the very letter, and we returned to Aveiro much de
lighted with our reception. Indeed, the manager re
gretted greatly that we had not stayed there the pre
vious night, and we had known we certainly should
have done so. For although, considering all things,
we were not badly off at Aveiro, still we should have
been much better off at Messrs. Pinto and Basto's estab

lishment, and should have been saved the severe fatigue
of the last ten miles of our journey.

    The next day we started for Oporto, and passed the
a

      if

                                     it,
                                                             it,
346 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIB JOHN RENN1E.

thriving little town of Ovar, situated at the north end

of the Aveiro lagoon, but having a separate entrance
from the sea, formed by a small stream passing through
the town. Our railway passed along the base of the

hills, which was very favourable. From Ovar we con
tinued near the shore through a forest of pines for several

miles ; these pines would furnish excellent sleepers

for the railway at a very moderate cost. From the

forest we continued along the shore through most

favourable ground, until we reached the entrance of

the Douro : the distance from Ovar being about twenty

miles. From the entrance of the Douro there was a

favourable line for the railway for two miles along the

banks to Oporto, where it would have been necessary

to cross the river by a rather expensive bridge to reach

the chief part of the city. This, however, must have
been done in any case, and as all the great wine depots

or lodges, as they are called, are on the south side, and
as the wine trade of Oporto is the most important, this

would have been a great advantage ; moreover, there

is on the south side, near the entrance, a much better

position for docks.

Between Ovar and the Douro stands a rock sur

rounded by extensive sands. On this rock is a chapel,
reputed to be of peculiar sanctity, which is annually

visited by immense numbers of pilgrims. It is very

curious to see the extent to which these devotions are

carried, and the occasionally strange results. In

going one day, on foot, from Mattozenhas to Oporto

during one of these festivals, I was surprised to meet

a man walking, or rather shuffling, along in an extra

Iordinary manner, in what appeared to me to be a
sack.  immediately stopped to look at him, and

gazed on him with astonishment. Several persons,

Iapparently friends, accompanied him, and inquired
Iwhat it meant ; was informed that the person whom

I saw enveloped in a sack had, during a severe illness,
                   COIMBRA.                 317

prayed to the Saint of the church of Mattozenhas

to deliver him from his illness, promising that if he

recovered he would annually on the Saint's fete-day

walk to the church in his grave-clothes, to return his

thanks for his delivery from death. The poor fellow

seemed to be much fatigued, and no wonder, as travel

ling for two miles in such hot weather over a dusty

road in such an uncomfortable costume must have been

very severe work.

INext day we were off before daylight, and reached
our old quarters at Aveiro the same night.  soon saw

that it would be difficult to get a good line for the
railway over this district; it was too hilly and ex

Ipensive, and would have required long tunnels through
granite rocks and heavy embankments.        therefore

gave up this line, that is as far as Ovar. After leaving
Aveiro we took a new route nearer to the hills, and with

the exception of a part of the river Vouga, it was pre

ferable to the coast line formerly mentioned. The

summit near the Busaco hills was a little higher, but

there the line was shorter, and on the hill there

was plenty of fine limestone fit for bridges and any
other works. This line evidently therefore was the

best ; I ordered it to be minutely surveyed and levelled,

and the result proved that my anticipations were

correct.

We reached our old quarters at Coimbra, and having

examined the city again were much more pleased with
it than before. The University is a very handsome

building upon an extensive scale, with an excellent

library, museum, extensive lecture rooms, and a com

petent establishment of professors and lecturers. The

costume of the professors and students, although totally

different from that of our own, was very appropriate ;

and the method of teaching and conferring degrees

was extremely good, although a little too much savour
ing of sacerdotalism, but still greatly improved in this
348 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

respect to what it was only a few years before. The

city moreover was comparatively clean, and there
Iappeared to be a degree of outer tranquillity and pros
perity about it which pleased me much.                     have seen

many foreign universities, but none delighted me more
than Coimbra. After leaving Coimbra we passed

through Thomar and reached the valley of the Tagus ;

this we descended until we arrived at Santarem,

which is but an inconsiderable place ; it is situated
on the highest point of the ridge, and bounded by

precipitous rocks which abut on the Tagus, there being

a small valley on the north, also on the east and
west. Being thus isolated, it occupies an admirable

position as a fortress, and might easily be made im
pregnable ; commanding, as it does, the country all

around, if it were properly defended, the approach of
an enemy would be extremely difficult ; and if fortified

according to modern ideas, with a sufficient garrison
and provisions, it might hold its own against all comers
for almost any length of time ; in fact, it may be con

Isidered as one of the keys of the kingdom. When

it,saw its works were in very unfinished and dilapi
            a
      a                         is
dated state. From Santarem we proceeded down the

river to small place termed the White House, where

we embarked on board the steamer for Lisbon. The

hills on either side of the Tagus alternately advance

and recede but the whole scenery                           very rich, the
         ;

soil being highly cultivated to the very tops of the
hills, and in places abounding with cattle. In the flat

country, however, bordering on the river, malaria and

intermittent fever are very common, and indeed the
whole course of the Tagus requires regulating.

We reached the Braganza at Lisbon in the evening,
after rough but satisfactory journey. Mr. Giles was
a
                       a

                                                        a
now anxious to go to England, and few days after our
arrival he sent in general proposal to the Government,
on the part of Peto and Betts, for making railways,
                  SALVATIERRA.                 349

and then started in the packet for England, leaving his
assistant, Mr. O'Neil, with me, to make any further

necessary explanations. The season was getting late,
Iand we had no time to lose, for it was now nearly
the middle of October.    saw M. Fontes several

times, and he always received me very civilly, and said

that he was determined to meet Messrs. Shaw, Waring,

and Co., fairly.

Mr. O'Neil and myself then started to survey the

country for lines suitable for railways in the east and

south. After being detained for a time by heavy
rains at the White House, we reached Salvatierra,

a wretched place on the left bank of the Tagus, about
seven o'clock in the evening, fully two hours after

dark; it was a nasty pestilential hole, close by the
marshes ; however, bad as it was, we were very glad
to get there. There was no inn in the place, but

after a little inquiry we found a shopkeeper who was

willing, for a consideration, to accommodate us. We

accordingly agreed with him, and took possession ; we
found the rooms full of corn, beans, &c., which we

Isoon cleared out, swept the floors, walls, and ceiling
as well as we could, and unpacked our things.  sent

out my man for some provisions, we got a good wood

fire lighted, and after about an hour and a half had a

tolerable supper, turned into bed, and slept soundly

I Iuntil the morning. In fact, never grumbled ; took
Ithe people as found them ; they were generally very
Icivil, and did everything in their power to make us as
comfortable as possible.  always carried plenty of

cigarettes and cigars, and distributed them liberally,
not only to the men attending the horses, but also to
the people in the house and to any casual visitors that

Imight come in ; as had by this time acquired some
Iknowledge of the Portuguese language, made myself

as agreeable as possible, and in consequence every one

did the best they could to help me. The Portuguese
350 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

are a   pvreorpyerclyiv,il,asquIieatlwpaeyospled, ida, ndtheiyf  you   only treat
them                                                                   do every
                                                                 will
Ithing they can to accommodate you.
                                                                       of course

also took good care of the horses and men, and they

were so much pleased   that they never grumbled,
and would do anything
                       I required. Throughout the

whole of my journeys 1 never had a single squabble ;

we all went on merrily together, and whenever I
Icould get a good laugh always did, and this was

not seldom. We left Salvatierra at daylight, and

proceeded over a gently undulating country, and in
three days reached the old fortress of Estremoz. The
people of the district through which we were now

travelling were extremely primitive, and in one large

village, where we halted, as usual, at midday, the whole

population, it being Sunday, turned out to have a look

at us.

The country here is elevated and very well culti

Ivated. The olive-trees are planted in regular rows,

and carefully attended to, a thing had not before ob

served in Portugal, as they are generally in forests, and

left entirely to nature. The vines also were more looked

after, and some excellent wine is made here. Upon the

whole this was certainly a thriving district. We took

a ride to the ridge of mountains about ten miles to

the south, which, extending east and west, separates

this district from the southern part of the Alentejo.

They are covered with verdure to the top, afford

excellent pasture for sheep and cattle, and form a very

picturesque prospect. Estremoz is in a commanding
position, but its fortifications were in a dilapidated
state. After having spent a day here, we proceeded

over an elevated, fertile, cultivated country, to Elvas,

on the frontier. The Government had been employed

for some time past in making a good road here, and

a considerable portion had been finished, so that we

made tolerable progress, and reached Elvas soon after
                       ELVAS.  351

midday, and found a very clean, comfortable little

hotel.

   Elvas is a very strong fortress, situated upon the
summit of the ridge of hills forming the western boun
dary of the valley of the Guadiana, which winds

through the extensive valley below, about seven miles

distant, and the boundary or frontier line between
Spain and Portugal is about half way between Elvas

and the Guadiana.

The fortifications are very extensive, and upon the

whole well laid out and tolerably well kept up. There
are several large outworks, particularly that on a hill

about a mile to the north, which may be said to be the

citadel. It commands the town, being situated upon

the highest part of the ridge. The view from this is

very extensive, overlooking the dreary and bare valley

of the Guadiana, with Badajoz, the Spanish frontier

fortress, about nine miles distant ; and farther on the
bare bleak hills of Estramadura bound the horizon.

On the west you have a fine view of this part of

Portugal, whilst north and south you command the
view of this elevated ridge, which bounds the Guadiana

as far as the eye can reach.
   Having explored this part of the country, and having

satisfied ourselves that it would be difficult to get a good

line here, we turned our attention to the southward,

and again leaving Estremoz, reached the poor but con

Isiderable village of Ocana, not many miles from the
frontier.  therefore determined to stop there for the

night, and to my surprise found that there were two
Ior three small inns.
                       selected the best, and bad was
the best. I was informed that Ocana was the resort

of the worst characters of all sorts, both Portuguese and

Spaniards, who made this their head quarters, from
whence they could easily cross the frontier of either

Icountry, according as either Spain or Portugal became

too hot for them. was told that we ought to be upon
352 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

our guard, for it was not improbable that we might

be attacked in the night, or waylaid on our route the

next day, for the country through which we should

Ihave to pass was very wild and lonely. Therefore,

as is always the case, thought the best plan would

                    I

                                it,

                                          a
be to put a good face upon and to show that we had

no fear, put confidence in the people around us, and

make them friends.  therefore invited as many as            I

could get, men and women, to sort of ball, inquired

for some musicians, and found half-a-dozen with guitars,

castanettes, and tambourines, and as the inn where we

were would not hold all the guests, engaged the other
                    I
                            I
two inns also. The whole population crowded to the

balls at these inns, and visited them alternately,

danced with the women, and made myself as agreeable
as could. Wine and refreshments were not wanting,
I
  Ieverything passed off in the best manner, and nothing but

mirth and good humour prevailed. Soon after midnight
  had had enough of and the guests below, excited
                    it,

                         I
by wine, became very noisy.        told my servants, guide,

and horse-keepers to have everything ready by four

o'clock on the following morning, the horses sad

dled and the baggage packed, outside the town, and

having previously paid the reckoning, we quietly de
parted, without beat of drum, leaving our delighted
guests in the midst of their revelry, and in no disposi

tion to follow us.    By daylight   we       had travelled  five or
six miles without   encountering   any       person on the
                                                            way --

for road there was none. We laughed heartily at our

adventure, and was afterwards congratulated at having
        aI
succeeded so well, for we had had narrow escape of
being robbed, and probably something worse. We
passed through wild but not unpicturesque country,
and reached Abrantes, on the Tagus, without further
adventure, on the afternoon of the second day. This
                                             a

                                                                                       ;

                                                                         is
one of the most considerable fortresses in the kingdom,
situated in commanding position of great strength but
     a
        PORTUGAL.                                                                                            353

the works were very much neglected, and there was

scarcely any garrison. The town itself is a poor

place.
As regards the country through which we had passed

heing adapted for a railway, there was no doubt

that a good line could be made through          I it,                                                     although
                                                    I
at considerable expense the difficulty was how to
        it                                                                    ;

                      a

                                          ;
cross the main ridge which separated the valley of the

Guadiana from that of the Tagus. It certainly was

most desirable to connect Abrantes with Elvas, but the

descent from to the Guadiana valley was too rapid
still, this was only matter of expense.
                                                                                                          thought

that some more practicable gap through the ridge

might be found farther southward, but this was

obliged to leave for future investigation.

I     now determined to proceed northwards, in order to

ascertain whether line for railway could be obtained
preferable to that which we had previously examined
when returning from Coimbra.
        a
                          a

   Having slept at our old quarters at Thomar, we pro
ceeded to the banks of the Zezere, which we found to be

extremely lofty and falling rapidly to the river. We                                                         aa
                                                                                                                    by ;
proceeded for some miles along them, but the higher

we went up the river, the higher we found the hills

in fact, there was no valley except that occupied
the river, so that we had to give up all hopes of line
in that direction. However, in the course of few

days' explorations we were fortunate enough to find ana
easily practicable line for the northern railway, in the
by
direction of Oporto.

   In one of these expeditions we met Portuguese

gentleman dressed in the native costume, and attended
      his servant. He courteously saluted us in good

English, and then asked where we were going, and what

wtaoselkdedwh,iemr"e,Whdheoesirnaegid,,do"wNhyioocunhs,esnloeseef pcotuyoro-snuei,gchawtneno"ttoaaldnndd   he then
                                             ;                                                            when we
                                                                     ?                                    you shall

                                                                               2;                         a
354 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIK

sleep there :  it is  not   fit for a dog " (in which he  was
far wrong).     "     live  close by. You must come       and
Inot

not

sleep at my house, and leave as early as you like to
morrow morning." We gladly accepted his invitation.

We returned to the cottage, dressed ourselves in rather

better costume, while our new friend rode forward to

receive us. His house was something like a good farm,

surrounded by a courtyard and farm-buildings, situated
in the midst of a kind of rough park. The night was

very dark, and we had some difficulty in making our

way through the woods, and if it had not been for the

barking of the dogs, we should scarcely have found it.

However, we got there, and were most cordially re

ceived, shown into a comfortable room with a blazing
wood fire, and in about half an hour after sat down to
an excellent supper, with plenty of good wine.

   Our host was a most excellent and well-informed man

of about sixty, of the middle size, rather stout and well-
made, with a fine open countenance. His name was

Don S. de Silva. He had served in the Portuguese
army under the Duke of Wellington, and had been

engaged in several battles with the French, of which
he was very proud. He took the greatest interest in
the railways, offered every assistance in his power,

and insisted upon our making his house our home
whenever we came that way. He said that after the

war he had retired to his estate, and devoted the whole

of his time to farming, and that he passed a very active,
Ipleasant time.
                 think he said that his wife and family

were at Lisbon, where they frequently went, as they

had many friends and connections there. We were

shown into a comfortable and clean double-bedded

room, and the only thing we required to make us

thoroughly comfortable was more blankets, for the night

was excessively cold. However, I slept soundly, and

awoke next morning thoroughly refreshed. We had
an excellent breakfast, and took leave of our worthy
                                    PORTUGAL.                                           :!.->5

host with many thanks for his most hospitable enter

tainment.

We reached Thomar about midday, having travelled

over a rather better road than usual. Here we

halted at the Old Inn for a couple of hours, and
then made the best of our way over the old road to

Basquenha, before mentioned, where we slept. The

next day we hurried on by Santarem, caught the tug
boat and the steamer at the White House, and reached

the Braganza, Lisbon, the same evening, having been

absent about eighteen days ; fortunately, with the ex

ception of the first day, we had tolerably fine weather,
without which we should have had a good deal of diffi

culItyfoirngomt atkoinmgenstuicohn  a rough journey.       and                          myself
                                     that while Mr. Giles

went to Coimbra and Oporto, we sent Mr. O'Neil to

explore the line of the Tagus beyond Abrantes as far

as the frontier, in order to ascertain whether there was

any practicable line for a railway in that direction.

Mr. O'Neil, however, gave a very unfavourable ac
count of for few miles beyond Abrantes the Tagus
           it,

                      aa
                                                    a

                                                       a

                                                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                 a
passes through deep chasm, hemmed in on both sides

with steep, precipitous granite rocks, swarming with

eagles, and wild and desolate to degree. There were

scarcely any inhabitants save few shepherds, clad in

goat-skins, who lived in small cottages stuck in the
clefts of the rocks, or built upon some small patches
of ground close by the margin of the river, with

few vegetables and fruits growing round them. They
were thoroughly surprised at seeing Mr. O'Neil they

said they were never visited by strangers, and could

not conceive why he had come there. Nevertheless,

they were civil, and gave him freely the best they
had, which was very little indeed, and would scarcely

take anything in return when pressed, they said they
                                    ;

                                                                            2

                                                                       a

                                                                                     2
would keep the money for his sake, or would buy
something in remembrance of him.
356 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

The eagles appeared quite at home there, and were

seldom molested, except when they had carried off some

favourite pet-lamb or kid, or had paid a visit to the

poultry. Mr. O'Neil's report was so unfavourable that
we did not think it advisable to pursue our investiga

tions farther in that direction.

We had now pretty well explored the country

between the Tagus and the Douro for the north, and

the Tagus and the Guadiana for the east line to con

nect Portugal with Spain, and it only required that
these should be investigated to ascertain which was
Ibest. Upon my arrival at Lisbon, called upon M.
IFontes, and reported what
                                  had done. We had
also a good deal of conversation about their finances ;

arranging affairs with Shaw, Waring, and Co. ; getting
Igood contractors for making further lines; raising a
loan in England, &c.  said with all deference that

the whole of these things might be satisfactorily
settled ; but that the first and most important of all
was to arrange matters with the Stock Exchange in
England, for until this was done a loan could not be
obtained (and the Government was much in want of
money) without paying very high interest, which would
soon consume the revenues of the country. For ex
ample, their stock of 50 was only nominally quoted at
18 to    20, for which they paid 31. interest,
cent. ;                                           or 15 per
         whereas, if they settled with the Stock  Exchange,
Itheir funds would at once rise to 40 or upwards,
and thus they might borrow at 7 per cent.                    further
ventured to hint that by free trade  --that
                                       would
their import duties --the revenue
                              II                              lowering
                                         I                   be much

                                                        is,
benefited, and that their exports would be increased
in the same ratio. M. Fontes listened with much
attention, but said nothing.

Having finished my business, prepared to return to
England, and was told by M. Fontes that should have
an audience of the King.
                                  accordingly presented
VISIT TO THE KING.        357

myself, and had an audience of his Majesty Dom Pedro,

who was an exceedingly well-informed, sensible young
man, of about twenty-one, and whose sole object and
desire was the advancement and improvement of his

country, to which he devoted himself day and night.
He was exceedingly amiable and modest, and much

beloved and respected, not only by his own subjects,

but by every person who had the honour of being pre
sented to him. His Majesty received me in the most

condescending manner, entered into the subject of rail

ways, the great advantage they would be to Portugal,
the making of common roads to join them, the benefit

of free trade, and the necessity of improving agricul

ture and extending the cultivation of vines, olives, corn,

fruits, and all native produce, as well as the improve

ment of the harbours, and everything else which

would advance the prosperity of the country. He had

studied all these subjects thoroughly, and was perfectly
Iat home in them ; and with regard to the finances,
he quite agreed with me.  took my leave of his

Majesty, and he shook me by the hand, and bade me

Ifarewell, trusting that he should soon see me again.

      then called upon the Duke de Saldanha, the Presi
dent of the Cabinet and Commander-in-Chief of the

Army, a very estimable man, who spoke English very
well ; he had served under the Duke of Wellington
during the great Peninsular war. He spoke English

perfectly, and was very popular amongst his country

Imen, and always happy to see the English. When

Itold him that was about to leave the next day for

England, he said that he was very glad to hear it.

He further remarked that a Cabinet Council had been

Iheld the day before, and that should hear more of it

Ibefore the day was over.
       returned to the Braganza, packed up my things,
and was ready to leave by the packet the next day.

At nine o'clock the same evening I received a message
358 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Ifrom M. Fontes to come to him at his office.  went

there immediately, and he said he had been ordered

to proceed to England with me, to endeavour to settle
the matter in dispute between his Government and the

English Stock Exchange, and the quarrel with the

railway contractors.

  IWe started together next morning, and on arriving

in London had the pleasure of being partly instru

mental in bringing about an arrangement between the
principal holders of Portuguese stock in England and

the Portuguese Government, to their mutual satisfaction

and advantage ; also an arrangement between the Por

tuguese and Messrs. Shaw, Waring, and Co., which, as

we shall see, was not subsequently ratified. M. Fontes
returned to Portugal with considerable Mat, having re
established the credit of Portugal with their English

stockholders, and settled the railway difficulty, and it

was thought that he and his ministry had a long

and prosperous career before them. Unfortunately,
however, this turned out quite the contrary ; whether

Iit was envy at his success, or some other political cause,

   do not know, but in the spring of the following
year, 1856, Fontes and his ministry were obliged to
resign, and the Marquis de Loule, a connection of the

royal family, succeeded him. The Marquis de Loule'

was a remarkably fine, handsome man, a thorough

Igentleman, with considerable talents, of imperturbable

temper and great good humour ; know no man with
whom he might better be compared than the late Lord

Palmerston. Loule\ like Fontes, was equally desirous
of completing the railway system of Portugal.

  I continued the surveys for a line between Coimbra
Iand Oporto, and when they were completed received

a tender from Messrs. Peto and Betts, saying they
would execute the line for 10,000/. per mile, without

the land.

   As his Royal Highness the Prince Consort took con
      PORTUGUESE RAILWAYS.                                     350

siderable interest in the improvement of Portugal, and

Ias had heard indirectly that information respecting
Ithe progress of the railways would be gratifying to
him,  communicated with his Royal Highness's

Isecretary, and received a command to go to Windsor.

  went, and was received in the most affable manner.

The Prince was thoroughly acquainted with everything

going on in Portugal, and took great interest in the

mcoensfotrrutchteioninfoofrmraailtwioanysI  in that country.   He thanked
                                            had communicated,   and wished

me every success.

Towards the end of August all the plans, estimates,

and specifications of the line between Coimbra and
I IOporto were completed, and in the month of September
went over and presented them in person.                        was

Ivery kindly received by his Majesty and by his minis
ters. When I arrived, found that M. de Soveral, the

very clever Chief Secretary of the Portuguese Embassy

in London, was home on leave. He also took the

warmest interest in the establishment of railways.

The dispute with Messrs. Shaw, Waring, and Co. had

Inot yet been settled, and consequently no new arrange
ment could be made.                         had frequent meetings with the

Marquis de Loule and M. de Soveral on the subject, and

fully explained to them that it would be impossible to

get any English contractors of influence to form a new

and powerful company of English capitalists to make

Irailways in Portugal, unless this matter could be honour

ably adjusted ; and added that I thought the terms

agreed upon with M. Fontes were, upon the whole, the

best that could be adopted.

The Marquis listened with much attention to all my

arguments, and finally gave me instructions to see

Messrs. Peto and Betts and their friends, upon my

return to England, in order to ascertain upon what

Iterms they would be willing to form a new company

to complete the Northern Railway to Oporto ; and was
3C0 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

to inform him of the result, but not to commit the

IGovernment in any way. He requested me, before

left Portugal, to examine the port of Setubal, or, as the
English call St. Ubes, a little to the south of Lisbon.
I

              it
                  it,

                                     it,
                                                      a

                                                                     it
      accordingly proceeded to reconnoitre the port, and
found that was formed by river which ran a consi

derable distance into the interior. St. Ubes was situated

on the right bank of about four miles from the bar,

but the river here was so wide and shallow that was

only an estuary. The opposite side being covered

at high water, the returning ebb and flood waters were

expanded over such a wide space that the current had                               a
not sufficient force to maintain good channel, nor
did act upon the bar powerfully enough to main
a it
tain good passage over it. Moreover, the estuary was
exposed to the full effect of the south-westerly gales,
which, sweeping across the Atlantic with great violence,

send very heavy swell across the bar, rendering
it

           a
    extremely dangerous to approach, and driving a
great quantity of sand into the mouth of the river
                                                                                      ;
this would materially reduce the depth, and render
                                                                                         I
the navigation both dangerous and difficult and there
                                                                                                          ;;
was too little fresh water coming down to be of much

service in assisting the operation of the tide.                                       soon

saw what was necessary to be done to remedy to a

               not entirely to remove, these evils
agreat extent,

 I

             it if

                            it,
                                  it, a

                                                                                ;
this was confine the channel on the opposite or sea side
by low line of wicker or fascine work, in the first
instance to the level of little above half tide, and

then to raise  as required the sand would soon

accumulate behind      and thus the tidal and fresh

waters, being always confined to the same channel,

would greatly improve  and considerably lower the

bar. also thought the channel for some distance

above the town should be deepened, embanked, and

improved by dredging, and that below the town
to the bar the channel should be dredged also to
PORT WINE DISTRICT.                    361

Iassist the operation of the current.  embodied these

observations in a plan and report on my return to

Lisbon, and delivered them to the Marquis, with which

he was much satisfied.

  I now prepared to return to England, in company

with my friend de Soveral ; but as the latter was desirous

Iof breaking his voyage at Oporto, for the purpose of

ascending the Douro and visiting his estates, agreed
to accompany him. We reached Pescoa de Ragosa, a

very important place in this district, being the centre

of the port wine trade. Here is held the market

where all the port wine growers assemble at the end of

the vintage, and here come all the wine merchants from

Oporto, and make their purchases for the season. The

veritable port wine district is a very remarkable country.

It is situated on the banks of the Douro, which are here

composed of lofty, undulating hills, clothed with rich

soil, rising rapidly from the river, about forty miles

above Oporto, where the granite formation, on which

no vines will grow, ceases. The district consists of the

transition rocks above the granite ; it extends about forty
miles, as far as the cataracts of St. Joao de Pesqueira

and is about five or six miles wide, including both
sides of the valley of the Douro; one side is exposed

to the morning and the other to the evening sun, and the

reflected rays make the valley like an oven during

the summer months, so that no place could be more
advantageously situated for the development of the
vine. No trees are allowed to grow upon the hill

sides. The vines are like so many gooseberry or

currant bushes, and they are cut down almost to the

roots so that the nutriment applied to the plant may

be developed in producing the fruit to the greatest
possible extent. The vines are planted in rows,

and the intervening space is carefully weeded, so that
the whole power of the sun is concentrated upon the

vines ; and it is wonderful to see the quantity of fruit
302 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN BENNIE.

borne compared to the extent of branches and leaves.

When the vintage has been made, there are a certain

number of tasters who are appointed by the Govern
ment. These men, who neither smoke, snuff, or drink,

then examine the wine, which they do by a saucer,
much indented in the bottom, of pure silver, which
enables them to judge of the colour ; then they smella;

and taste by the touch of the tongue without drinkingI
;                                                     is is
                                                           it,
   it

          a
             is,
                        a

                    It

                              is is
any. By these three tests they pronounce the quality
of the vintage, and this, combined with the quantity,

determines the price.                said that the wine pre

pared according to certain standard for the English

market that the wine made to resemble as near

as possible vintage that has pleased the English,

who are the great consumers of port wine this done

either by mixing some old approved wine with the

new, or adding brandy. There has been great deal of

argument and doubt about adulteration.   will not

take upon myself to decide, but will say this, that aI
good vintage of port wine requires no doctoring.

   At Ragosa, after the vintage, all the great wine

merchants of Oporto assemble, and there make their

purchases for the ensuing season. All transactions are

made in cash, for the wine growers are very important

and wealthy personages. The merchants are equally

so, and take their cash with them.       heard an anec
                       it
                           is

                                      I
dote when there, which says much for the honesty of

the Portuguese. M. Sandeman, one of the wealthiest

and most important wine merchants of Oporto, went up
to the wine district after the       vintage one season, with his
                                     generally made a party of
sons and friends --for
pleasure -- to purchase wine         for the ensuing season, and

they took 15,000/. in gold to make their purchases, the

gold being carried in sacks on mules, the whole party

riding, as usual, for there were no roads for carriages.

The first night, having arrived at their usual halting-

place, just as they were sitting down to their supper, old
                        GUIMARAENS.                                   303

ISandeman said to his son, " George, hope that you

h"aYvees,tafkaethnerg,o"odsaidcarGeeoorfgethe;   mules    and the     mo"nWeye?l"l,

                                                " it is  all right."

George," said old Sandeman, "you had better go and

see." George immediately went out to the stables, and

Iafter some minutes came back in great consternation,
and said, " Father,     can't find the mules with the
            At this
money."               old Sandeman              got      in a great rage,
and said,  " George,   you shall have            no      supper until you

find them." The whole party got up at the same time,

and took lanterns and torches to look after the lost

money and mules. Away they went back several miles

on the road they had come, and there they found the

mules, which had slipped their halters, quietly feeding
by the roadside, with the bags of gold untouched.
They returned with them to the inn with much satisfac

tion, got the mules comfortably installed in their stables,
having previously relieved them of the gold bags,

which they took to their bedrooms. Now perhaps in

no other country could you have found such an example

of honesty as this. It was well known before they

started from Oporto that the Sandemans were going

up to the wine country to purchase wines for the ensuing

season ; and as they were the most wealthy merchants
of the place, it was equally well known that they would
buy the largest quantity of wine, and would take

the greatest amount of hard cash to pay for it ; there

fore, if the natives wished to make a prize, here was

an excellent opportunity to do so. But quite the con

trary, the natives were honest, and had not the least
idea of robbing, which they might have done, if so

disposed, most easily.

From this place we proceeded leisurely to Guima-
Iraens, one of the ancient capitals of Portugal. The

natives appeared different from any had seen. The

better classes were dressed in jackets, ornamented with

large silver buttons, knee-breeches, leggings, and silver
3C1 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

buckled shoes ; having over all a loose, blue cloth cloak,

and a large, conical, broad-brimmed black felt hat. It

seemed to be a place wholly sui generis, and totally sepa
rated from the rest of the world. The well-to-do people
seemed to have nothing to do but to walk leisurely

about conversing with their friends, and smoking their

cigarettes. There was no trade, no bustle, nothing, as
it were, moving ; it was one of those places where a

man disgusted with the world would wish to bury him

self. The repose was something surprising to a person
accustomed to active life. We found a pretty good inn,

and a convent with a few old nuns, who were still

allowed to live there, and who employed themselves in

preserving in a particular manner a very fine sort of

Iplum that grows in the neighbourhood. They fetch a

high price in all European markets ; bought a few to

take to England. There is a splendid old Moorish

castle outside the town, which, although in ruins, was

not in a very bad state. Upon the whole I was much

I Ipleased with the place, so totally different from any
thing had seen either in Portugal or Spain.  should

have liked much to have spent several days there, but

the inexorable time would not permit; we therefore

set out the next day for Braga, and passing through

the beautiful environs, which are a perfect garden,

we continued our way through a well-cultivated and

picturesque country, and reached Braga soon after

middav.

Braga, also one of the ancient capitals of Portugal, is

a handsome town, more modern than Guimaraens, also

much more lively, and surrounded by a rich, fertile, pic

turesque country. It is well built, with handsome streets,

and squares upon a moderate scale, with an appearance

of quiet imposing dignity. It is the residence of many

old families, who seem to enjoy their otium cum dignitate,

and to be wholly independent of the world. They
appeared to be above the grovelling pursuits of trade, fur
               RETURN TO ENGLAND.                                            365

there was certainly little appearance of business about,

yet withal we could not help admiring its clean,

comfortable, well-to-do appearance.

From here we proceeded over a tolerable road

towards Viana, the sea being about a mile distant;

and the intervening space, composed of rich alluvial
soil, was well cultivated. We passed several granite

crosses, erected near the village churches, one of which

was extremely  elegant,   beautifully worked in  a   species
               style.                            so   elabo
of Corinthian            I never saw granite

rately worked as in this part of Portugal, namely,
the district between the Douro and the Minho ; in

fact, they have no other stone but granite, and no
other people work it so well ; but then the natives

are the most docile and industrious in Portugal. They

are never idle ; constantly at work, either abroad or at

home, and saving money. Large numbers emigrate to

the Brazils, where by their energy and industry they

may acquire ample fortunes, and return home to their

native country, where they buy an estate, build a hand

some house, and spend the remainder of their lives in

tranquillity and enjoyment.
  IOn

found
trheaatchIinhgadVtiogow,aiat fttewropadsasyisngforthtrhoeugshteaVmiaenra. ,  I

could not help remarking the superior beauty of the

ISpanish as compared with the Portuguese women, a

thing could not well understand, as the personal

appearance of the men is about the same in both coun

tries, although the Spanish peasants are apparently
more robust than those of Portugal.

  Immediately on my return I set to work to carry
out the instructions of the Marquis de Loule', and

endeavoured to obtain powerful contractors and

Iwealthy and influential capitalists who would form a
company to undertake the railways in Portugal.       fre

quently had communications with Messrs. Peto and

Betts, who with their friends were perfectly ready to
3GG AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

come forward to form a company, provided that Messrs.
Shaw, Waring, and Co. were satisfactorily settled with.

In these negotiations M. de Soveral was indefatigable,

and of immense service, as he was perfectly acquainted

with the views of his Government, and knew what

would be acceptable to them, and what they would

not agree to. At last, towards the latter end of

December, certain conditions stating the terms upon

which they would form a company and find the capital

were drawn up and signed by Messrs. Peto and Betts,

and seven other well-known capitalists, and were sub

mitted to the Portuguese Embassy, to be transmitted

to the Government for their approval. Towards the

end of January, 1857, they answered that they

generally approved of the conditions proposed, with one

or two exceptions, which Peto, Betts, and Co. agreed to

alter. The Government then sent an official letter

to Count Lavradio, Ambassador in London, requesting

that Sir Moreton Peto and myself would come out

to Lisbon immediately, to finally conclude the arrange
ments, in order that a Bill might be prepared without
                                                                   In
dMealracyh,to1b8e57l,aiId   before the   Portuguese   parliament.
                           accordingly    proceeded  to Lisbon.
It is not my intention to enter into the unfortunate

dGiospvuetrensmebnettw--eednispuPteesto    and  Co. and the    Portuguese
                                         which   terminated  in the aban

donment of what would have been for Portugal a great

Inational work. Doubtless, as in all these cases, there

were faults on both sides ; and believe that one of the
main causes of the failure, on behalf of Messrs. Peto and

Betts, to carry out the works, was that their resources

were swallowed up by a great variety of speculations,

some of which, as we have seen, did not in the long run

Iturn out very profitable, and they were really unable
to undertake them.         will proceed to relate briefly the
only other occasion on which I was connected with that

firm.
                     TUNIS.                               307

  But first I may mention that I completed my work on
I' British and Foreign Harbours ' (which had occupied

what little leisure could command during some years)

in 1854,  hPalvyimngoupthrevBioreuaslkyw, aitner1. 847I,  published a mono
graph on                                                  may also add, that
conjunction with the late Mr. John Plews, I constructed
a considerable extension of the Cardiff Docks for the

trustees of the Marquis of Bute ; as it is fully described

Iin the above work, I need not here further refer to it.

   In the early part of 1859 was asked to proceed to

Tunis, in company with one of Messrs. Peto and Betts'

agents,  to examine  into the  feasibility of             cIonasctcrourcdtiinngglya
railway   from the   Goletta   to the city.

started in March, and having embarked on board a

French steam-packet, reached Tunis after a four or

five days' passage, including a stoppage, for some un

explained reason, of two days at Philippeville.
The view of the Bay of Tunis cannot be compared in

picturesque effect with that of Bona, which we had just

left ; still there is something wild and striking about it.

On the east the bay is bounded by a lofty ridge of bare

irregular hills, with a narrow strip of level marshy
land bordering the bay. On the west it is bounded by
the celebrated peninsula of Carthage. In front, to the

south, there is the Goletta, or channel to the Lagoon,

surrounded by the custom house and a small town, and

beyond is the Lagoon, extending about six miles, at the

farther end of which is the city of Tunis, seated upon

a gentle eminence, bristling with minarets, and a lofty
chain of hills in the background, the whole having a
wild, uncultivated appearance, so that at first sight you

were puzzled to conceive whence supplies could be ob

tained for feeding the metropolis of the kingdom. We
got clear of the Turkish customs after a good deal of
delay, not from any fastidiousness of the officials, for

they were easy and good-natured enough to let anything
pass, but from the confused and blundering manner in
368 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

which all business is transacted. Everything was then
bundled into a large boat, which was also laden with

merchandise of all kinds, as much as it would hold. We

then entered, along with a Colonel West, who had come

out upon a shooting excursion, and set sail for the

capital across the Lagoon, which was about six miles

long and four or five miles wide. The channel was
nearly in the centre, and had five or six feet of water.
We passed numerous flocks of wild geese, ducks, cranes,
and flamingoes, disporting themselves in the water. We

reached the landing quay of Tunis, outside the walls,

about two or three in the afternoon, and immediately
proceeded to the only hotel in the place, kept by a
Frenchman, and, upon the whole, it was very clean
and comfortable ; but before we could get to it we had

to wade through a sea of filthy mud in a narrow lane

that was scarcely 12 feet wide, bounded by the city
wall on the one side, and a row of miserable buildings

on the other, showing little more than bare walls, the

windows looking into small courts on the inside, which

were approached by solid well-barred gateways. It was

nearly dark before we got installed in our new domicile,

and then we dined at not a bad table d'hote in the

French fashion, passed the evening agreeably, and went

to bed early, rather tired after the kind of knocking

about we had had during the day. Fortunately the

weather was fine after the great quantity of rain which

had lately fallen. The next day was fine also, and after

an early breakfast we got a carriage with a couple of

horses, and drove along the west side of the Lagoon to
the Goletta in order to select the
nothing could be more favourable,   line  for the  rbaeiliwnagy--;
                                    the   country
to use a homely phrase -- as flat as a pancake, and there

fore required no particular exercise of the engineer's art.

Having so far completed our investigation we ad

journed to the examination of the ruins of Carthage, of

which scarcely anything remains, except the cisterns
CARTHAGE.  3(19

for supplying the city with water, which are of massive
masonry, the walls being lined on the inside with a
thick coat of stucco, which was glazed, and presented

an excellent, smooth surface. These cisterns were

covered with arches, so that the water was preserved
from the action of the sun, and was thus always kept
cool and in the best state for use. The water was
brought, by means of an aqueduct, from a fine and
plentiful spring close by the mountain of Kegouan,
about 40 miles distant, and was carried with the requi
site inclination by means of tunnels pierced through
the hills, and extensive lines of arched aqueducts
across the intervening valleys, some of these aqueducts
being above 60 feet high, and the total length of the
tunnels several miles ; in fact, the whole aqueduct was
a series of tunnels and bridges about 40 miles long,

and is certainly a most extraordinary work, not to be
surpassed by anything of the kind in existence at the

present day. The conduit for the water was about

2 feet 6 inches wide and 3 feet deep. In this single
example we have nearly all the improvements of modern

times, namely, excellent water, an ample supply, and
covered storing reservoirs. The water required no
filtering, but it has not been ascertained whether it
was distributed to each house ; probably not ; most
likely it was delivered to the fountains, where the
natives sent for it. As baths are known to have
existed at Carthage, it is probable that the water was
supplied direct to them as well as to the houses of the
more wealthy citizens and to the palaces. Iron pipes
were not then known, and consequently they were
obliged to carry the water on aqueducts, otherwise
they had no mean of resisting the hydraulic pressure.

   Besides these cisterns, one cannot make out distinctly
any other remarkable buildings ; but there are plenty
of remains of foundations of walls, some of them of
masonry and some of them of brickwork, showing great

                                                                                                2B
370 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

solidity ; there are also great quantities of pottery
and fragments of marble sculpture lying about. As
to the celebrated arsenals and docks, it is still more dif

ficult to point out satisfactorily their extent, form, and
position ; but from the accounts we find in ancient
writers, and from the well-known recorded fact that

the Carthaginians were a great commercial as well as
warlike nation, it is evident that they must have pos
sessed the means of building, sheltering, and repairing
both classes of vessels, those for commerce and those

for war. These docks and arsenals must have been
on the sea-shore; the peninsula is composed of com
paratively high land, and they could not have built
them anywhere else, for the low lands which border
the peninsula on the south side were not, so far as
we can learn, included within the walls of the city,
and it was not likely that they would have left such
important establishments as these, upon which in a

great measure their power depended, unprotected. I
repeat, therefore, and I believe it is confirmed by most

authorities, ancient as well as modern, that these docks

and arsenals were on the sea-shore ; and as they would
not have built them on the northern side of the penin
sula, which is so much exposed to the strong northerly

gales, they must have placed them on the eastern shore,

Iwhich is tolerably well protected by the opposite sides

of the bay. Indeed, walked round the northern shores
of the peninsula and carefully examined them, and could

Ifind no traces of any works having been executed there ;

but upon the eastern shore could discover traces of
considerable works. The ships of those days were
 comparatively small and drew but little water, and by
running out moles or breakwaters of loose stone into

 the sea, a sufficient space might have been enclosed
to answer the required purposes. We know that the
 ancestors of the Carthaginians did this to a great
 extent at Tyre, and we can have no reason to doubt
UTICA.                                     .171

Ithat they adopted the same system at Carthage. This

is a question still open to discussion ; but think, after
what has been stated, that the arguments are in favour
Iof the eastern shore ; and until more decisive remains
have been found elsewhere,  must adhere to my

conclusion, for we must not forget that this is the

weather shore, where all such works should be carried

out, so as to afford the greatest facility for egress and

ingress.

  IAs the Bey was not then in Tunis, determined to

make use of the interval by going to see the remains

of the ancient city of Utica, about twenty miles distant,

west-north-west. My two companions were not very

well, and therefore thought that they had better re

main at Tunis, in case anything connected with our
Ibusiness should occur ; so determined to go alone,
I Ias was told that should meet with no difficulty,
Ifor the country was perfectly safe.
                                      accordingly
hired a carriage with three excellent horses, and en

gaged a clever Frank servant, an Italian, half Jew, half

Mohammedan, who had lived many years in Tunis, and

besides English, French, and Italian, spoke the Arabic
very well also. He was a clean fellow, and was well

recommended by our vice-consul. Being told that I
should find nothing on the way, I took a good pro
vision basket and plenty of cloaks. We started soon

after noon over a wretched road, or rather open track

made by the peasants' carts, and as the weather had
been very wet the wheels of the carriage were

frequently half-way up to the axles in mud. The
country through which we passed was wild and lonely
in the extreme, not a creature to be seen. After having
driven about eight or ten miles we came to a kind of
village, or cluster of about half-a-dozen mud huts
whitewashed, where there was a sort of cafe of the
roughest kind, and close by it there was a sort of

chateau belonging to some aga or district chief, sur

                                      2B2
                AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

rounded by trees and a rude wall, the whole having a
most solitary and gloomy appearance. There we halted
about half an hour to refresh the horses, which were
tired enough, and at length we reached the caravan
serai, a solitary building two stories high, surrounded
by a high mud wall.

   It would be difficult to conceive a wilder or more
desolate spot. In front was an extensive marsh, half

covered with water, through which the river pursued
its devious course, the banks being covered with

rushes ; at the back lay the dreary country through
which we had passed; to the right the marshy plain

extended to the sea, some 10 miles distant, and to the

left it stretched as far as the eye could reach, bounded
by blue hills of considerable elevation. There was not a
soul in the house but the kanghe or master, and another
man and a boy. He welcomed me, however, very civilly,
and showed me to the upper floor by an outside stair

case; here I found two rooms with bare walls, brick

floor, a trestle for a mattress, a wooden table, and a

Icouple of rude chairs ; to my great delight there was a

chimney-place, in which soon lighted a wood fire.
The kanghe brought up a couple of tolerably clean
mattresses, two oil lamps, and some bread, and water,
which was all he had. This, however, was of no

Iconsequence, as had come provided, and after a good
Isupper, in spite of the loneliness of the place slept

soundly. As there was no road any farther, it was

 necessary to provide horses to go to Utica the next

day, which the khange said he would do. At daybreak

 we mounted, and were just about starting when we
 were joined by an aga, a fine handsome fellow, ex
 ceedingly well mounted. He was accompanied by two
 or three servants, also well mounted and armed. The
 aga saluted me very courteously, and said he was

proud to see Englishmen, and that if I was fond of

 sporting he would be most happy to see me at his castle,
       UTICA.                                                           373

and would show me some capital sport, wild boars,

Ideer, partridges, quail, &c. ; for this kind invitation

thanked him, but was obliged to decline on account

of want of time. We rode together along the marshy

plain, our horses at times being up to their knees in
water, and crossed the river by a rough stone bridge,

immediately beyond which we reached the high land

which bounds the river on the west. Here we

Iparted in the most courteous manner, and continued

Ialong the left bank for two or three miles farther,

when reached the ruins of Utica, situated at the
foot of the hills, at a height of about 30 feet above
the level of the bottom of the valley, and about

a mile distant from the left bank of the river, and

5 miles from the sea-shore, with nothing but a dreary

flat marsh intervening. Utica was originally seated

on the seashore, and was a port of considerable import

ance ; the marshes that now exist have been gradually

formed during the lapse of centuries ; and in this there

is nothing remarkable, as there are many similar

examples, even to a much greater extent, at the mouths

of rivers in different parts of the world.
   Of the city nothing now remains but portions of

the broken down walls, a square tower near the
middle, and some remains of foundations scattered

about. Nothing could be more desolate and solitary

than the whole scene, which afforded a most striking

contrast to its former magnificence ; and reflecting

       annocitenht elpcomrepmaraerdkingw,ith"            its
Iupon its                                               Alas,  present    state,
                                                                 poor   human
onnaeturceou! l"d
On my return from Utica found that His Highness

the Bey had consented to receive us at his palace,

distant about 12 miles from Tunis, on the following

day at eleven o'clock. We accordingly started off
                                                          in
about  pereigshetnteod'clotcok,thaendBegyo--t twhheore        good time, and
were                                                    was   seated in great
374 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENN1E.

state and surrounded by his officers --by our consul,
Mr. Wood, and were most graciously received. The
Bey was about fifty-five, of the middle size, rather

stout, with an open, frank, kind countenance ; he con
versed in Arabic with the consul in the most genial

manner, said he was glad to see us, and was much
pleased at the idea of having railways in his- kingdom,
about which he had heard so much ; he said he would

give us every assistance in his power, and hoped that
this would lead to other European improvements, that
would tend so much to the prosperity of his country.
After about twenty minutes of very agreeable conver
sation we retired, very much pleased with his High-
ness's courteous reception. In front of the palace there
was an encampment of about 2000 troops of all kinds,
horse, foot, and artillery, whom the Bey was in the
habit of reviewing daily.

   The remainder of the story is soon told. We
knew perfectly well that the French were very jealous
of any foreign capital or enterprise being introduced
into Tunis, that the consul was somewhat suspicious of
us, and that he and his spies were always on the
watch : we were warned of this, and advised to be very
cautious. So well was our secret kept, that the French
consul had come to the conclusion that we were nothing
but a party of ordinary travellers, and was just getting
rid of his suspicions. On the other hand, the Bey
and his Divan had agreed to grant a most favour
able concession, and there can be no doubt that the

line would have succeeded admirably in every respect.
But in an evil moment Messrs. Peto's agents discovered
that they could not make a proper report to their

employers without taking levels. In vain I represented

the extreme imprudence of such a proceeding; that
it was a mere surface line, without the slightest en
gineering difficulty, and which did not present the
least obstacle ; moreover, that the land was to be con
SERPENT CHARMEKS.  375

ceded free of all cost, and that, in short, there was
nothing which men of their experience could not
estimate accurately without taking the smallest measure
ment. They persisted in their intention, and, of course,
the moment they got out their instruments the French
consul understood the whole affair, and in an audience

with the Bey threatened him with the vengeance of

France if the concession were granted. The poor Bey

had no alternative but to submit, and there the whole

matter ended.

  Before leaving Tunis I saw all the different sights ;

amongst others, serpent charming, which is quite a pro
fession. The charmers display considerable dexterity ;
indeed, it is a profession of long standing. The
northern portion of Africa, on account of its sandy and
sultry climate, is peculiarly well adapted for the breed
ing of serpents of the most venomous kinds, and in
consequence they attain an enormous size and secrete a
large amount of poison. The bites of many of the species
are fatal, and hence it has become for ages past the
object of certain of the natives to study the habits and
characteristics of these reptiles and the antidotes to
cure any unfortunate individual who may by chance
have been bitten by them ; indeed, the Roman armies
during their campaigns in this part of the world were
always accompanied by a certain number of these serpent

charmers, and the profession exists at the present day.

You find them in Egypt and throughout the whole
of the northern part of Africa, and they not only
practise the cure of serpent bites, but also collect num
bers of them for exhibition to the multitude, to show

Itheir power over them, and by this means realize a

considerable amount of money. At Tunis saw several

of these serpent charmers, who were always surrounded
by a large crowd. They appeared to have complete
control over the reptiles ; they always kept their eyes
constantly upon them, and regulated their movements
370 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

by a wand in their hands, whilst an attendant boy kept

time by beating a small drum and blowing a pipe with
a low monotonous sound.

   I was much surprised to find the natives so very

civilized ; we walked about the town, in the suburbs,

Iand in the country, without experiencing the smallest
molestation or incivility.  was told that robberies

were very rare, and that frequently large sums of

money were sent by a single messenger on a dromedary
from Tunis to Tripoli without the least danger of being

robbed. There were scarcely any palm trees to be
                 plenty of
Iseen, but we hadinterior,  the finest dates,  which  were

brought from the            I think Tafilet.
Upon the whole was much pleased with Tunis. It is
a country possessing great natural resources of all kinds,

by which, if only properly developed, this kingdom

might be again rendered very powerful, as it was in the
time of the Carthaginians and Romans, when, it is said,

it contained above ten millions of inhabitants, whereas

at present there are little more than two millions.
         ( 377 )

         CHAPTER IX.

SURVEYS  AT ODESSA aND VIENNA  Ha11B0UR aT PONTa DBLOADA --
         RaMSOaTE -- D AO EN HaM.

IDuring the latter part of the year had some cor

respondence with the municipality of Odessa about
paving their streets and making a complete system

Iof sewers for the city ; and in the spring of the follow

ing year was requested by the municipality to come
to Odessa, and to confer with them as to the best means

of carrying these works into effect, and the cost of

doing so.

   II accordingly started for that city; but when I

arrived at Vienna could get no idea as to when the

steamer would leave for Odessa. So to pass away the

time I determined to visit the Sommering Mountain, over

which the [Imperial Elisabeth Kailway passes on the
great line from Vienna to Trieste. As that part of the
 line which crosses the Sommering Mountain was said to
be a great feat of engineering, we determined to visit
and certainly was very creditable performance. The

 inclines were very steep, and the curves very sharp and

 very numerous. Galleries were cut through the rock,
 high embankments made, and bridges thrown across
 the ravines, and the railway, having to wind round the
 sides of the mountain, was very tortuous. The works,
 however, upon the whole were not badly designed or
executed, though will not say whether better line
might not have been found. The engines used were of
 the most powerful kind.

    Having returned to Vienna we descended the Danube
and reached the Sulina mouth. This mouth of the
         it

            I
                     a
                                                                a

                                                                        it,
378 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Danube was selected as the most capable of improve
ment, and considerable sums of money have been ex
                         under the direction of Sir Charles
pended uponit a
                    it,
Hartley, an English engineer of considerable reputation.
The works designed by him consisted of two embank

ments or moles carried out from the shore, one on each
side, and nearly parallel to each other, in an E.S.E. direc

tion, for considerable distance seaward, having a good

opening between them for the entrance. These moles,
by keeping the current of the river to one course,
           to act more effectually in deepening the
enable

channel and lowering the bar. The operations of the

current are assisted by dredging. The works, under
                                                      a it,
stand, have been very successful so far, although by
                                                         is I
no means completed. An increased depth 'over the
bar and in the channel has already been obtained,

which   is      very great improvement, for on account
             a

of the continual shifting of the channel, and its shallow

and tortuous course,' was at all times uncertain and
                         it
                                it

                                                   ;
frequently very dangerous. When we passed, the new
channel had not been completed the captain of our

steamer therefore thought advisable to come to anchor
for the night and wait until the following morning.
           wretched place called the town of Sulina, on
There   is
           ;a

              it
the right bank of the river, near the commencement of

the moles         consists of wooden houses, stores, shops,

and cafes, scarcely two feet above the level of the water,

and surrounded by marshes, that send forth the most

pestiferous malaria.     was told that fevers constantly
a

            I
                I

                       I
prevail there, and am not surprised at                for a more

abominable, uninviting place have seldom seen. Next

morning we started for Odessa soon after daybreak, and

after tolerably smooth passage reached the western
harbour at about four o'clock in the afternoon.

The view of Odessa, at about two or three miles'

distance, as you approachis it  from the sea,                  rather
pretty and imposing. It situated upon calcareous
                      ODESSA.  379

sandstone cliff, about 40 feet above the sea, with a very
fine row of majestic stone buildings running the whole

length from north to south, having a spacious road,

terrace, and garden between them and the edge of the
cliff. The town behind is for the most part well and

regularly laid out, with wide, spacious streets, at right

angles to each other, and some handsome shops and

buildings, the residences of tradesmen and merchants.

A great number of wealthy nobles and landowners

reside here in winter, and houses worthy of the name
of palaces, such as those of the elegant and high-born
Countess of Urrenzoff, the Govenor-General Prince

Manukebe, Count Tolstoy, Mr. Maas the great banker,

and numerous others. The surrounding country,

although the soil is rich, is open, with very few trees,

and has therefore a bleak, uncomfortable appearance.

The custom-house officers were very civil, to my sur

prise, and gave us very little trouble, so we soon got

permission to land, and immediately went to the Hotel

de Londres, a very fine extensive building, situated in

the grand row of buildings already mentioned facing

the sea. Here we obtained handsome, spacious, well-

furnished rooms, and lived very comfortably at a

Imoderate charge.  called upon the Governor, Count

   The next day

Strogonoff ; the Mayor, Count Tolstoy ; the English Con
sul, Mr. Grenville Murray, and several members of the

I Imunicipality. Having paid these formal visits of cere

mony, at which was courteously received, imme
diately began to inquire into the best mode of paving

and draining the city, where the best materials were

to be obtained and their prices; in fact, everything

connected with them.

Before proceeding further it may be proper to de

scribe the state of the place as regards paving and
sewers, which may be summed up in a few words.

There was neither one nor the other ; and it is difficult
380 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

to conceive how such a fine and wealthy city could

have been built, or could have existed so long without
them. First, with regard to the streets. The soil

is composed chiefly of sand mixed with clay, which

during fine dry weather makes a tolerably good
road, but the moment it becomes saturated with
water, which is the case for a considerable portion of

the year, it is converted into one vast puddle, and
the large and constant traffic cuts it up into deep holes

and gullies, so that in a comparatively short time the
road is a sea of mud, and almost impassable. During

my stay there were only a few days' rain, but even this
gave me a tolerable idea of
                            a       so that could easily
                                    I
believe the account given to me by the authoritiesit,
                                                     a
and other inhabitants was by no means exaggerated.

During the worst state of the streets, the obstruction of

bullocks and horses trying to drag the loaded waggons

and carriages was something dreadful, and many a

waggon was left irrevocably fixed in the mud with nu
merous carcasses of horses and bullocks lying beside it.

It was singular thing that nearly all the corn ware
ithouses were in the upper parts of the town, about mile

             a
from the harbour where the corn was to be shipped,

instead of being close by. During the wet season

costs as much to get the corn from the granaries

to the harbour as to take from Odessa to London. The
                     a it
butchers' shops were at the upper end of the town, from

half to three quarters of mile from the eastern part,

where all the principal people live, and when provi

sions were required for the family they were obliged to

hire carriage with three or four horses to get them
a                                   a
        a                                                ;

            a
and unless family kept a regular store of provisions
they ran great risk of being starved. The roads in
the country round are not bit better than those in

Odessa during wet weather they are almost impassable.
;

About twenty-eight miles from Odessa, at place on
                            kind of depot for the vast
the River Dneister,  is
                         a

quantities of corn brought down from the interior.
                        ODESSA.                                                381

IImmense heaps or hills of corn were lying there

when visited it. In wet weather these cannot be

Iremoved, and was informed that a great deal wa?
burnt or allowed to rot because it could not be taken
away, either on account of the badness of the roads or
the dangerous state of the bar at the entrance of the

river.

The sewers were very simple. Gullies had been made
along each side of the streets, into which all the filth
was thrown, so that in dry seasons it accumulated there,

creating the most offensive effluvia, and in wet weather
it would not run off, on account of the gullies being

blocked up with mud. It was impossible to find a city
in a worse state, and it was astonishing that such a

great, wealthy, and luxurious city could have so long
existed in such a condition. As there was no stone in

the neighbourhood fit for paving the streets, granite or

a similar hard stone being the only kind fit for the
purpose, the next question was where it was to be

found, how to get  it,  and the cost of doing so. Upon

inquiry, heard that excellent granite might be ob
        ;
tained in any quantity from a quarry situated on the
         I
river Bug, and on proceeding there found that very
                                 I

                                                         a

                                                  I
good stone might be got with great ease, and at com

paratively trifling cost. Having made my report,

returned to England.
In 1862 was appointed chairman of the Civil
            I

Engineering Department of the International Exhi
bition, assisted by the Marquis of Salisbury, M.

Bommart, M. Koch, of Berlin M. Lelere, Belgium M.
                        ;
                                             ;

                                                                            ;
Loehr, Austria Cesare Valerio, Italy the Baron Baude,
            II ;
M. Mille, Mr. C. Manby, Mr. Kelk, and Mr. Page.

Our report, believe, was entirely satisfactory.

After this was asked to examine the water supply

of Vienna, and accordingly, having reached that city,
                                              :
turned my attention to the following objects
                                                      I

First, to the mode there adopted for supplying the

water this found to be by means of steam pumping
            I
382 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

engines of inadequate power, which forced the water

through iron pipes to fountains in the different streets,
whence it was obtained and delivered into the houses

by carts and carriers. The supply was not enough for

the wants of the town, neither was the water sufficiently

pure nor properly filtered. It contained a good deal of

vegetable matter at the best of times, as the water was
admitted through the porous soil adjoining the river
into very small reservoirs, and it had no time to de
posit the alluvial matter with which it was charged
before it was delivered for use. Moreover, this method

of supplying the water by means of steam pumping

engines was a constant expense, and the more water

Ithat was required the greater would the expense be.

  found, also, that an English party had proposed to

extend and amplify the existing system, by erecting

more powerful engines, and by making receiving and

filtering reservoirs upon a much larger scale about

three or four miles higher up the Danube, on the

same side, where the water was clearer and more free

from the sewage of the city. Now, when I considered

that the population was even then between five and six
hundred thousand, and that it was daily increasing,

this pumping system appeared to me to be the worst

plan possible to effect the desired object, unless no other
Imeans could be found.
                        therefore determined to ex
Iplore the environs of the city, as felt convinced, from
the geographical features of the neighbourhood, that
there must be numerous streams amply supplied with
water, with their beds sufficiently elevated, and with

reservoir room to any extent, to afford, by gravitation,

an abundant supply of the best water to Vienna, not

Ionly for the present number of inhabitants, but for

three millions and upwards. In other words, pro

posed to conduct the water from some of these sources
in a covered aqueduct, simply by its own natural in
clination, to a reservoir situated above the tops of the
WATER SUPPLY OP VIENNA.                                        383

loftiest houses, in the highest part of the city ; thus
all pumping would be done away with, and a vast

yearly expenditure would be saved ; the first cost of

these works would not exceed the first cost of the

extended plan on the old system above mentioned, as

proposed to be made higher up the Danube. Further

investigation completely established the correctness of

my opinion.       I  took  the  railway  to  Trieste, passing  by
    On my return

IBaden, Neustadt, up the line or valley of the Leitha, as

far as the base of the Sommering ridge. Here first

visited the Fischa Dagnitz river, one of the tributaries

of the Leitha; it is a splendid stream, about twenty

feet wide, three to four feet deep, the water as clear as

crystal, and flowing over a gravelly bottom. During

the height of summer the temperature seldom exceeds

40 degrees of Fahrenheit. It is impossible to imagine

a finer stream; it has been analyzed and highly ap

proved by some of the first chemists, who pronounce
it to be exceedingly pure. This water could be con

veyed by gravitation through a covered conduit to the
top of a hill overlooking Vienna, and from thence it
could be delivered to the highest parts of the city in

ample quantity, without pumping or filtration. The
water of the Danube, even after filtration, cannot be

compared with it. The Fischa Dagnitz turned a number
of mills in its course, and this was the only objection

to taking the water. But this was a loss that could

easily be compensated for by making reservoirs, to be

supplied by the surplus waters of this and other streams.

The Fischa Dagnitz, therefore, appeared to me to be

decidedly the best source for supplying Vienna with

Ipure water, for any reasonable number of inhabitants.
   next examined the Leitha above the Dagnitz, and

Ihere found that there was a superabundant supply,

although the water was by no means so good as that
Iof the Dagnitz.     examined several other tributaries
384 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Ito the Leitha, passing over an extensive mass of debris,

called the Steinfeld, where found that by damming

some large reservoirs could be made, from which an

ample supply could be obtained of the same quality as
that of the Leitha, although by no means so good as

that of the Fischa Dagnitz. It was quite clear, there

fore, that plenty of water could be obtained for Vienna
now and for all future time from this quarter. But not

Iwishing to overlook any source from whence a supply

of water could be procured, took the railway from

IVienna to St. Polten, a town on the road to Linz.
   Here found a very fine and copious stream, though
Iwhen examined  it,
                   it it  was nearly in its lowest state.

The ground between and Vienna was very high, so

that to certain extent pumping must have been re
a

 if
sorted to, this source of supply was adopted. Another

objection was the much greater distance as compared
with the streams up the valley of the Leitha.
                            aa                 felt

therefore satisfied that would not do, and that theI
                    I it
question lay between the Fischa Dagnitz and the tribu

taries of the Leitha on the Steinfeld above mentioned.

All these observations embodied in report to the

municipality of Vienna, and recommended the Fischa

Dagnitz; for although there might be few feet less

fall, still, taking into account the far greater purity

of the water, was the best. The municipality received

my report, and returned me their thanks for it. At
I
    it
all events, had decided the question against taking

the water from the Danube.

Having made these investigations and sent in my

report upon them, now remained for the municipality
                it

to decide. They said they would take time to con

sider, and accordingly appointed some of the most able

and scientific officers of their own body, as well as those

attached to the Government, to investigate the subject
further. After above two years' examination these

persons made their report, recommending that the
              ST. MICHAEL'S.      385

principle of gravitation as proposed by me should

be adopted, and that the supply should be taken

Ifrom the tributaries of the Leitha in the Steinfeld :

this was in fact adopting my plan, although preferred
the Fischa Dagnitz as the source of supply, as none

could or did dispute the superior quality of its water to

all others.

   The municipality have been deliberating ever since
on the best plan of carrying this great work into effect,

whether by a private company, or whether they shall

Iexecute the works by contract and supply the water at

their own cost. This question, as far as know, has
not been settled, although it has been now nearly six

years in agitation; meanwhile the city suffers materially
from the want of a good supply of pure wholesome

water.

   In the spring of 1861 a Mr. Parkenscholz, and

M. Jose de Conte, a member of one of the wealthiest
and most respectable families of St. Michael's, the

principal island of the Azores, called and informed me

that the Portuguese Government had decided to make

a harbour at Ponta Delgada, the chief town of St.

I IMichael's, the cost of which was estimated at the sum
of 134,000/.  replied that should be willing to

Iundertake the superintendence and construction of

this harbour, provided that was not compelled to
Iserve them beyond the term of four years, and that
   was not to be responsible either for the plan or for
Ithe amount estimated to complete it. To these terms

the Portuguese Government consented, and started

for the Azores in September, 1861.
   We reached Ponta Delgada on the 20th September,

and were very much delighted with our first view of it.

The town rose rapidly from the sea, and presented a
most interesting appearance. The spires of numerous

churches, starting up from the level of the surrounding

houses, pierced the blue sky, while here and there were

                              2c
38 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

gardens filled with the gayest of flowers, and groves of
orange, lemon, and olive trees, the whole embosomed in
a picturesque bay, backed by evergreen conical hills,
reminding one a good deal of Naples.

  On landing I was received with great ceremony,
Iand was waited on by the Junta at my hotel. The

next day attended a meeting of the Junta at the
Governor's house, when we discussed all the various

preliminary operations that were necessary prepara

tory to commencing the harbour.
It appeared desirable that the first stone should be laid
Ibefore left the island, and preparations were ordered
Ito be made accordingly.
                          gave Mr. Plews full in
structions as to what was necessary for this, and having

two days to spare I determined to accompany my friend,

Mr. Thomas Ivens, on an excursion to Furness, a cele
brated watering-place, situated near the eastern end of

the island, about 27 miles distant. We started on

a couple of good donkeys, with another carrying some

provisions, and proceeded along the south shore over a

very fair carriage road, for about five miles, through

some neat villages embowered in orange and lemon

orchards, passing also by comfortable villas and country
houses, and then struck in a north-easterly direction

across the island over an undulating well-cultivated

country, chiefly growing Indian corn and other cereals
and green crops. When we reached the summit of this
part of the island we got a good view of the mountains
to the eastward and of the sea on the north and south

sides. We halted for about an hour, and then proceeded
to a large town situated on the northern shore, sur

rounded by rich gardens and fields, having every appear

ance of prosperity. From thence we proceeded along the
north shore over some very steep hills and cliffs over
looking the sea, the road still good, until we got to a

little roadside inn about dark. There was, however, light

enough from the stars to find our way, so off we set
                  ST. MICHAEL'S.  '             387

again, and going over a very wild hilly country got

to the top of the pass which descended to Furness about

ten o'clock at night. Here the road ceased, and we found

it necessary to get off the donkeys and walk, for fear of

being tumbled over their heads, although they were

Ivery sure-footed. At a subsequent visit to this place

crossed over the pass by daylight, and the view from the

summit is very fine, looking into what was formerly

the crater of a volcano, which is nearly two miles wide,

surrounded by lofty rugged hills between 2000 and

3000 feet high, the bottom of the crater valley being

now covered with rich verdure and gardens and tro
pical trees and plants of various kinds. Near the
crater was the little village of Furness, with its church

and white houses dotted about, and close by were the

sulphurous hot baths sending forth volumes of steam,
the whole forming one of the most picturesque and
agreeable scenes imaginable. We got to the inn at
the bottom of the valley at about 12 p.m., thoroughly

tired, having ridden and walked for nearly eleven

Ihours. The inn, considering all things, was by no
means bad.  got a good bed and supper, and soon

fell asleep, while my companion, Mr. Ivens, went to

Inhiisghfta'smilsyle, ewp hIo    there. After
                  were stopping  morning and   a sound
                  got up in the                 took a

warm sulphur bath as hot as could stand        which
                  a

                     it
                              is

                                     a
                                            is
                                                                  it,

                                                         I
was about 96; but you may have the water at almost

any temperature, as issues boiling from the spring.

Close by, within  few yards,      a cold chalybeate

spring, and not far distant  vast extent of rich alum

deposit, from which great quantities may be extracted,

and manufactory had then commenced operations.
a

walked about until midday, quite enchanted with the
beauty of the place, dined with my friend Ivens and

his amiable family, and about one o'clock in the after

noon mounted my donkey and started off with the

guide for Ponta Delgada, being determined possible
                                  2

                                    o if

                                           2
388 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF Silt JOHN RENNIE.

to get there that night. We had a tolerably stiff hilly

road fit only for mules, donkeys, or horses, before we

could get out of the valley. Having ascended the summit
of the first pass, we had a delightful view behind over

the delicious valley of Furness which we had just left.

We then came to a rather extensive lake, surrounded by

evergreen hills of much less elevation than those

surrounding the valley ; and on the opposite side

of this lake, which was two to three miles long and

about a mile wide, we observed the country house of
our Consul, Samuel Vines, Esq., seated on the side of a
hill about 200 or 300 feet above the lake, embosomed in

woods ; and at the foot of the hill, close by the water's

edge, was a strong sulphur spring, of the same tempera
ture as those of Furness, and like them covered with
clouds of steam. There was not a house near it all
Iround the lake. It was singular that he should have
chosen such a solitary spot.  continued along the

south and west side of the lake, which is bounded by

hills covered with underwood and evergreens, but not

a house nor even a shed to be seen ; only a few solitary

cattle here and there with a shepherd boy. Nothing

could be more still or lonely; but at the same time
there was a degree of quiet and repose which gave to

the place a certain undefinable charm not to be resisted.

Upon leaving the west end of the lake we ascended
the hill over a rugged path, passing through a wild,

bare district, and from the summit enjoyed a fine

view of nearly the whole of the island, which was
very beautiful whichever way you looked. We now

descended a very steep path, the view changing at
        turn. At last,
every                   about five o'clock,   we reached the
clean,   pretty town
                        of Villa Franca,     where I halted

nearly an hour for refreshment.

   Villa Franca, which is situated in a small bay on the
seashore, was formerly the capital of the island, but an

earthquake having occurred near, it was abandoned for

Delgada. It is still a thriving little place, with a rich
THE HARBOUR AT PONTA DELGADA.  389

surrounding country. There is a small island, a few

hundred yards from the shore, where a good harbour

might be made.

After leaving this town we had to take a rough

road along the sea-coast for a couple of miles, partly

through deep sand, and partly among scattered rocks,
for there was no regular road. We then left the

shore and travelled over the cliffs by an equally

bad path, sometimes over deep chasms and sometimes

Iup narrow glens, until we reached the high road again,

at which was very glad, as it was now dark and
very difficult to find our way. We pushed forward

with confidence, and the donkeys went on very well ;

after passing through numerous villages, sometimes
Ilying on the sea-shore, at others a little distance in

land, at last, much to my satisfaction --for was very
tired --we reached Mr. Rodrigue's comfortable hotel

Iabout midnight. Old Rodrigue was surprised that
had made the journey of between 50 and 60 miles in
so short a time, for although it was the month of Sep

tember, the sun was very powerful, and the road for

many miles was very bad.

Next day we had another meeting of the Junta, and

they made all the arrangements for laying the first

Istone of the new harbour, which was to take place with
every possible ceremony.  found that Mr. Plews had

got a couple of large stones well dressed for the purpose ;
the captain of the port had provided the sheers and

tackle for hoisting them ; and the Junta had procured

in the town a very pretty silver trowel, a mallet, and

mortar holder. A commodious gangway had been

prepared from the shore to the west end of the old

mole, fronting the area where the new pier or mole

was to commence, according to the plan approved of

by the Government.

The whole town was in motion at an early hour,
and great numbers of people came in from the neigh

bouring towns and villages, all dressed in holiday cos
390 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

tume. The town was decorated with the flags of various
nations, amongst which the Union Jack was particularly
conspicuous. In fact, it was considered a great national
fete; the more so, as a work such as this was intended
to be had never been previously undertaken in this
island, or in the kingdom of Portugal itself. The
procession was marshalled at the Town Hall, and
consisted of the band of the militia of the island ;
then the governor, his secretary, and the Junta or
committee that was to conduct the work, followed

by the principal officers, merchants, and deputations
from the chief towns in the island, with their respective
banners, closed by a number of the most respectable

 inhabitants of the place ; the lower orders, clad in
their best, lining the way by which we passed. Upon
arriving at the place we were met by the chief priest of

the island, who, in a short prayer, invoked a blessing
from the Almighty that the enterprise might prosper.
 Then, upon a signal being given, coins of the realm,
 together with a printed paper, containing an account
 of the proposed work, the names of the governor and
 Junta, the engineers, officers, &c., were placed in a glass
 bottle, and deposited in the cavity of the lower stone,
 which had previously been prepared and set. The

Igovernor having placed the glass case in the cavity,
     handed to him the silver trowel, with which he
 spread out the mortar. The stone was lowered into
 its place, and the governor, having previously adjusted

      gave the usual three taps with the mallet, and the
 ceremony was finished with discharge of guns from
 the fort, and numerous showers of rockets from the
 town, amidst the cheers and vivas of the bystanders,

 the band playing the national anthem. In the evening

    very handsome entertainment was given at M. Jose
 de Conte's villa, on the outside of the town, to which
 the Junta and principal officers and merchants of the
 place were invited. The Portuguese band played
a it,
                                                       a
       THE HARBOUR AT PONTA DELGADA.      391

admirably during and after dinner, and we all retired
much pleased with the success of the day's proceedings.

IThe governor presented me with the silver trowel,

which respectfully declined, and requested him to
keep it as a memorial of the happy day ; which he, after

Isome hesitation, accepted, and contented myself with

the polished mortar holder, and the next leading man

Iof the Junta accepted the mallet.
   The next day made final arrangements for my

departure by the packet, which was expected on its

return from Fayal the day after. In the mean time I
had been considering the danger of the harbour as laid

down or rather approved by the Government, and found

that if the west mole was commenced at the east end of

Fort San Bray, as proposed, the fort would be exposed

to a much heavier swell ; but that by making it com
mence at the western end of the fort this would be

avoided ; moreover, the sum of 600/. would be saved,

and the harbour would be made so much larger. This

Irecommendation was afterwards adopted by the Govern
ment.  now took my leave of the governor and all

the authorities, and my other friends, with my grateful

thanks for their kindness and attention.

The island, taken in a direct line from north to south,
is about 40 miles long, and from 7 to 9 miles wide. It

is entirely volcanic. The east and west ends exhibit
the most powerful effects of the volcanic force. In

the former we see mountains raised to the height of

about 3300 feet above the level of the Atlantic, in

the centre of which lies the valley of Furness, the

bottom being occupied by a lake that still sends forth

sulphurous vapours; and in the latter or west end

we find mountains of about 3000 feet, the centre of

which is occupied by a large lake, without any exhi
bition of existing volcanic action. Near the centre
of the island, which is the narrowest part, there are
numerous minor conical-shaped hills of less elevation,
392 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

but all more or less showing their volcanic origin. The
island enjoys a most genial climate, and frost or snow
is of rare occurrence ; but during the autumn and
winter it is visited by heavy gales from all quarters
of the compass, which extend over a distance of about
100 miles. During this period a great deal of rain
falls, and the climate may be said to be moist,
much resembling that of Madeira. Formerly a good
deal of wine was produced here, but since 1855,
when the oidium disease made its appearance, the
vintage has been very unsatisfactory; and although
a certain quantity of wine, resembling that of Madeira,
is still made for home consumption, none is exported.
The principal productions of the island now are oranges
and lemons, of which vast quantities are annually ex
ported to the north of Europe. The district where
these are produced is restricted to the centre of the
island, commencing at Ponta Delgada, and extending
eastward about 7 or 8 miles. On the north it is
bounded by the central ridge of hills, and on the south
by the sea, the width being about 3 or 4 miles, so
that it enjoys the full rays of the southern sun. These
orange and lemon orchards are cultivated with the

greatest care, and wherever they are exposed to the
east, west, or southern gales are protected by high stone
walls. On the north the hills alone afford sufficient

shelter.

    Towards the latter end of October the season com
mences, and continues until about the end of February,
during which time the harbour of Ponta Delgada is
continually crowded with shipping, whilst on shore the
inhabitants are busy packing the fruit in boxes ; these
boxes are made from the wood brought chiefly from the
forests that clothe the mountains at the eastern end of
the island. The vessels in which the fruit is exported

are principally small schooners, built rather short,
 capital sea boats, and manned by the best of captains
                THE FRUIT VESSELS.                             393

and sailors, who thoroughly understand their profes
sion. They go to sea in any weather, which is at times

most severe, rarely if ever meet with any accidents on

the voyage, and make the passage to England in from

eight to ten days. It is true they are sometimes driven

ashore when they break from their moorings in the

exposed roadstead of Ponta Delgada during heavy

gales from the south-west to the south-east, to which

it is exposed ; but this will be obviated by the new

harbour, and was one of the objects of its being made.
Sometimes, during the prevalence of these gales, they

are obliged to slip their anchors, and run for shelter
to the northern side of the island, where they occa

sionally ship their cargoes, which is always done by
means of lighters from the shore. Immediately they

are laden they start with the first fair wind, however

strongly it blows ; they never wait for weather, but

as soon as laden they put to sea, and generally make

Igood, indeed, the best of passages.

      met a young botanist who had come out in one of
these vessels to Ponta Delgada, for the purpose of making
botanical researches in this and in the neighbouring

islands, in the month of March ; they had an excellent
                they got within about  caaphtuainnd, re"dWmeilesshaollf
passage until   when he said to the
St. Michael's,

to-morrow."       The   cwapetaatihne, r,anreepxliceedll,en"t  sailor,
at the signs    of the                                          don't
Ibe there

looking

think so. We are going to have a hard gale from

the southward." He immediately ordered his mate to

well batten down the hatchways, shorten sail, and

make all as snug as possible. The captain was right ;

the gale from the south came a few hours afterwards,

with a very heavy sea.

The young botanist frankly confessed to me that he

began to be terribly afraid at seeing the tremendous

sea running after them, and asked the captain if there

was any danger ; when the captain coolly replied,
894 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

" Never fear : it is only a little loss of time. Go to

your berth, and lie there quietly. We shall get there

safe enough, with a little patience." The captain then

ordered the vessel to be hove-to, and there she lay as

comfortably as possible, never shipping a single sea,
although the waves were running mountains high.
After about five or six days she entered the bay of

Ponta Delgada without having sustained the least

damage. She got her cargo of fruit aboard and re

turned directly, and made one of the quickest passages

that season to England.

Besides oranges and lemons, St. Michael's grows
large quantities of Indian corn, wheat, barley, potatoes,
and other articles, of which she exports largely to Por

tugal, and is considered the granary of the kingdom ;

her exports are much larger than her imports, and

she receives back in return wine, oil, and manufactured
goods. In fact, St. Michael's is looked upon by the Por

tuguese as their most productive and wealthiest island.
The population is extremely civil, hard-working, and

industrious, and the upper classes are wealthy, enter

prising, and energetic, and send some of the most

talented deputies to the Cortes, who by their ability
and perseverance attain the highest offices in the State ;
for example, the late Minister of Finance, Senhor Avila,

who, although a rough subject, was yet possessed of great

Italents and integrity. The island also furnishes some

very fine hardy sailors and soldiers ; and was told

that the other islands of Pico, Fayal, and St. Mary's,

Ialthough not equal in extent or wealth, do the same.

   On the 9th of October (1863) again left London
for Lisbon by one of the Royal Mail steamers, and

Ireached it on the morning of the 13th following,

and on the 15th, in the evening, started in the

packet for Ponta Delgada, which we reached on the
Imorning of the 20th, after an agreeable and toler
ably smooth passage.     found that some considerable
THE HARBOUR AT PONTA DELGADA.      395

progress had been made with the preliminary works ;

although these were not so far advanced as they

Imight have been, in consequence of the Junta not
having found the necessary funds.  had previously

explained to them in written reports, that the more com

plete the preliminary works were made, and the larger

the scale on which the operations were conducted, the

Isooner the harbour would be completed, and the greater
would be the economy.  have already observed that

the Government had approved of a certain plan for the
harbour without consulting me, and that it had simply

Iconfided to me the charge of carrying the design into

effect. However, felt it my duty to consider the plan
more maturely, so as to ascertain how far it was

likely to answer the object intended; as, for example,
whether the estimate made was sufficient for the

purpose, and whether it could be done within the
I Itime stated.
could not at first do this, because

had not had time sufficient to investigate the local

circumstances ; however, upon my second visit, the ex

perience of my former one, combined with the observa
tions which Mr.Plews had made in the meantime, enabled

me to master the subject ; and upon carefully consider
ing the plan adopted by the Government, and com

Iparing it with the local experience which had now
Iobtained, felt convinced that the design would not

effect the object proposed. Vessels would neither be

able to enter nor depart during the most dangerous
and prevalent winds, without the risk of being ship
wrecked; neither could those vessels lying in the

harbour be considered safe. The plan was deficient in
all the qualities necessary for a good harbour ; as regards
the expense, it would cost at least more than double
the estimate ; and as to the time, it would be extremely

Idifficult to state when the works would be completed.

Having clearly satisfied myself upon these points, felt
it my duty to inform the Junta, so that they might
396 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

report the same to the Government. The Junta
received my remarks very cautiously, and said that

several objections to the plan adopted had occurred to

them ; however, they did not pretend to give any

opinion upon the subject, and they requested me to
make a full report upon the plan adopted, together
with all my objections, and the cost of carrying it into

Ieffect. They also requested me to prepare a new plan,

according to what conceived best adapted to the local
circumstances ; also an estimate of the cost of carrying

it into effect; and said that as soon as they received

them they would send them to the Government, and

Iwould communicate to me their decision as early as

possible. This accordingly did upon my return to

England.
   IThis report was submitted by the Junta to the

Government, and it was decided that the plan pro
posed was the best, and the Government ordered it to
be carried into effect. This decision was very gratifying
I Ito me, for was strongly convinced that was right,
Iand if the Government had decided otherwise
                                                    felt

that there was no alternative but to resign my situation.

IThe works were therefore ordered to be proceeded
with according to  Ithedenpearwtedplaanrrathnagted  recommended.
The Junta before
                                                    with me that

Ithe contract for my services should be limited to five

years from 1861, although was previously informed
that it should only be for four years, the sum for my

Iremuneration being the same for five as for four years ;

this was certainly a loss to me, but did not wish to

                         it,

                            I
make any difficulty about as was anxious that my

plan should be adopted.

My design consisted simply of one mole or breakwater

carried from the west side of Fort St. Braz, and in such

a direction that no eastern pier would be required, as

the opposite shore of the bay would answer that pur
pose. The mole consists of two arms, one at the shore
THE HARBOUR AT PONTA DELGADA.                  397

end, 2000 feet long, and the outer end from 800 to

1000 feet long, with ample depth within from 40 to
50 feet, and covering a water space of nearly double
the extent of the old plan. This new mole when

finished will have a strong promenade stone parapet
20 feet above the level of high water, and a roadway

below 40 feet wide, lined by a quay wall on the inside,

alongside of which the largest vessels may approach
and take in and deliver their cargoes at all times.

Railways will be laid along the quays, and cranes
worked by steam will travel along them for loading

and unloading the vessels.

This mole is now advanced outwards about 1600 feet,
Iand if the Junta had only followed my advice, it ought
to have been finished by this time.  always calculated

that after the first year, when the whole of the works

were in full operation, from 1000 to 1200 tons of stone

should be daily deposited, whereas, upon an average
they have not done half that quantity, in consequence
of their not employing sufficient plant in the shape of

waggons, trucks, cranes, locomotives, tools, &c. ; how

ever, that is their fault, not ours. I have constantly

made reports pointing out these deficiencies.

    The quarries having now been opened, railways
laid, and a sufficient number of locomotives, waggons,

and trucks having been provided for the present, I pro

posed to the Junta that they should commence deposit
ing stone on the line of the great mole. The laying
of the first, as mentioned before, was simply a matter

of ceremony, as they were really not then in a

position to commence the actual work. The Junta

approved of my proposal, and accordingly, two days

before my departure, this ceremony took place.
About six waggons laden with blocks from two to
five tons weight were drawn by one of the locomotive
engines from the quarries to the end of the staging
or platform in the line of the mole, and were there
398 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

deposited with great dclat. The locomotive then returned

with the empty waggons and brought six more, which
were deposited in the same manner, and this opera
tion continued throughout the day. As this mode
of conducting the harbour works had never been
before seen on the island, it created much interest and

astonishment amongst the natives, and the ladies were

Iparticularly amused by taking a ride upon the loco
motive engines.  simply observe once for all that this

mole was to be constructed by depositing, from open
staging in the line of the mole, blocks of rough stone
varying from a quarter of a ton to 10 tons in weight,

when they could be obtained. These blocks being
deposited in the sea, the waves would soon drive and
consolidate them together, until after a time the mass

becomes immovable ; in fact, the sea is the workman

or mason to arrange the stone deposited in such a

manner that it shall become fixed in its place ; there

fore, during the operation the more and heavier the

storms the better, the great point being that the stone
shall be carried out and deposited in such masses that

the sea shall not break through but merely act upon
    by drawing down the exterior or sea slope to such

an angle that will stand after the heaviest storms.
Now my father, who commenced this system at the
breakwater in Plymouth Sound, and in other places,
found that the sea slope of mole or breakwater con
structed in this manner would stand an inclination of
it,
                    it

                                                   it,

1
           1

              5

                 5j

                                        1

                          I
                                                a

                              I
about or         to for every foot perpendicular, and

to on the land side, as have mentioned in former
                                                        a

chapter.
   Throughout all my experience have found the same,

therefore the breakwater at Ponta Delgada was founded
upon this principle. Five lines of railway of the 7-feet
gauge have been carried out upon the staging, so that
the top has a width of fully 50 feet and as the works

proceed outwards another will perhaps be added,
                                                        ;

                                                                            if
           RAMSGATE HARBOUR.                                      399

circumstances requirea        which will make the width

70 feet. By keeping up a constant supply of stone,it,
there will always be sufficient for the waves to act upon
until the sea slope has attained its ultimate point of
repose. As fast as the large blocks of stone are depo
sited and washed into their place, great quantities of
quarry rubbish are supplied to fill up the minor inter

stices and render the whole mass more solid, until the

slopes are in fit state to be regularly formed and

paved for receiving the parapet.
   For some years there had been constant complaint

from merchants and shipowners that they were taxed

for Ramsgate harbour when their vessels never did or

could use it. These continued complaints, so often re
peated, at last had effect, and Parliament decided, in the

year 1861, that the passing toll of Ramsgate harbour

should cease, and that only those vessels that used

should pay, according to a certain tariff. The
it

                                                                           it

                                                                                                        a
trustees under whose direction the harbour had been

made and maintained, complained to the Government

that without the passing toll they did not see from

whence funds could be derived to maintain                     in

proper state of efficiency, and therefore they re
quested to be relieved of their responsibility, and ten

dered their resignations, which were accepted by the
Government, and an Act of Parliament was passed in

the year 1862 relieving the old trustees from their trust,

repealing their Acts of Parliament, and vesting the
harbour, all its funds, and responsibilities, in the Board

of Trade.  succeeded my father in December 1821
it

           I

                                          a

                                                          it
as engineer-in-chief to the harbour, at the same
salary, namely, 210/. per annum, which included tra
velling and office expenses of every kind, the trustees

paying the salary of the resident engineer themselves.
The harbour was in very dilapidated state, in fact,

almost required rebuilding, when came under my

direction, and monthly visits of two and three days
400 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

were necessary, besides attending the Board in London

once every fortnight examining accounts, correspond
ence, reports, and plans, all of which required a good

deal of labour and responsibility, and which, if paid

for according to the usual professional scale, would
have amounted to at least treble the sum of 200J., or

Imore ; but considering the appointment to be perma

nent, and that upon retirement should be entitled to

Ian adequate pension according to my years of service,

  thought it better not to decline. In the year 1822, a
committee was appointed by the House of Commons

to investigate Ramsgate harbour and everything con
nected with it. Mr. Wallace, afterwards Lord Wallace,
was chairman of this committee; he made a searching

inquiry, and found nothing wrong. I was examined at

great length touching all works, the mode of managing
them, and what would be the total cost of doing so.

The cost it was extremely difficult if not impossible to

state, for the greater part of the works were under
water, and failures and accidents were constantly occur
ring without any previous warning, so that what was

Isound one day was in ruin the next.

    As an example, may mention the west pier-head :
this upon examination carefully from above appeared
quite sound ; not a crack could be seen above low water.

It is true that the projecting basement floor of the

lighthouse, which was not properly connected with the
lighthouse tower itself, and was little more than a mere
shed, showed a slight subsidence, but this outer part of
the lighthouse was in no way connected with the outer
walls of the pier head ; in fact, it rested upon the chalk
filling between the outer walls and the lighthouse. Now
this chalk filling might have subsided, by some leaks
through the outer wall of the pier head, without
denoting any serious defects in the pier-head walls ;
however the walls fell, with little or no warning, and

the consequence was that it was necessary to rebuild the
RAMSGATE HARBOUR.  401

whole pier-head, and the lighthouse also, at a cost of

Inearly 20,000/. To a certain extent the same thing

occurred at the east pier-head ; but this observed in
time, and completely secured it at a cost of 2000/. The
whole of the inner walls of the east and west piers

Iwere completely undermined, although from above they

showed no signs of failure, and was obliged to under
pin them to a depth of from 10 to 12 feet below low
water of spring tides. The old wooden sluices were worn
out ; and these it was necessary to replace. The main
entrance from the harbour to the basin was in such a
dilapidated state that it was necessary to take it down

and rebuild it; this cost 18,000/. The quay walls of

Ithe inner basin were fast going to decay ; and was
obliged to take them down and rebuild them. All the

filling in between the outer and inner walls of the outer
harbour had sunk in numerous places, and it was

unsafe for any person or carriage to go over it; it

was therefore imperative to take the whole of this out
and refill it with proper concrete. The pavement also

was completely worn out, so that we had to renew
it. There was no means of supplying the ships with

fresh water, or of extinguishing fires. It was therefore

necessary to lay pipes with stop cocks and hoses round
the piers and basin, connected with the main water-
pipes in the town. The whole of the sewage of the
town was discharged into the basin, and at low
water it created a most offensive effluvia, which ren

dered this part of the town unhealthy; I therefore

recommended that an intercepting sewer should be

made round the basin, so that all the sewage should
be diverted from the town and harbour into the sea,

to the westward, and by this means it was carried

away by the tide, and a great nuisance taken away

from the town. There was no regular tide gauge to
ascertain the exact rise and fall of the tide, so that

the harbour light at night could not be shown at the

                                                                                     2 i)
402 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

proper time, neither could the day signal be hoisted to

Ishow when there was sufficient depth at the entrance.

This defect remedied by establishing a self-acting
tide gauge in a well within the lighthouse at the west

pier-head. The pole of this tide gauge was connected

with a cylinder and a clock hand ; on the cylinder was a
roll of paper, and to the hand of the clock was attached

a pencil, which, as the rod or tide gauge rose and fell,
marked it on the paper ; thus the rise and fall of every

tide was indicated upon the paper, and the clock showed

the time, so that the rise and fall of every tide was
Iregularly registered and kept in a book from year to
year.  also established barometers at different parts

of the harbour, under lock and key, the latter of which

was kept by the harbour-master; these barometers
were set every morning, and the rise and fall was regis

tered in a book, so that all the captains of vessels in the

harbour could ascertain as nearly as practicable the state
of the weather; rain gauges were also established, a

regular account of the rainfall being registered. Before

my time the trustees had got an admirable time clock,

by Moore, for which they paid 200/., and Mr. Turner, one
of the chairmen of the trustees, got another clock from

Dent's, which cost 105/. These two clocks were kept

in repair by a competent person, and corresponded to a

second with the Royal Observatory time at Greenwich,

hence every captain of a vessel starting from Rams-

gate could carry the correct time with him. Thus

Ramsgate was provided with all the instruments for
ascertaining the correct time, the state of the tides,

together with the barometer, thermometer, the wind

and rain gauges, and everything necessary to indicate

the probable state of the weather.

  All harbours ought to be provided with these instru

ments, and a regular journal should be kept, forming

a careful record of the observations made from them.

After the harbour was transferred to the Board of
DAGENHAM LAKE.  403

ITrade still continued as principal engineer, at the

same salary, viz. 3151. per annum and travelling

expenses.

   In the middle of the last century a breach was made
on the left bank of the Thames, near the village of

Dagenham, and many thousand acres of the adjacent
lowlands were inundated. The most skilful engineers
of the day tried long and in vain to close the breach,
but at last it was effected by Captain Perie, at a cost

of 20,000/. ; but although the breach was closed, and

nearly the whole submerged lands relieved from the
water, still a space amounting to about 100 acres, where

the breach took place, has ever since remained covered,
and is called Dagenham Lake at the present day.

   The position of this fine sheet of water being on the
London side of the Thames, its depth varying from
4 to 20 feet below low water of spring tides, the
great depth and width of the river in front of it and its
proximity to London render it admirably adapted for
wet or floating docks. For a long time it passed un
noticed, until, the trade of London increasing, other
docks were established on both sides of the Thames at
and close to London ; the enormous cost of these and

 the high rates which they were necessarily obliged to
 charge in order to get anything like a remunerating
 dividend for the capital expended, induced enter
 prising people to look out for some situation lower
 down the river where docks could be established upon
 more moderate terms, and where consequently the
 rates would be much lower. Amongst other places
 Dagenham Lake attracted their notice, and very

 naturally so, for it possessed all the requisites for
 making a complete establishment of the kind at a most

 moderate cost, far below that which had been expended
 upon any of the great dock establishments in London.
 Who were the first persons who originated the idea of
 converting Dagenham Lake into a great dock establish

                                                                          2d 2
404 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIB JOHN RENNIE.

I Iment do not know, but amongst others, am told,

was Mr. George Burge, the well-known contractor,

about 1845. Subsequently Mr. Crampton took up the

idea, and proposed to convert Dagenham Lake into a

great dock establishment nearly twenty years ago, but

the project never came to maturity. At last Mr. George
Remington, a well-known projector, entered into it in

I1854, and asked me to join him. On investigating the
subject was    isnattihsfeieudndoef rittaskiinntgri.nsicAmBeilrlitsw,aasntdheargerfeoerde
to co-operate
obtained in the year 1855 for this purpose. It was

simply proposed in the first instance to connect the
Dagenham Lake with the Thames by means of a lock,

together with some small warehouses, landing wharves,

and a railway to connect it with the London and Tilbury

line ; the whole estimate of what it was proposed to

do there being confined to 120,000/., that is to say,

90,000/. subscriptions, and borrowing power of 30,000/.
This, it must be observed, was merely to commence the

undertaking upon a moderate scale ; and it was in

tended to extend the quays and warehouse room in

proportion as the increased trade requireda for the

                 it
                         it,

                              if

                                    it
floating basin accommodation was equal to that of the
largest docks in London, and the depth of water in
the river and in the dock was greater. The dock,

could be commenced upon this moderate scale, could
              true, have been considered as powerful rival
not,  it

          is

to the other dock establishments, but would have

relieved them from the greatest part of the lumber

trade, which they could not accommodate without great

inconvenience and even loss, such as the timber, guano,

hemp, flax, coal trades, &c. moreover,      would
               ;

                            a
                                   is

                                    it
give accommodation for laying up in ordinary the
great number of vessels which are always more or less

unemployed in the port of London. It computed
that of unemployed vessels there are generally about

150,000 tons; now these vessels, at penny per ton
DAGENHAM LAKE.  "-  405

per week, would alone return 7000J. per annum, and

as they require no superintendence except from their
owners, they alone would have paid 5 per cent, upon
the total capital of the Company, and all the other
trade would have added so much more to their income.

It was quite clear that it would be to the interest of

all the unemployed vessels to lay up there, because
they could do so at half the expense compared with

the other docks ; for even if they were to lie at their

moorings in the river, although they would be charged

nothing, still their expenses would be a great deal

more. There was, besides, another trade open to these
docks, that could not be accommodated in any of the

others, namely, the foreign cattle trade, which is every
day increasing, and which must continue to increase

Iwith the population of the metropolis.

   The first Act, as have already said, passed in 1855,

and although several attempts were made to form a

company to carry it into effect, they all failed. In
1862 another Act of Parliament was obtained, as the
original one had nearly expired. In the new Act the

powers were enlarged, and the works were extended to
300,000/., with power to borrow 100,000/. more; and
it was again attempted to form a company to carry it

into effect, but failed. In 1865 a third attempt was
made to form a company, and by the aid of Messrs.
Rigby, the well-known contractors of the great Ad

miralty harbour at Holyhead, a company was at length

formed. Those gentlemen contracted for the works at
a certain price, and agreed to take a large number of
the shares as well in payment. The works commenced
under my direction, in the month of May 1865, and
proceeded very well until the end of March 1866, when
the Messrs. Rigby got into difficulties, and were unable

to complete their contract, and the consequence was
that the whole of the works were stopped. The state

of the money market ever since has been so depressed
406 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

that it has hitherto been impossible to find the money
to carry them on, and thus this really valuable concern
remains still in abeyance.

   In 1866 another Act of Parliament was procured,

enabling the Company to obtain more land and to
increase the works, so that ultimately, when times
become favourable, it is very probable that this great

undertaking will be carried out, and will form one
of the largest and most important dock establishments
on the banks of the Thames.

   During the year 1866 it was attempted to obtain an
Act of Parliament for making a railway between Rom

ford and the docks. It passed the House of Commons,

but when it got into the House'of Lords its supporters
drew back and the Bill was abandoned.
( 407 )

CHAPTEE X.

Retrospect -- London Bridge -- Shrerness Dockyard -- Plymouth
    Breakwater and Victualling Yard -- Steam Vessels for the
    Navy -- Harrours -- Railways -- Broad and Narrow Gauge
    -- Atmospheric Railway -- Water Supply and Sewage.

I have thus endeavoured to give, in the foregoing

Inarrative, an account of my professional and private
life as near as my memory would serve.  have not

had a single date, or note-book, or journal to refer to ;

so that many inaccuracies may have occurred, parti

cularly with regard to the dates, although the facts
Iand circumstances are, believe, pretty fairly narrated.
I IIn my professional career consider that
                                            have

executed the following works :

I. London Bridge. This was designed by my father,

as far as the general outline and proportions, but he

did not live long enough to design any details, such as

the depth of the arch-stones and those of the inverted
arches between the main arches, or the adjustment of

them, so that the whole might be placed in a perfect

state of equilibrium, not only as regards the individual

arches, but also with each other ; neither was the

width of the foundations of the piers and abutments

given, nor the extent of piling necessary, the cornice

and parapets, stairs, pilasters of the piers and abut

ments, the construction of the cofferdams and centres ;

the specification as to what materials should be used,

and how they were to be put together ; the approaches

to the bridge on both sides, or how they were to be

designed and put together ; all these had to be workedit,

out and executed by myself. It is true that my

brother George gave me his advice when I required
408 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIB JOHN RENNIE.

Ibut still was the sole engineer, and the whole respon

sibility rested with myself. The execution of these
works was rendered much more difficult than intended

by my father, for at his death the site was that of the
old bridge. But the Committee of the Corporation of
London insisted that the new bridge should be built
immediately above the old one, the latter to be left

Istanding during the construction of the new bridge.

was therefore obliged to build it in the deep hole above
the old bridge, which was from 25 to 30 feet below
the level of low-water mark of spring tides.

  In. The completion of the great works of Sheerness

Dockyard. These, as have said, had been wholly
designed by my father upon an entirely original and
novel plan of hollow walls, which he first carried into
effect at Great Grimsby Docks, in the year 1786.
These walls, though composed of a mass of materials
of the same weight as ordinary dock walls, were dis
tributed over a wider area, and pressed less heavily
upon that surface in proportion to their extent, and
therefore the soft, sandy foundation upon which they
were built was able to bear them without yielding;
the increased friction also produced by the increased
surface of their base enabled them to withstand with

greater effect the lateral pressure of the earth behind

them ; thus a double object was gained, namely, security
against both vertical and lateral pressure.

    When my father died, on the 4th of October 1821,
the northern half of the new dockyard, including the
sea wall, the great basin, the three large dry docks at

 the west end, and the mast ponds and locks, had been

nearly completed ; so that it only remained to fix iron
gates for the dry docks and those of the mast and boat
ponds, which had been already designed and ordered,
 and were put into their places under my direction.
 This portion of the dockyard, although comprising
 the most extensive and costly part, was not the most
SHEERNESS DOCKYARD.                     409

difficult. The most arduous task still remained, namely,

the construction of the northern portion. Here was the

greatest depth of water, varying from 25 to 30 feet at
low water of spring tides, the worst foundation, and

the situation was much exposed to northerly and easterly

winds. These obstacles were felt so strongly by my

father, that he originally contemplated carrying out

the works by means of the diving bell ; but as so

much experience had already been obtained by the

employment of cofferdams in similar constructions,
where they had been very successful, it became a
question for my serious consideration whether it would

not be better to use cofferdams for the northern portion
of the dockyard, instead of employing the diving bell,
which would necessarily require much more time. After

consulting with the enterprising contractors, Messrs.

Jolliffe, Banks, and Nicholson, who had completed the

works already made, and Mr. John Thomas, the expe

rienced resident engineer, we came to the unanimous

conclusion that it was perfectly practicable to construct

the remainder of the works by means of cofferdams;

and although it would be rather more expensive,

nevertheless they could be done much better and far

more speedily than by the diving bell ; and, indeed, they

told me that my father had expressed the same opinion

before he died ; and that there was little doubt but
Ithat if he had lived he would have recommended
cofferdams instead of the diving bell.  consulted

my brother George upon the subject, and he was of

the same opinion. We resolved to recommend that

the remainder of the works should be completed by

cofferdams, and the Admiralty approved of our recom
mendation. Messrs. Jolliffe, Banks, and Nicholson

therefore undertook the contract for these works at

the sum of 845,000/., and gave ample security ; and

they were most successfully finished for the sum of

854,000/. in round numbers, or at about 0000/.
410 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

beyond the contract price, our estimate being nearly
900,000/.; so that they were actually completed for

about 45,000/. below our estimate, and fully three
years sooner than they would have been if the diving
Ibell had been used. Of course the real merit of these

works is due to my father ; but claim some credit for
                                                                       for if any
       hsaudccteasksefnullyplaccear--rieadndthtehmereinwtoas
Ihaving                                                       effect,  great diffi

failure                                                        very
culty and risk -- should have been blamed for and
probably been ruined at the outset of my career, as the;

whole responsibility rested with me my brother neveris

went near them.               it

in. finished the Chatham dry docks, commenceda;
       I
                                             I it,
by my father, at the cost of 100,000/. In these there

was nothing remarkable after those of Sheerness they

were much less difficult, although of somewhat similar

kind.

iv. The next great work was the finishing of the

great breakwater in Plymouth Sound. The chief

merit claim for this         in adding the benching
       aI
or berm on the outside, at the base of the sea slope,

which breaks the sea before  reaches the slope and

prevents   it  from acting injuriously upon it.                              also

claim certain portion of the credit for arranging and

executing the paving of the upper surface, and the

dovetailed masonry of the two ends of the breakwater.
   v. The design and execution of the Royal William

Victualling Establishment, at Stonehouse, near Devon-
port, claim entirely as my own, with the exception of
I

the machinery, for which my brother George entitled
                                                                       I is
to an equal share of credit with myself. This establish

ment, including the cost of the land, amounted, believe,

to between 600,000/. and 700,000/.

   vi. The great basin, two building slips for first-
rates, mast slip, and the river wall in front, at the

Royal Dockyard at Woolwich, costing 340,000/.

   vii. In company with Mr. Joseph Whidby, Mr.
             BAR AT PORTSMOUTH HARBOUR.              411

Walker,  and Captain Fullerton, of the Trinity House,
         a report for removing the bar, by means
I made

of dredging, at the entrance of Portsmouth harbour,

upon which there was only 13 feet at low water of

spring tides, which we estimated at 55,000/.; and it is

singular that this important work was never carried
into effect until many years afterwards, when it proved
to be completely successful as far as it went. The bar

was lowered 5 or 6 feet, and it might be lowered 8 or

10 feet more, so as to enable the largest class of vessels

to enter and depart at low water of spring tides, which

would be of the greatest possible advantage to the

public service ; and although the Admiralty have not

carried the dredging far enough, still there is now
18 feet at low water of spring tides, which enables the

largest class of vessels to pass the bar at half tide,

instead of only at high water as before. This fully

proves the value and correctness of our joint report ;

it only now requires that our recommendation should

be carried further, and there can be little doubt
that it will be successful. This great national har
bour will be rendered accessible at low water, and

it ought to be, particularly after the enormous sums

             a
                      a

                            is
                                                it,
that have been expended upon                         for unless the

depth over the bar  increased all improvements

will be comparatively valueless. Mr. Murray and

myself wrote joint report to the Admiralty, recom

mending that, in order to assist the dredging opera

tions over the bar, sluice should be erected across the

entrance to Langston harbour, with the gates or doors

of the sluice pointing inwards, so that at high water

they might be shut, and all the water, or so much of  it

as might be required, should be sent through Ports

mouth harbour at ebb tide, to assist in scouring down

the bar. Of course, in order to render these works

effective, would be necessary to enlarge the connecting
         it

channel between Portsmouth and Langston harbour,
412 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

so that all the Langston tidal water should flow out

through Portsmouth during the time of ebb.

   The Admiralty up to the present time have not
adopted this report. They must, however, in order

to preserve the requisite depth over Portsmouth bar, do
either the one or the other, or both ; that is to say, they

must increase the dredging operations, or send more

tidal water over and the latter can only be obtained
    if
                           ;
                        it,
from Langston as this harbour of little commer
                              is

                                                                            ;
cial value, supposing that any partial silting up should

take place, the depth could be restored by dredging
but both the dredging of Portsmouth bar and the

additional quantity of tidal water from Langston har

bour should be resorted to, the bar might be kept

Ifdown to the depth required, and Langston would not
be injured.     these two operations are skilfully con

ducted, so as mutually to assist each other, the result
will be successful, and this success
                                      is                                                                  the more neces

sary, in consequence of the quantity of land which

is  now being reclaimed from Portsmouth harbour for

the new works.

    VIII. The great flour mills and biscuit machinery

at the Clarence Victualling Yard, Portsmouth, were

designed and executed by my brother George and

myself. The idea of the bread apparatus was proposed
by M. Grout, and worked out by ourselves. The

great flour and biscuit mills at Deptford were also

'

                                         by

                                                                                                       ;
designed and executed         my brother and myself.

    ix. The Thames Tunnel shield the rolling ma

chinery of the Bombay, the Calcutta, and the Mexican

mints; the machinery at Constantinople for manu

facturing small arms; numerous locomotive engines

and tenders for different railways, amongst them the

Satellite,' for the Brighton Railway, which was one

of the first that travelled at the rate of 60 miles an

hour. The engines and machinery for several of Her

Majesty's vessels of war, amongst which may be men
   STEAM VESSELS OP THE ROYAL NAVY.  413

tioned the ' Bull Dog,' the yacht ' Elfin,' and others ;

four iron vessels, engines, and machinery for the

Russian Government for the Caspian Sea, the first that

were ever placed there ; two yachts for the Emperor
Nicholas ; the ' Vladimir ' frigate ; two large screw

vessels of war for the Baltic ; three also for the Black

Sea ; several for the Danube Company ; cranes, sugar

mills, diving bells, and machinery ; gantry cranes for

the mahogany roofs of the West India Docks ; spinning

and all kinds of machinery, from the year 1821 until

the year 1852.

   x. The first sea-going screw vessel that was con
structed, namely, the ' Archimedes ; ' and also the
' Dwarf,' 1839, the first screw vessel of war that was

Iintroduced into the navy.

   XI. recommended that the use of the Cornish high-

pressure condensing system should be introduced into

the steam-vessels of the Royal Navy. At that time

they were entirely upon the system of Boulton and

Watt, when steam was only employed to the extent of

5 lb. pressure upon every square inch. Now it was

well known that the intensity of the power of steam

increased in a much greater ratio than the additional

quantity of fuel required to raise the temperature, so

that high-pressure condensed steam was much more

economical than low pressure. There was a good
                                 in consequence of the
deal of prejudice againsta it,I

decided objections of Boulton and Watt, and therefore

was not adopted at the time, but by degrees this
it

                 is
prejudice has been overcome, and now steam of 25
to 30 lb. employed in the Royal Navy, with great

advantage and economy.

xn. may also say that was the means of intro
I

ducing oscillating engines into the navy. TheseI
believe were invented by Mr. Witte', of Hull, but
in consequence of the extreme accuracy required in
making them, and some degree of prejudice against
414 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

the vibratory action of the cylinder, this very valuable

invention was laid aside. The able and ingenious

               a it,
                                                                            it,
Mr. Maudslay took it up, but was dissatisfied with
and abandoned it. Mr. John Penn, who had a small

establishment for making machinery at Greenwich,

then adopted      and commenced manufacturing these

engines upon small scale for the steamboats on the
Thames. He improved on the idea, acquiring the

greatest experience in constructing the engines, and

he was convinced that they could be made upon any

scale with equally successful results. It happened

about this time that the Admiralty required new
engines of greater power for their official yacht,
the Black Eagle,' whose speed averaged little more
   '

      8
than knots an hour, and they applied to Boulton

and Watt, who had made the old engines for the

'  Black Eagle.' They said they could easily make more

powerful engines, but that these would necessarily
be heavier, and sink the vessel lower in the water,

when the resistance would be so much increased that

very little additional speed would be gained, and

therefore  it  would be better to have an entirely

new vessel. The Admiralty did not wish to incur

the expense, and the matter was likely to fall to

the ground. Penn heard of this, and, quite unin

vited, sent in tender to make new engines for thea
'Black Eagle,' double the power of the old ones, of

athe same weight, and occupying the same space, forI
    sum, not, think, exceeding the cost of engines

of the same power on the old method. He further

offered, the Admiralty officers were not satisfied, to
         I if
take them out, and replace the old engines at his own

expense. happened to be present upon other business

with the Comptroller of the Navy, Sir Thomas Byam

Martin,    itwhen Penn'sittender  was   sent  "inR,enannied,  after
reading       he threw    to me,  and  said,                  what

   do you think of that; should accept or not?"
                                  I           it              I
          HARBOURS, BRIDGES, RAILWAYS.                                                   415

read Perm's tender carefully, and knowing something

about the oscillating engine, and having a good opinion
                                                                                          u Then,"
of  iIt,                                                                                out badly
      shhea,sllai"dhavewthiltolhuedgohb-tlasmho,ee."asnhdou"ldVearcycetpwutrenllis,t".II
said                            I                                                           replied,
                                                                                      I
y"ou                                        if

                                                     it
if     turns out badly will take the blame." Penn's

   it

ofi'er was accordingly accepted. The engines were
made and fixed on board all the conditions of the
                                ;

tender were fully complied with, and the Admiralty
were perfectly satisfied with their bargain. From
that time forward Penn became one of the chief

manufacturers of the Admiralty engines, and has con

tinued to be so up to the present time.

   The harbours which made are described in my work
on British and Foreign Harbours' they were portion
of Kingstown, in Dublin Bay Donaghadee, Port Patrick,
Port Rush, Warkworth, Sunderland, East Hartlepool,
'                               I                                                       ;a

                    ;                              ;                                                         ;
                             ;                                  ;

Whitehaven nearly rebuilding Ramsgate harbour

Ponta Delgada, in the Azores.                                      designed harbours
                                   ;

                                      I
for Oporto the Mattozenhas Viana, Aveiro, Figuera,

and St. Ubes, for the Portuguese Government also for

Douglas, Castleton, Peel, Ramsey, and Laxey, in the
Isle of Man, for the local authorities; and Redoubt
Kale, in the Black Sea, for the Russian Government.

   xiii. London Bridge; Hyde Park, Kensington

Gardens, and Staines Bridges, besides finishing those
at Crammond and New Galloway, designed by my

father.

      laid out and carried through Parliament the
I
                                                I
Brighton Railway and the Blackwall Railway, in 1838;
also the Manchester and Liverpool Railway, in conjunc
tion with my brother George, in 1827. In 1838 de
signed the Central Kent Railway, which, by passing
through the centre of the county, connected all the
leading towns on the main line, besides reducing the
distance between the metropolis, Dover, and Folkestone

to the minimum.
41G AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

I also projected a line for the Great Northern in the
years 1844-45, which was admitted to he the best and
shortest line ; but it unfortunately failed in consequence

Iof the late Mr. Francis Giles not having completed the
parliamentary surveys.  laid down a railway be

tween Leeds and Carlisle, that would have materially

shortened the distance between the important manu

facturing town of Leeds, Carlisle, Glasgow, and the

north of Scotland ; a line between Leeds and Bradford,

and another between York and Scarborough. Another,

Icalled the North Wales Railway, between Bangor and

Port Dyllaen, where designed a capacious harbour

and docks, that would have been of the greatest advan

tage to Liverpool, avoiding the dangerous navigation
Ibetween that place and Port Dyllaen, and affording an
excellent point of departure for Ireland.  also made a

design for a new port for Holyhead, upon the principles

laid down by my father, that would have answered

the purpose far better, and have saved in a great

measure the expense that has been incurred by the

present ill-contrived harbour, and which has not an

swered the object intended.

  IIn company with my friend Mr. George Reming

ton, designed the direct London and Manchester
Railway in the years 1844-45 ; this line would have

reduced the distance between London and Manchester

to 176 miles, besides affording railway communica

tion to a number of the intermediate towns, such

as Bradford, Burton, Leicester, Congleton, and other

places that had not hitherto received the benefit of
direct railway accommodation. This line was pro

nounced by the Board of Trade to be the most important

and best laid down line that had been brought before

Parliament, and was strongly recommended by them ;

and it would have been carried, but unfortunately there

was another competing line by Mr. Rastrick, that was

ultimately abandoned by its promoters, who, before
                   RAILWAYS.  417

doing so, united with us ; but in doing this the refer
ence books containing the names of the owners and oc

cupiers along both lines became mixed, and the result
was, that seven miles of the reference of the competing

line was substituted for seven miles of our line, and vice

versd. This was fatal, and the Bill was consequently
lost; and this valuable line, almost the best of any
in England, could never be resuscitated. The North-

Western Railway, thinking that they were safe from all

competition, declined taking up the line, though their

interest imperatively called upon them to do so, and

further, would not unite with nor buy up the Midland

from Leeds to Rugby. The Midland Company then

determined to make an independent line to London,

and took the identical course laid down by Reming

ton and myself. They have become a very formidable
rival to the North- Western, and this is precisely a

similar case to that between the South-Eastern and

Ifthe London, Chatham, and Dover Companies.

the South-Eastern Company had only adopted my
Central Kent line, which was laid down in 1838,
                   cotommdeoncseod-- tthheeirLonpdroense, ntChaltinheam--,
before they had
and they promised

and Dover Railway would never have been made, and
the county of Kent would have been better served,

many millions would have been saved, and many thou

Isand unfortunate shareholders would have avoided ruin.
       laid down lines for the kingdoms of Sweden and

Portugal, which have been more or less adopted, and
projected a line from Odessa to Moscow. Also the London,

Brighton, and South Coast as far as Salisbury, and from

thence to Warminster, which has since been adopted.

A line from London to Birmingham, Leeds, and Car
lisle ; Leeds and Bradford ; Dumfries and Port Patrick ;
Newry and Enniskillen, in Ireland ; Bangor to Port
Dyllaen, North Wales ; Cannock Chase line, in Stafford
shire, through an undeveloped coal district, another of
418 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

my lines which has since been carried into effect. The

East Lincoln, from Lynn to Great Grimsby ; the direct

London and Norwich, from Bishop's Stortford to Thet-

ford, which would have shortened the distance between

London and Norwich and Yarmouth. All these lines

were laid upon the direct principle, that taking the
                                               is,

                                                               ;

                                                         if

                                                               it
shortest distance that the nature of the intervening

country would permit between the two termini this

principle now proved to be the correct one, and
a is
                 ahad only been acted upon before, we may readily con

                         it

                                  is
                                            a
ceive the vast amount of capital which would have been

saved, while the counties through which railways have

been made would have received much greater benefit                                       ;

whereas, by the system which has hitherto been
adopted, great number of unnecessary lines have been

constructed, and constant competition and rivalry

have taken place between the different companies, and

now, with reduced dividends and increased charges, they

find out their error, when  too late to be remedied.

Another most important error has been committed

by a too narrow gauge having been adopted. My
brother and myself, when we carried the Bill for the

Manchester and Liverpool through Parliament, in the

year 1826 --and this may be considered almost the very
commencement of the railway system -- after inves

tigating the width between all the various carriage

wheels, whether for goods or passengers, we decided that
the width of gauge from centre to centre of the rails
should be feet inches or feet. When Mr. George
8 8j

                    5

                          46

                                                           8^
                                                           6

                                                                      ;

                                                                                   74 4
Stephenson became the engineer for executing the

line, he decided that the gauge should be only feet
inches from centre to centre of the railway, for no

other reason than that the gauge between the old col

liery rails was feet        inches hence arose all the
subsequent difficulties. It was quite clear that feet
inches was too narrow. Brunel, seizing on this

mistake, proposed at once to make the gauge                                              feet
RAILWAY GAUGES.          419

from centre to centre of the rails for the Great Western

Railway. This was as evidently too much as Stephen
son's was too little. The power of a locomotive

engine is in proportion to its weight, and the greater

the weight the greater the power, acting as it does

by its adhesion to the rails ; and to increase the power

of an engine upon the narrow gauge could only

be done with safety by increasing its length; for if

it be done by increasing the height, the centre of

gravity would be raised also, and the motion of the

engine would be rendered unsteady; and by increas

ing the length the engine would be less adapted for
going round sharp curves. Now in the ordinary
traffic of goods, such as coals, &c., extraordinary

velocity was not required, and therefore the width of

the gauge was not of so much consequence, but when
it came to carrying passengers the case was wholly

altered. Latterly the coaches and mails had travelled

at the rate of 10 and 12 miles an hour, whereas

goods were seldom carried at the rate of more than
If3 miles an hour.
                    passengers were to travel by rail
way it would not be less than 12 miles an hour, and

therefore it was at length necessary to provide for this

velocity, and more ; otherwise, as there was a certain

prejudice on the outset against railway travelling,

the latter could not expect to have the preference.

But when it was ascertained, as it was at the

trial of engines upon the Rainhill plane of the

Manchester and Liverpool Railway, that the imperfect

locomotives of that day could go at the rate of

30 miles an hour, the whole case was changed; the

carriage of goods, which at first was most important,
gave way to that of carrying passengers, and it was
evident that the whole system of locomotion, whether

of goods or passengers, must be absorbed by rail

ways. It was therefore more especially necessary that

the question of the gauge should be most carefully

                    2E2
420 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Iconsidered.  may be answered, certainly, that the

improved locomotive engines upon the narrow gauge
realize a speed of 50 to 60 miles an hour, and this

is fast enough for anything ; but then this can

not be done without incurring greater risk than

upon a broader gauge. The Great Western realize a

speed of 45 miles an hour without the least risk, i. e.

including stoppages, whereas the narrow gauge does not

do more than 35 to 37 miles an hour, and that probably

with a greater wear and tear of the rails. A medium

therefore between the two gauges, that is 5 feet 6 inches

or  6 feet, instead of  4 feet 8^ inches   or 7  feet, appeared
to  my brother and      self the proper   gauge
                                                 ; and if such

had been adopted we should never have heard of the

7-feet gauge, and the 5 feet 6 inches or 6-feet gauge

would have been universally adopted, to the great

advantage of all.

    Before leaving railways, it may be proper to say

something about the atmospheric system. When an

experiment was made on a large scale and succeeded
very well, it was subsequently reduced to practice

upon the Dublin and Bray Railway, between Kingstown
and Dalkey, a length of about 3 miles. Here it

succeeded perfectly ; the steepest incline was com

pletely mastered, and the smoothness and luxury of
travelling were unequalled. Brunel afterwards took it

up, and employed it upon the South Devon Railway.
There it succeeded also perfectly as far as speed and

luxury of travelling were concerned. The difficulty

however of making the valve in the exhausting tube
was so great that it was ultimately abandoned, after

having incurred great expense, and the locomotive

system was again resorted to. The Croydon Railway

also adopted  but gaveit, it,       up for the same reason as
                                it
the South Devon. My brother and myself were much

taken with this system, and made several of the steam

engines for   that answered their purpose perfectly,
             ATMOSPHERIC RAILWAY-- DRAINAGE.                                                                 421

and we thought that by a little more perseverance in
the difficulties complained of might have been over
                                              a
                                                       it,
come, but the proprietors would not listen either to
Brunel or ourselves. The Stephensons made dead

isset againstand, taking the facts at the time, perhaps
     it
they were right but                  very rarely that new inven
          it,                        it it

                          ;              a

            I
                         it
                               a is
tion succeeds at the first or second trial: requires time

to ascertain the defects, and to study more minutely

the remedy, and, after little while, the cure for the

evil found out.      should not be surprised ulti
                                              if

                                                               :
mately the atmospheric system comes to life again

indeed, the very strongest opponents of have already

adopted      in London, with certain modifications, for

conveying the mail bags in London from the General

Post Office to some of the railway stations, with con
siderable success, and Mr. Rammell made an experi

mental line of this kind at the Crystal Palace. The
defects in the original lines were principally those of

workmanship, and can be remedied by degrees, as
                                     a
                                                         a is

                                                                I it is
always the case whenever principle   sound, for

only requires perseverance to achieve ultimate success.
   xiv. Drainage of lowlands upon large scale

have carried into effect in several instances already
described. The completion of the Eau Brink Cut, the
designing and making the Norfolk Estuary Cut below

Lynn, and the Marshland works, by means of which
from 350,000 to 400,000 acres of land are drained;

the Nene Estuary Cut, by which about 150,000 acres
of land are drained; the improvement of the Witham
between Boston and the sea, by which the drainage of

about 250,000 acres has been materially improved the
Ancholme drainage, by which 50,000 acres of low
lands have been well drained; altogether amounting
I
                        I

                                                        is

                                                                                                          ;
to between 800,000 and 900,000 acres.

   xv. may also say that have embanked from
the estuaries of the Ouse, the Nene, and the Witham,
about 6000 acres of fen land, which now more or
422 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

less under cultivation. I have also laid down a plan,

at present being carried into effect, by which 32,000
additional acres will be embanked from the estuaries of

the Ouse and Nene ; and another plan for embanking

45,000 acres from the estuaries of the Welland and

Witham; indeed, my original plan of 1837 was for

embanking from 150,000 to 200,000 acres of land
Ifrom the estuaries of the Ouse, Nene, Welland, and

Witham, and the Great Wash ; and have no doubt

tmbheoasattdidnveadtluimatobeletthheicsokuwinnigltlyd--obemae.lflferciIctehadls,aoagnroidcbutaaltniunoertadhleralanlanArdgc--et wafnoidlrl

Iembanking 32,000 acres from the north side of the
estuary of the Thames, near Shoeburyness.  believe

that, in addition to this, three times the amount may be
taken from this and other parts of the Thames estuary.

Let to these be added the lands which may be saved
from the estuaries of the Humber, the Forth, the Tay,

the Clyde, the Solway, Morecambe Bay, and the Mersey,

altogether from 500,000 to 600,000 acres of land may

be reclaimed, or three large new counties may be added

to the kingdom, capable of producing annually an addi

tional supply of 3,500,000 quarters of corn, which, at

31. per quarter, would, after deducting 20s. per quarter

for the cost of production, add a revenue of about

G,000,000/. a year to the country. A great deal may

be done in this way also in Ireland. We should, how

ever, deduct a million a year for the first fifteen years

to cover the cost of embankment. The clear annual

gain would be 5,000,000^. a year to the country ; or,
putting it in another light, the land so acquired would
maintain an additional number of inhabitants. Besides

this, large tracts of lowlands adjacent to these estuaries
might be greatly improved in their drainage, in con
nection with the reclamation works, which would add

considerably to their produce.

The execution of all these works, besides draining
WATER SUPPLY.  423

Ithe quantity of land have stated, and more than

doubling its value, has also very greatly improved

Ithe navigation.

      also extended the Newry Ship Canal nearly two
miles, which has a depth of 16 to 18 feet, and is 130 feet

wide, with an entrance lock 50 feet wide. I deepened

the old canal to Newry, so that large vessels, drawing

nearly 16 to 17 feet, can come up to the town.
   xvi. Soon after my father's death, in 1821, when

I may be said to have entered my professional career
Iupon my own account, began to consider the water

question ; that is to say, the best mode of economiz
ing water, so that those districts where it might be
most required could be supplied, as far as the physical
geography of those places would render it practicable.
Generally speaking, there falls a certain quantity of
rain in every district during the year, and this, with

more or less regularity, at particular seasons and times.

In some places the rain is periodical, and falls in the
course of three or four consecutive months; in other

countries it falls at different times, principally, how
ever, in the winter and autumn months. Now after

the periodical rain is over, the whole country is de
prived of water throughout the remainder, or about
three-fourths, of the year. The remedy for this is to

construct reservoirs in the most convenient places, upon
such a scale as the wants of the country may require ;
in these reservoirs the surplus waters should be stored

during the periodical rains, to serve as a supply in the
dry season, not only for domestic purposes, but for

irrigation, navigation, &c. ; the reservoirs should, in
some cases, be covered, and in others open, even to the

extent of making them large lakes. They should be
provided with proper sluices and culverts, open or

covered, as may be required, and best adapted for

distributing the water in the most beneficial manner.
   Having obtained a sufficient supply, the next point to
424 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

be attended to to take care that the water shall not be
        :

                   is,
polluted in order to effect this, in all thickly-peopled

districts the sewage should not be discharged into the
river or watercourses, but into separate, isolated, and

well-ventilated tanks, and then be deodorized by mixing

    with earth, or subjecting to any well-known process
it                        it

for this purpose, and the refuse should be distributed

for manure; thus the sewage, instead of being a nuisance,

will become valuable for agricultural purposes.

    By these means, regulated according to the particular

circumstances of each case, the whole question, viz.

economy of water, which so very important in every
                        I
                                      is
respect, solved.        have long endeavoured to make                    it
    a
             is
clearly understood, but in England we are slow to move

in new direction. The enemy must be at our doors

before we are prepared to meet him, and then we begin

in earnest. Such has been the case with the water

question we carried drainage almost to the utmost
        :

extent, so that the rainwater was discharged into the
adjacent watercourses and rivers with the greatest

rapidity and was carried off to sea, and we thought

not a   moment    that  the day           wcroyulwdasc,om" eOnwlyhegnet  we
should  want it.   The  universal                                        rid
of the water, and all will go on well." At the same

time all the sewage matter was discharged into the
watercourses, the cry being, " Only get rid of the
sewage, and our cities and towns will be healthy, and

we shall hear no more of  it              little thinking that the

                              ;"

streams would be polluted, and that water when most

wanted would not be forthcoming, and that even the

moderate quantity that could be obtained would be unfit

for domestic purposes. The Thames and all the great

rivers and streams were converted into common sewers,

threatening to spread pestilence around them. The

water that was to be obtained for domestic purposes

was polluted to such an extent, that the malaria caused
by the foul state of the watercourses was increased by
SEWAGE--WATER SUPPLY.                         425

drinking the contaminated water that we fondly ex

pected we had got rid of. At last the public opened

their eyes, and asked how all this had arisen ; then com
missioners of all kinds were appointed by the Govern

ment to investigate these important questions ; and

what is the result ? Precisely that which I mentioned

years ago, namely, 1. That means must be established

for economizing water and for affording an ample

supply at all times. 2. That all sewage matter must

be diverted or be prevented from being discharged into

the watercourses. 3. That as far as practicable the

sewage matter must be utilized for manuring the land.

All these three propositions, which constitute the whole

elements of these important questions, are now being
carried into effect by Acts of Parliament; better late

than never, for if these terrible evils had been allowed

to exist much longer the consequences would have been

Imost fatal.             wrote two letters to ' The
   About four years ago

Times,' which were printed in that journal, embodying

Imy views upon this subject in a detailed manner,
according to the principles above described.  am

extremely glad that at the eleventh hour the subject

is beginning to be thoroughly understood, and it is

to be hoped that now the proper remedy will be
Iemployed ; it is contained in the principles that
Ihave recommended for the last forty years.
                                              may
not perhaps claim the merit of the whole ; but this I
Imust say in justice to myself, that have contributed
Iin some degree to direct attention to the subject, and

most sincerely trust that, having been made conscious
of its importance, the public will not be content until

the question has been thoroughly sifted, and the evils

complained of successfully remedied. Up to the pre
sent time neither compensating reservoirs for the due
supply of water during the dry seasons have been

made, nor, with a few solitary exceptions, has the
426 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

sewage been excluded from the rivers, nor have the

watercourses been properly improved so as to pre

vent inundations of the adjacent lowlands. In fact,
the authorities have only just begun to get an idea of
what is required to obtain an ample supply of good
water; but the more they investigate the subject, the
more they will find that only upon a right under
standing of the principles above recommended can this

supply be procured. Sewage matter has now been
recognized as a fertilizing agent, and the only points
undecided with regard to it are the best modes of
deodorization, so as not to injure its manuring value,
and the most suitable method of applying it to the
land, whether in a liquid or in a solid state.

   With regard to water for domestic use, considerable
progress has been made : the water is conducted into
covered reservoirs, where it is excluded from the action
of the atmosphere ; it is also filtered, so that all the
alluvial and tangible vegetable matters are excluded ;
and the best method of separating from it those inju
rious ingredients with which it is chemically combined
has made great progress. These, no doubt, are con
siderable advantages gained, but unless the means of

obtaining an ample supply be used, the other advan

tages will be comparatively of little service. It is true
they will be valuable as far as they go, but if there be

a deficient supply of water, there will remain a great
deal to be remedied, therefore it will be necessary to

secure an ample supply by means of open reservoirs.
( 427 )

CHAPTER XI.

The Formation of Natural Breakwaters -- The Society of
    Civil Engineers -- The Education of a Civil Engineer --
    Some Hints on Practice -- Estimating.

In the introduction to my work  on ' British and Foreign
                                method by which shoals
IHarbours,' have suggested a

formed by alluvial deposits in the open sea might be

converted into effective breakwaters, so as to become
harbours of refuge ; or the means of removing them

altogether. It is well known that many existing

shoals form, to some extent, safe roadsteads at certain

times of tide, e.g. the Goodwin Sands, the banks out

side Yarmouth Roads, the banks off the coast of Holland,

and many other places. These are generally formed off
alluvial shores, where the meeting of opposirg currents
causes an eddy or line of stagnation, and tne alluvial

matter held in suspension is deposited, forming a bank,
according to the extent, width, and direction of the eddy.

In some instances, as in the case of deltas of rivers, and

along coasts where the waters are densely charged
with alluvial matter, these shoals, by continual deposit,
are raised to the level of high water of neap tides,
when a succession of marine vegetation appears on the

surface, finally becoming a rich grass marsh ; except
under special circumstances, the land is seldom raised

higher, and where there is no flow of tide the same

result takes place at the medium level of the waters.
   In other cases, as in the open sea, where the waters

are exposed to violent agitation by the wind, these
deposits not only rarely reach the level of high water,

but, except under particular circumstances, seldom

exceed the level of half-tide, and often the banks
423 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

remain many fathoms below low water, though even

in their lowest state they are far above the bottom of

the sea. As all these banks are composed of alluvial

matter, we can only ascribe the different levels, first,

to the variable quantity of alluvium with which the

waters are charged ; secondly, to the degree of agita
tion to which the waters are exposed ; and thirdly, to

the velocity and extent of the opposing currents which

Iproduce the banks. Having thus stated generally the

causes that produce these banks, now come to my

proposition, namely, the best mode of utilizing them

for making harbours of refuge, or the method for

clearing them away where they may be injurious.
   With regard to the first, it is only necessary to
increase the power of the depositing eddy by means of

artificial works, to raise the banks to any height re

quired; by this means they may be rendered perma

nent breakwaters at the least expense. Secondly,

where these shoals are injurious they may be removed

by diverting the course of one or both currents, so that
the line of stagnation shall be destroyed ; the action of
the sea will then gradually remove the shoal. Thus we

have the means in our power of converting these sand

banks into most valuable harbours of refuge, or of re

Imoving them where they are found to be injurious.

This do not pretend to call an invention, but simply

an idea, and I am not aware that it has been suggested

before. Modern engineers have not sufficiently directed

their attention to the construction of harbours. It is a

very simple affair to build piers or breakwaters of any

extent, provided the requisite means are forthcoming,
but it is a totally different thing to ascertain whether,
after these works have been constructed, they will

answer the purpose originally intended.

IWhen President of the Institution of Civil Engineers,
during the years 1845-6-7,  drew up detailed

reports of the history of the profession from its
                CIVIL ENGINEERS.                                429

commencement in Great Britain up to that time,
showing what had heen done in every department,

by whom, and at what date. These reports are pub

lished in their 'Transactions.' Subsequent presidents

have to some extent adopted a similar course ; but with

all due respect to them, they have not taken that large

and scientific view of the profession of a civil engineer

which it is imperatively necessary to adopt in order to

keep the profession up to that high tone which its

importance requires, not only for its own credit, but for

the benefit of the world at large. Perhaps there is no

profession (with all proper respect to others) that has
conferred so much benefit upon mankind as that of the

civil engineer. Its objects are clearly defined in the

two mottoes belonging to the Smeatonian Society of

Civil Engineers, which was the first of the kind esta

Mbetliyslhmneeed,nsianunrddth;mis" ycofSualnvthtrey<r,,vhcnreaai vmineKglpya, oTor"ivgOvirnmesanteiadrenwxuyimtVherovSLmp)((oetniafjdt.eoeOnrae,.
Up to that date the profession of a civil engineer may
bvmeioecushsaaidntoictsot"hha--atvmetimebneeewwnheuonwketnoroeilwesdnimwipniltyGhrkentahotweinBr riathsaainn"dvs; u, plgraeasr

masons, bricklayers, carpenters, blacksmiths, &c. But

those who so    called us  "wmoeucldhanhiacsve"  entertained a  very
different idea                                                  been
                 of the                           if they had

forced to dispense with their services. Let me ask how

could the various and complicated operations which

alone render modern trade, and therefore modern

civilization, possible, be carried on without the aid of

the mechanic, alias the civil engineer ?

   The object of the Smeatonian Society was merely
a social gathering in the form of a club, to assemble

the members at dinner at certain times, when they

could discuss in a friendly manner the various sub

jects connected with their profession, and to endeavour

to obliterate all those rivalries and jealousies which
430 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOIIN RENNIE.

unfortunately are too common amongst professional
men of all classes. The society was to serve as a rally

ing point for the profession, and it was believed that

when their members increased sufficiently (for there
was little more than a dozen engineers in the kingdom
at the time who were counted as such) the society
might extend its usefulness by reading papers, discus

sing them, and publishing them regularly to the world,
in the same manner as the already established scientific
societies ; this has since been done by the Institution

of Civil Engineers. But I think the time has now

arrived when that Institution should be enlarged, and

take a wider sphere. It has hitherto been confined too

much to the class practising purely engineering works ;
but the mechanical engineers now form a body which

must be treated with every deference. It is very

true that the latter are freely admitted into the insti
tution, but there seems to be a tacit understanding
amongst the former that they should not attain the

honour of becoming presidents and vice-presidents. It

is true that the late Mr. Field, a most distinguished

mechanical engineer, was elected president, and served

his time ; but this, I believe, arose more from his having

been one of the earliest members of the institution
than from any respect due to the particular class of
the profession to which he belonged. Now there can
not be a greater mistake than this. Every member of
that institution, to whatever class he belongs, from the
moment he is elected should be in every respect upon
precisely the same footing as those who are now con
sidered the governing class, and the ablest man should
be chosen from each grade as president or vice-presi
dent alternately, so that each department should suc
cessively occupy the chair. Also, instead of choosing
the president and council by rotation, according to
seniority, the acknowledged best men in every depart
ment should be chosen as officers. And further, the
              CIVIL ENGINEERS.  431

institution thus regulated should have the power of

giving certificates of competency after the candidates

for admission have been duly examined by independent

examiners; and until they have received these certi
ficates they should not be allowed to practise. This

is the rule in every other learned profession, and there
can be no reason why it should not be adopted by the

engineers. It is the only method by which it can take

rank amongst the learned professions ; and as no other

requires more scientific knowledge, or is entrusted with

a greater portion of responsibility or a larger amount
of trust, or where failure becomes more disastrous, it is

quite clear that no man should be allowed to practise

it unless he has passed a proper examination, and has

received a certificate of competency from proper

authorities.

   Against this proposal it may be argued, that many
illiterate men, although of great original genius, would

be excluded if their competency were tried by such a

test. My reply let them not be tried only by theit

ordinary rules of scientific books, but also by thea
                    is,
general principles which the candidate professes, and

let those principles be tested, to prove how far they are

in accordance with sound philosophy. A man like

Stephenson or Brindley, although illiterate, may under

stand these principles perfectly, and yet may not be

able to explain them. Nevertheless, let him be ex

amined, but in different manner from the ordinary

routine, and  will soon be discovered whether his

profession and his practice are founded upon true

Ifmechanical and philosophical principles.
        these examinations are properly conducted every

possible objection will be abolished, and no scientific

educated engineer, or any illiterate person of true
scientific genius, will be prevented from pursuing the

profession, whilst only the speculator and charlatan

will be excluded. By this means the public will be
432 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

assured that the works for which they subscribe the

funds will be conducted in the best manner, and most
probably to a successful termination. At present, the

system upon which public works are carried on is

wholly wrong. There is no system. Any man
without business, competent or not, dubs himself
engineer, starts a project, well or ill founded, as the

case may be, generally the latter, and issues a pro

spectus to the public, to obtain the necessary funds
to carry his proposal into effect. Next he gets a con

tractor to back him by taking a certain number of

shares, provided that he has the contract at his own

price. The shares he looks upon as good for nothing,

and therefore adds so much more to his ordinary

profits, so that instead of receiving 10 or 12 per
cent. upon his cost price, which is the usual rule of

the trade, he gets double, with the shares into the
bargain, all of which is added to the capital of the
undertaking; and in order to carry into effect this

wasteful policy, the contractor generally stipulates for

two or  three of   hafisterow" nhinsomintineereesstst,o   be   placed   upon the
board,  to " look                                        so   that, in
                                                                         point of

fact, he pays himself pretty nearly what he likes. The

engineer, who ought to be his master, loses all control

over him, and in many cases becomes little better than

his servant. This is certainly a most discreditable state
of things, and has been the cause of the most wasteful

expenditure, and the ruin of many valuable under

takings, and it will always continue to be the case so

long as the present system prevails.

The real object of the civil engineer is to promote

the civilization of the world, by the proper application

of all the great mechanical means at his command, and

to take a high, independent position as a scientific man,

thoroughly versed in his profession both theoretically
and practically, and wholly independent of contractors,

and all sinister influences. Unless he can do this, he
       EDUCATION OP A CIVIL ENGINEER.      433

never will be held in that esteem and respect, or take

that high position without which no professional man

can properly discharge the duties that he owes to

himself and to the public.
IAgainst what have said it may perhaps be urged
Ithat
       assign too high a place to the profession to

Iwhich my father and myself have had the honour to

belong ; but think that when the subject has been

Icalmly and fairly considered it will be generally

admitted that have not done so without reason.

IWithout wishing for a moment to depreciate the merits

of any other body of men, think it will be conceded

that the objects proposed by the engineer, and the ac

quirements, knowledge, and experience that he must

possess before he can practise successfully, are at least

equal to those of any other profession, particularly after
the practical examples exhibited to the world of the

great benefits that engineering has already conferred

upon mankind. Therefore are we entitled to be ranked

amongst the most learned professions, and to receive

Iall the honours they have most justly earned; and

trust the time is not far distant when this justice will

be accorded to them.

  IBefore concluding this sketch of my career will
Ioffer a few observations as to what consider, from

my experience, the best plan of education for the
profession of a civil engineer. Hitherto there has been

no regular system. A youth leaves school about the

age of seventeen or eighteen, without any previous
training, and his parents, thinking that he has got
a mechanical turn, as it is termed, decide at once
to make him a civil engineer, whether he likes it or

is fit for it or not. They then send him, with a con
siderable premium, to an engineer of some standing
and practice, who, unless special conditions are made
(and very few engineers will make them), will not un
dertake to teach him the profession. The pupil is sent

                                       2F
434 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP SIR JOHN RENNIE.

into the office, and placed under the direction of the

principal assistant, who directs him to do whatever is
required, if he can do   it,
                                 it ;whether drawing, writing,

or calculating, or anything else and he wishes to
                                             if

                                                                :
learn anything, he must find out himself neither
Ifthe principal nor assistant explains the principles or
reasons of anything that done.is             he prove to be

steady, intelligent, and useful, keeps the regular office

hours, and evinces a determination to understand

thoroughly the why and wherefore of every kind of

work that brought before him, and by this meansis
acquires some practical knowledge, he will soon attract
the notice of his employer, and will be gradually trans

ferred from one department to another, until the expi
ration of his pupilage, which varies from three to four

years; then,a        he really has acquired competent
                                             a
              is if
knowledge of the profession, and the employer thinks

his old pupil can be of further service to him, he                 is

Ifengaged at moderate salary, to be employed in such
capacity as he fit for.         during his pupilage he has

ismade but little progress, nothing beyond mere routine,
he discharged with certificate according to his
                         a

merits, and sent into the world, to find his way forward

as best he can.

Now should be understood that the pupil only
    it

learns one part of his business, such as the construction

of railways, canals, improvement of rivers, docks,

drainage, harbours, and waterworks, and the buildings

connected with them but there another and very im
portant part of civil engineering, namely, the mechani
                     ;

                                         is

cal department, of which he remains totally ignorant.
Nor will he gain any insight into the raising of coals,

iron, or any other geological product. Now, in order
to form good civil engineer, in my opinion
    a

        it

              is

                                                       it
                                                               it

                                                                                is
absolutely necessary that he should be well acquainted
with all these different branches. To this may be

replied, that        not necessary an engineer should be
EDUCATION OP A CIVIL ENGINEER.       435

acquainted with all departments of the profession, but

only with the one to which he intends more particu
larly to devote himself. Now this is a very great mis
take, for they are all so intimately connected, that

without having a general knowledge of the whole you
cannot practise in any one department with complete
success; for whenever you have to rely upon the re

sources of another department you can never make

Isure of being thoroughly well served, unless you are
yourself a tolerable judge of work.  repeat, then,

that an engineer who has studied only one department

cannot be termed properly educated. And the ques

tion arises, what is the best mode of education for a

Ipupil to obtain this multifarious, and, as contend,

absolutely necessary, information, to enable him to
practise the profession of a civil engineer in the most

enlightened, scientific, and practical manner ? My
answer is this : Let him first get a sound elementary
education in the several departments of arithmetic,
algebra, geometry, natural philosophy, geography,
geology, astronomy, chemistry, land and hydrogra-

phical surveying, as well as grammar, English com
position, history, French, German, and Latin, according
to the improved system of modern education; every
youth of ordinary talents has a tolerably fair know
ledge of these at seventeen or eighteen. What then
should be the training for an engineer? First let
him go through the best course of modern education
at his command, including the elements of geometry,

mathematics, and the physical sciences, not excluding
Latin and Greek, in spite of the prejudice against
them now frequently expressed. Then let him be

apprenticed for two or three years to some good
steam engine and machinery manufacturer, where he

should learn to make drawings and calculations,

handle tools, make models, steam-engine machinery,

and put machinery together. By this means, if he

                                                                          2F2
436 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

applies his mind to it properly, he may become a prac
tical as well as theoretical mechanician, which is the

soundest basis for good engineering ; indeed, without

this it is impossible for an engineer to be thoroughly
successful, but being well grounded in this most
important knowledge, all the others will become com
paratively easy. Having gone through this apprentice
ship, let him bind himself for three or four years to some
well-known civil engineer, of large practice in railways,
docks, harbours, waterworks, canals, drainage, rivers,

&c. In this office the pupil will learn everything

connected with these departments, and as they are

founded more or less upon practical mechanics, he
will soon find that from his previous mechanical edu

cation he has already acquired considerable knowledge
of them, and it will only be necessary to apply those

principles, modified according to the particular circum

stances required : in fact, the principles are the same,

although applied upon a larger scale.

   In laying down a railway the young engineer will

have to consider the particular local, geographical and

geological features of the country through which the

line is to pass, and the extent of mechanical power

that will be necessary to work it effectually, consistent
with the cost of making the cuttings and embankments.

Here is a purely mechanical question, which the

pupil's previous instruction will enable him to decide,

Ifand which he could not do without this instruction.

        it be a question of improving a river, the
quantity of water flowing through the inclination of
                                      it,
                                                         it
its bed, the extent and levels of the district which has

to drain, will reduce themselves to the laws of the pres

sure and movement of fluids, which are explained under
the general theorems of hydraulics and hydrostatics,

supplemented by certain rules derived from practical

experience, such as friction, &c.

Again,  if     be the making of harbour, the student
                                   a
           it
               CONSTRUCTING HARBOURS AND CANALS.                                   437

must first thoroughly examine the nature of the locality,

isthat         its geographical position and geological cha
          is,
racter. As regards the former, whether the harbour

to be at the mouth of river, whether that river
                       a
                          a
                                                                  a
discharges its waters into bay, or through pro
jecting exposed line of coast where the main tidal;
currents run continuously and rapidly past it. With
regard to the latter, whether the adjacent coasts be flat
and alluvial or elevated, but still composed of soft

alluvial or sandy and calcareous soil, easily abraded
or worn away by the passing currents or whether they
be composed of the harder or primary rocks. He must
                                a a;
                                                                  a
also carefully consider the strength and the direction

of the currents. All these various conditions must be

carefully weighed before coming to decision.

   In constructing close harbours, the same observa

tions must be made. Each of these cases requires
totally different kind of treatment, and the correct

method can only be ascertained by thorough inves
tigation and knowledge of the local circumstances,

such as winds, tides, currents, coasts, &c., so that the

harbour when constructed may afford every facility for

ingress and egress, safety when within, and not be
liable to any deposit.

   In order to give the requisite supply of water to

canals         imperative that sufficient reservoirs should
        it

            is

                                             ; if

                                                               it

                                                                               is
be established chiefly at the high level possible, also

at each intervening ascent and descent but                                         most

desirable that there should be only one high level,

and generally speaking this may obtained; but when,

from particular local circumstances, this cannot be
done, then the high levels, even at considerable extra

expense, should be reduced to as few as practicable.

The same may be said with regard to railways, but

in the case of canals  it       always absolutely neces

                            is

sary that there should be reservoir space to supply

the greatest amount of lockage that may be required
438 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

during the season when there is the least quantity of
rainfall. The rainfall in any given district may always
be ascertained by proper rain gauges ; and whenever it
has been found that there is no probability of obtain
ing a sufficiency of water to pass the amount of trade
that may be expected over any given length of canal,
then the high level must be lowered sufficiently to
obtain the required supply. When, from peculiar local
circumstances, this cannot be done, then it will become

necessary to erect steam engines of the requisite power
to pump back the water from the lower to the higher
levels. But as a rule it will be found, that by laying
out a canal properly, and by storing sufficient water
to answer all the required lock supply at proper places,
pumping back will only be necessary in extreme cases.
This, however, is a question of detail that will be go
verned by the local circumstances of each particular
case. With regard to the construction of canals, that
must be regulated by the quantity of trade to be passed,
and the charges that it will bear ; but, within certain

limits, the larger the canal the better. In the case of
ship canals for seaborne vessels, it is advisable to con

struct them wherever they can be made at a reasonable

cost, and there is traffic enough to pay a fair interest

upon the capital.

   In the drainage of extensive districts of lowlands,
whether bordering upon rivers or otherwise, it is the

better plan, with some exceptions, to divide the low
land from the highland waters, and to discharge them

by separate outfalls ; because if they are both dis

charged by one outfall, the highland water, coming

from a higher level, and naturally having the greatest
velocity, will force its way first to the outfall, and until
it is discharged the lowland water cannot get off, but
will accumulate upon and inundate the adjacent lands.

Again, if only one outfall be provided, a much more

 extensive system of main and interior drains will be
DRAINAGE.  439

required, as these latter must serve as reservoirs to
contain both waters until they can be discharged by

the common outfall ; but by keeping them distinct

from each other, the highland water may readily be
discharged into the upper part of the rivers or water
courses, whilst the lowland water may be made to dis
charge itself at the lowest point the outfall will admit
of, and will get off before the highland water can reach

it. Moreover, the highland water, being discharged
so much higher up the watercourses or rivers, will
scour out their channels as well as the outfall, prevent

them from filling up, and preserve them in the best

state both for drainage and navigation. These catch-
water drains for the highland waters will also be found
very useful for supplying the lowland districts with
fresh water for cattle, domestic purposes, and irriga

tion during the summer and dry seasons, when fresh
water is so much needed for the lowlands. This
system was first introduced by my father, in 1805,
in the drainage of the extensive district of lowlands
bordering upon the river Witham, between Boston
and Lincoln, amounting to about 150,000 acres.

    Generally speaking, before attempting to improve
the interior drainage of any lowland district, it is
necessary, in the first place, to examine the state of
the outfall, and how far it is capable of improvement ;
before this is ascertained it is impossible to lay down

any effectual plan. In order to make the outfall
effective it should be improved to the greatest extent

practicable, so that the low-water line or level may be
reduced to the lowest point. Having done this, the
interior drainage may be laid out accordingly. When
this is combined with the catch-water system above

described, the drainage may be rendered as complete
as possible, as far as it can be upon the natural prin
ciple of gravitation. When the water cannot be dis
charged from the outfall at all times by gravitation,
440 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

we must enlarge the main and tributary drains, so
that they may serve as reservoirs to contain the drain

age water during the time that the outfall sluice is
closed in consequence of the water in the river or

the sea, where the outfall sluice may be placed, being

higher than the level of the water in the main and

interior drains. No land can be considered as properly

drained unless the surface of the water in the adjacent

drains can be kept from 2 to 3 feet below the surface

of the adjacent lands at all times. There must be

no stagnation of water; at the same time there must

always be the means, as far as practicable, of supplying

the land with that proper degree of moisture necessary

for nourishing the soil, either from the direct rainfall or

from the water discharged into the catch-water drains

from the adjacent highlands ; and if these be not suffi

cient, then they may be supplemented by reservoirs of

the proper dimensions attached to them. The best
mode of arranging this of course, a matter of detail,
keeping always in view the great principle of a
I
       I

                               is,
                                                         is
thorough drainage and an ample supply of fresh water.

The system that have above explained                                            based upon

the soundest principles of theory and practice, and

therefore feel no hesitation in recommending it.

With regard to the sewerage and drainage of towns,

the same principle may be adopted, modified according
to local circumstances. The drains here will require

greater fall or inclination. The sewage should not be

discharged into the watercourses, but into separate

depots at proper distance from the dwellings. These
it

                  aa

                                it it
                                                                             ;
depots should be thoroughly ventilated, and the sewage
deodorized by mixing with earth, or some other suit
able substance, that will not impair its value, and then

    may be sold for manure and thus instead of

becoming  nuisance  may be turned to profitable

account.

   All rivers in densely populated countries should
WATER SUPPLY OF TOWNS.  441

have their flood waters stored in capacious reservoirs,
with proper sluices, in the main or adjacent sub
sidiary valleys, so that during the dry seasons there
may be always an ample supply of good water for

domestic and agricultural purposes, irrigation, and navi
gation. The reservoirs will also be advantageous in
preventing the too frequent inundations and consequent

devastation caused by floods.

   In waterworks gravitation should be adopted wher
ever practicable, so that the source of supply shall be
placed at such an elevation that it may command the
highest part of the buildings to be supplied, thus all
artificial power for pumping will be avoided. But in
most cases, except where natural lakes can be found, it
will be necessary to make settling or filtering reser

voirs, from which the water when sufficiently pure
may be delivered into the supply reservoirs, and both
of these should be capacious enough to contain a suffi
cient supply for a month, more or less, according to the
particular local circumstances. Last, but not least, the
quality of the water for the proposed supply should be
thoroughly tested chemically, in order to ascertain its
purity ; it should be as soft as possible, and be free from

vegetable as well as all other matter prejudicial to
health; and it must be obtained in sufficient quantity to
guarantee a supply of thirty gallons a day to each
inhabitant of the town, with the means of augmenting
the supply at the same rate for any increase of inhabi
tants. The conduit which is to supply the service re
servoir should be covered throughout, as well as the

service reservoir, which of course should be occasion

ally cleansed ; the other, or settling reservoir, near the

fountain head, need not be covered if made large

enough ; that also should be cleansed as often as is

necessary.

    Where the water cannot be supplied by means of
gravitation, then the artificial method of pumping by
442 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

steam engines or water wheels, or other means, must be
adopted; but in this case also settling, filtering, and

service reservoirs must be employed, as already de

scribed. It is unnecessary to remark that in all cases

the reservoirs and conduits should be made thoroughly

water-tight and impervious to any drainage water from

the adjacent districts.
   Docks may be divided into two classes, viz. floating

and dry docks ; the former may be designated as
enclosed spaces filled with water, penned up to such
depth as may be required for floating vessels of all
classes. These docks or basins must be rendered water

tight, and in most cases it is necessary to surround

them with nearly vertical walls, to economize space

and to enable vessels to come alongside and discharge

and receive cargoes.

   With regard to the situation of these docks and
designing the plans for them, this depends upon

the local circumstances and the requirements of the

particular class of vessels that they are to accommo
date, and the trade that is to be carried on in them.

Without a thorough knowledge of all these circum

stances it is impossible to give anything like a correct

Iopinion as to their dimensions, mode of designing
them, or any other particulars.  may say generally,

however, that as these docks are always situated con

tiguous to some river or harbour, either with or with
out the tidal ebb and flow, the position and direction of
the entrances to the docks become of the greatest

importance, in order that they may not be too much

exposed, and that vessels may be enabled to enter and

depart with the greatest facility ; and in such part of

the river or harbour where there is the greatest depth
of water and the best channel outwards and inwards.

There should also, as far as possible, be the means of

supplying the basins with clear water, in order to
diminish the amount of deposit within ; there should
DOCKS AND WAREHOUSES.  113

also be a smaller or entrance basin adjoining the outer
lock, the level of water in which can be more readily
adjusted with that of the adjacent river or harbour,

so that vessels may be taken into the docks with the
greatest despatch out of the reach of the currents in
the outer harbour, and without the necessity of lower
ing the surface of the water in the inner basin.

   Floating docks in general should have dry docks
attached to them, for the purpose of repairing vessels ;

and these dry docks should communicate by means of a
tunnel or culvert with the tidal river or harbour.

   With regard to the warehouse accommodation for
receiving and delivering the different classes of mer
chandise brought to or taken out of the vessels fre
quenting the docks, these should as far as possible

be made fire-proof, and should be properly adapted
for the reception of the different articles placed in them,
so that they may be stowed away in the most con

venient manner and be readily accessible. Where space
will permit it is desirable to keep the warehouses as low
as possible ; by this means the damage in the event of
fire will be greatly reduced, and the expense of taking
in and delivering goods considerably diminished, and

the cost of construction lessened also.
   Between the warehouses and the edge of the dock

there should be sufficient space for a road all round the

warehouses ; and between the road and the edge of the

dock there should be landing-sheds, so that the cargoes
of vessels, when discharged, may be placed there, to

be examined and sorted, and from thence taken away
to their destination, or delivered into the warehouses,

as occasion may require. All inflammable articles,

such as oils, naphtha, turpentine, tar, pitch, jute, hemp,
flax, &c., should be stowed away in low warehouses

or covered sheds, completely isolated, and with the
interior divided into distinct compartments, with access

round each. These compartments should be no larger
414 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

than necessary. Railways should be laid along all the

quays, and should be carried through the ground floors
of the whole of the warehouses, while the upper floors

should also have rail or tramways through each division

of goods, with the necessary turn-tables at their inter
section with each other. These railways should be

worked either by steam power or horse traction, as

may be most advisable. All the quays and warehouses

should be supplied with a sufficient number of cranes,
of the requisite strength to lift and stow away the

heaviest goods. These cranes should be worked either

by hydraulic, steam, vacuum, manual, or animal power,

as may be most advisable ; in fact, they should be so
designed that they may be worked either by the one or

the other, as may be required.

Fresh water should be laid round all the quays and

warehouses, through iron or glazed earthen pipes, and

there should always be an ample supply, either for

vessels frequenting the docks, or for extinguishing

fires ; and for this purpose capacious tanks or reservoirs

should be established at the most convenient places ;

and if these reservoirs cannot be made at a sufficient

height so as to command the highest warehouses, then

the water should be forced through the hose attached

to the supply-pipes by steam or other power, as shall

be found most advisable. Gas, also, in properly fitted

pipes, should be distributed over the quays and ware

houses, and the movable lights should be as few as

possible ; those that are used should be properly
guarded, so that all risk of fire from them may be
avoided. No lucifer-matches should be permitted in
any part of the establishment, nor should smoking be

allowed. By these means the probabilities of fire will

a

                            if,
                                         it
be reduced ; and  notwithstanding these precautions,

fire should break out, there will be the most ample
provision for extinguishing in the shortest possible

time, and with the least damage to the property.
DOCKS AND WAREHOUSES.  445

   With regard to architecture, that strictly belonging
to the office of the civil engineer is of the most simple
character. The buildings should be laid out in the best

manner, and the most convenient for their respective

purposes, and thoroughly substantial. At the same

time, their exterior appearance should possess a certain
degree of symmetry and dignity, so as to impress upon
the spectator the idea that they are thoroughly adapted
for their purpose. The materials should be chiefly iron,
stone, and brick ; and timber should only be used when

absolutely necessary. At the same time, although it is

not altogether necessary, the civil engineer should
have a thorough knowledge of the five orders of archi
tecture, and the mode of applying them ; the principles
of constructing and equilibrating arches of all kinds

must be thoroughly understood ; and if he intends to

combine the practice of domestic and public architecture
with that which is only strictly necessary for civil

engineering, then he must enter more largely into the

subject, and study the different ancient and modern
styles of building.

   Surveying and levelling will also form an impor
tant part of his duties. In order to understand them
it is necessary that he should know thoroughly plane
and spherical trigonometry, and the calculations neces
sarily connected with them. He should also have a
certain knowledge of astronomy, to enable him to

calculate the tides and other phenomena connected

therewith, and to be able to lay down correct charts
of any harbour or sea coast, with the soundings,

currents, and winds prevailing there.

   Geology will form another important department
of study, without which he cannot understand the
nature of the materials that he will have to deal with,

such as stone, lime, cements, earths, &c. ; the angles at
which they will stand in making deep cuttings and
embankments; the best and most durable kind to be
446 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

employed in any particular work, the proper mode of
working and how to place in the best position so as
            it,
to resist the effects of the atmosphere or running water,
the concussion of waves, &c, in the most effectual;

manner. The study of geology will further enable hima
to account for the formation of shoals and any given
line of coast, together with the operation of the currents;

                                        it

                                         if
upon them, and the best mode of remedying their

disastrous effects also the best plan for designing

and constructing harbours on each particular coast or

situation.

Again, by having  thorough knowledge of the

strata and formation of any given district of country,
he will be enabled to ascertain where water may be

found, and in what quantity and he practises mining,

he will be able to predict with tolerable certainty where

different kinds of minerals may be obtained, such as

coal, iron, lead, copper, tin, gold, silver, &c., and the

mode of working them to the greatest advantage.a is
   In fact, geology combined with mineralogy he will

find to be of most essential service in almost every

depEamrtbmaneknmt eonftsc. iv--ilTehnigsineearninogt.her department of engi

neering which requires good deal of skill and judg

ment, particularly along an exposed open coast, where

lowlands are to be protected against the encroachments
                                            to select the line of
of the sea. The first point
;

            is
              it
                                a

                                     it is
embankment in such manner that there shall always

be in front of a good foreshore, so that the force of

the sea may be broken before                reaches the embank

ment that to say, where practicable, to have cer           a
tain extent of green or outlying marsh in front of
                                                                 it,
so that the embankment when completed will seldom

have head of water to contend with at high tide of
a

above six or seven feet. And even with this moderate       a
depth at high water, when exposed to the action of
heavy gale of wind, there will for three or four hours
            EMBANKMENTS.                                                                                                                         447

be a considerable broken sea, calculated to do a great

deal of damage, if the embankment be not properly
constructed. Now, if the embankment have a good

green foreshore in front, with sea slope of about 5 or 6
to 1, well sodded up, a facing of clay about 18 inches
thick, 6 feet above the highest level of spring tides,

the top being 6 feet wide, with back slopes of 2 to 1,
with a back ditch 10 feet from the foot of the inner

slope, the interior of the embankment being composed

of sound earth well rammed or pressed together, so as to
make it solid -- an embankment of this kind will be able

to resist such a pressure as we may ordinarily expect it

to be exposed to.

   There may be extraordinary cases where this will not
be sufficient. When these occur it will be necessary to

pave the surface with stone, about 9 inches thick, or

bywith fagots. The formerhowever, decidedly the

             it
                  it

                                        a
                                               is,

                                                                is

                                                    if

                                                                                           a
best plan, as will be permanent, whereas fagots are

Ifconstantly rotting, and require renewal.
the sea shows  tendency to carry away the

foreshore,  must be prevented, by means of jetties

so disposed as to collect the alluvial matter held
the sea water in suspension. These,
                                            properly
designed and constructed, will generally have the

desired effect.                             deep and the

   In cases where the water outside

sea face of the embankment may be exposed to head

of water of 12 feet and upwards, much greater precau

tions must be taken to guard against accident. The

sea slopes of the embankment must be increased to
   or to well faced with clay and paved with

stone, having the foreshore in front well protected
with jetties. In fact, no two cases will be alike each
7
            9
              a
                      1,

                                                    it
                                                             is

                                                                                                                                              :
must be treated separately according to the particular

local circumstances, and therefore          impossible to

design      proper plan for any embankment without
knowing all the local circumstances. The general prin
448 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

ciple is that the sea face of the embankment should
never be less than from 4 or 5 to 1. In some par

ticular cases a less slope will do, say 3 to 1. This, how

ever, certainly depends upon local circumstances. The

base of the outer slope should be particularly watched,

and if any crack appears to be forming, it should be

immediately stopped by jetties carried out as far as

necessary. In forming embankments it is usual, when
it can be done, to take the earth from the outside of the

sea slope, but this should never be done within less than
10 yards from the base of the slope, and these "floor

pits" as they are termed, should generally not exceed
12 to 18 inches in depth, and be increased in width in
proportion to the quantity of earth required for the
bank ; at every 10 or 15 yards, in the longitudinal

direction, the earth should not be removed, but left

to form small cross banks between the floor pits, so

as to prevent any current being formed in them ;
thus these floor pits will soon be filled up by the

alluvial matter brought in by the tide, when the outside

slopes of the bank are neither exposed to the heavy lash

of the waves nor to strong currents. Then if they are

covered with good grass sods properly laid on and
Ifbeaten into the face of the bank it may suffice, but not
otherwise.  this should not answer the slope must be
increased and, if necessary, paved with stone as above

mentioned. When good clay cannot be obtained to

face the bank, then the best of the earth that

can be got must be employed, mixed with straw,

well puddled with water, and laid upon the surface
of the bank in a moist state about 18 inches thick, and

then faced with stone about 9 inches thick, well
rammed edgeways into it. In cases where it is neces

sary to protect any line of coast against the ravages of
the ocean, the measures to be adopted will depend
upon the form and geological character of the coast to

be so protected, whether low flats and alluvial, or cliffs
                     EMBANKMENTS.      449

composed of rocks more or less hard, and easily acted
upon by the waves, rain, and atmosphere. In the
former case it will generally be found that the coast

is surrounded by extensive flat sands, and that the
water holds a large quantity of alluvial matter in

suspension. The great object, therefore, should be to

cause this alluvial matter to be deposited in such
form and in such places as are best adapted to our

purpose. Now this may generally be effected in an

inexpensive manner, considering the object to be
attained, by a series of jetties, either composed of
stakes wattled together with fagots, or lines of loose
stones disposed in such a manner that they shall
break the rising and falling waters, and make them

stagnant between the jetties, so that they may de

posit their alluvial matter. In the first instance

these jetties need not be raised more than two feet
above the level of the sand, and when the sand or

alluvial soil has accumulated up to the top, they may
be again raised to a similar height, and so on until

the soil in front of the coast has been converted into

a green marsh ; thus there will not only be formed

a protection to the coast invaded by the sea, but
                     gained in front of it and embanked
fresh  land may  be  is impossible to explain the precise
from   the sea.
                 It

disposition and direction of these jetties and works

without a thorough knowledge of the locality, and

such circumstances as its exposure to winds, tides, and

currents. The principle however is to check the cur

rents gradually, and in such a way as to prevent any

strong current from being formed; for if a new and
strong current should be created, not only will the
alluvial matter not be deposited, but the works them
selves will be carried away, and all the labour and

expense will be wasted. It is generally advisable that

such works should be commenced near the shore, and

worked downwards towards the sea ; thus, if they are

                                   2o
450 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIK

properly managed, no deep pools or strong currents
will be formed behind them ; and the required process
of filling or silting up will proceed regularly seaward,

always increasing the protection required, and obtain

ing additional land as they proceed.
   In some cases, where the sea is heavy, it may be

necessary to have stronger jetties or works to relieve

and protect the minor ones above described ; but these

should only be resorted to in places where the others
are insufficient, or in greatly exposed situations;
wherever the minor works will suffice, as they will in

most cases if properly applied and constructed, the less

heavy works are resorted to the better, as the great

object is to lead not drive Nature ; thata      to work

                            if

                                               is,

                                                                        a
with her instead of against her. By this means
few bricks and stakes will do great deal more than

far greater and more expensive works. So far as

regards low alluvial coasts, these, properly managed,
will be found comparatively easy to deal with.

When we come to rocky coasts that are wearing

away by the combined action of the sea below and the

rains and atmosphere above, and where there     little
                                           a
or no alluvial matter held in suspension by the waters,is

that might be collected so as to form protecting       is
                                                              by it
deposit at their base, then we must adopt a different
system, but not altogether ignoring the other when

can be made useful. In this latter case we must secure

the bases of the cliffs at least up to high-water mark
means of retaining walls, where the rock itself not

hard enough to resist the action of the sea. These walls

need not be carried higher than absolutely necessary.

In some cases mere footing will do in others, the wall
aa                       ;
                                         ;
     if
                      ;                 it
may be carried up to half tide and in others up to the
full high-water mark and although the rock may be

naturally soft, yet its surface be protected by harder
stone, even of very moderate thickness, will be quite

sufficient to resist further encroachment by the sea. As
                   EMBANKMENTS.                     451

these retaining walls will be founded upon a base of solid

Irock, there is very little fear of their being under

mined ; therefore, when said before that it would

be necessary to carry these retaining walls up to high-
water mark, it must be understood as applying only

to those rocks that are easily abraded by the sea.

There is another point to be attended to. The base

being secured, we must look to the cliff above. Here,

from the effect of rains, the water frequently cannot get

away, accumulates behind at the top, and sinks through

the fissures, when partly by hydraulic pressure and partly
by the effects of frost, large masses are detached and fall

below ; and as this is continually occurring, the progress
of decay goes on increasing. Having secured the base,

the next thing, where practicable, is to slope off the
upper surface of the cliff, so as to prevent it from over

hanging, and then to make a drain at the back to carry

off any water that may lodge there. By these means, if

properly carried into effect, the base of the cliff being

protected against the sea from below and rainwater

from above, there is every probability that it will be
preserved, in all ordinary cases. In extraordinary cases

additional measures must be taken to meet them upon

the same principles. With regard to retaining walls
of brickwork or masonry, these should be always in
excess of strength beyond the pressure, whether ver

tical or lateral, that they may have to resist. When

the   pressure is   simply lateral, then the mean   thickness
     wall built                                    the mean
of                 of masonry and brickwork --

thickness, generally speaking, of the main body of
the wall -- should be about one-fourth of the height,

besides counterforts at the back at certain distances

from each other, regulated according to the particular

circumstances. These, upon the average, including the

thickness of the main wall, will make the total mass to

be equal to nearly one-third of the total height. My

father frequently made these walls curved in the front

                                 2g2
452 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

as well as at the back, the front being struck from a
radius whose centre was level with the top of the wall,
and of such a length that the face of the wall should
batter one-fifth of the total height; the back of the
wall should be struck from a centre at the same level

as the other, but a little longer, so that at the base
the wall might be about 2 feet thicker than at the
top, in addition to two or three footings of 6 inches
each ; and the base of the wall was made to incline
backwards, according to the radius from whence it was
struck.

   These walls, when they are to rest upon alluvial
soil, must be founded upon a platform composed of
piles of a sufficient length and thickness, driven at
right angles to the line of the foundation, until with
the blow of a ram weighing 15 cwt. and falling 20 feet
they will not move one-eighth of an inch. These piles
should be driven in regular rows, longitudinally and

transversely, about 3 feet apart, and hooped and shod

with wrought-iron hoops and shoes. At the front,

immediately under the tie of the wall, there should be
a row of grooved and tongued sheeting piles driven
close together, and to the same depth as the others,
about 6 inches thick, having a waleing or longitudinal
brace 6 inches thick and 12 inches wide, well bolted in

each side of the top of the sheeting piles. The loose
earth should be taken out to about a foot in depth, and
the space filled in with stone or brickwork to the level
of the pile heads, which should be carefully trimmed,
then covered with sills about 12 inches square, well
spiked down to them. The spaces between the sills
should be well faced with brickwork, and the whole
surface should then be covered with 6-inch plank,
properly spiked down to the sills below. Upon this
platform the masonry and brickwork of the wall should
be built. The wall should be carefully backed up as it
proceeds with sound earth or clay, or clay mixed with
EMBANKMENTS.  453

one-sixth of gravel or concrete, as shall be deemed most

advisable. These curved walls, if properly constructed,

are stronger and more economical than the ordinary

walls.

   In some cases, as in that of Sheerness, for example,

the foundation is so bad that a totally different plan

must be adopted. At Sheerness it was necessary that

the base of the walls should be increased, distributing
the weight over a wider area, so that each superficial
foot of the superincumbent mass should have a larger

bearing, thus greatly relieving the pressure over every

part.
   The foundation upon which the walls were built was

as bad as possible, being composed of nothing but
loose running silt and sand. Upon such a foundation
walls of the ordinary kind would not have stood ;
my father therefore saw the necessity of designing

some new construction, upon the principles above
mentioned. He had previously adopted something
similar for the docks at Great Grimsby, in Lincoln

shire, in 1786, which design was carried into effect with

great success. The walls at Sheerness and at Great

Grimsby were built both upon the same principle,
modified according to local circumstances. Sheerness
docks were finished altogether in the year 1826, and

I Ithey have stood ever since.

       believe that have now enumerated all the chief
points to which the education of a civil engineer should
be directed. Whilst he continues in an engineer's

office, whatever business is brought before him, he

should always endeavour to thoroughly understand
the reasons for which such and such a work is pro
posed to be made, and the principles upon which it is

to be constructed ; and if he finds, according to his

previous education, difficulties either in the principle

or construction, he should modestly state his doubts to

his superior ; if no explanation is given, he has simply
454 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

to do as he is ordered, making notes of bis doubts,

and when the work is carried into effect he will then

be able to ascertain how far he was right or wrong.

ifIf the work turns out to be a failure, his previous

calculations will show him that he was right ; but

the work succeeds, his calculations were wrong, and

he should carefully go over them again to ascertain

his error. He should follow the same process when

he has to design and carry into effect any work upon

his own responsibility, and if he is in doubt as to any

point, let him consult some one of his professional

brethren in whom he has confidence. When he is

consulted on similar occasions by another engineer, let
him give his advice and opinion to the best of his
power ; by this means he will gain the respect of his
colleagues, and every one will be ready to help him

when required.

   Let him be particularly careful about his estimates ;

and after he has estimated fully the probable cost of

a work, let him add an allowance of quite 15 per

cent, for contingencies, which in all engineering works
are so numerous and varied that it is almost impossible

to foresee them.

   We should always recollect that the great object of
all engineering works is to produce a fair return for

the capital expended upon them, or, in other words,
                       If,
that they should pay.       after due calculation,
                                              it
found there no chance of that, they should not be
   ;                                               is
                                                        it
      is
undertaken for although may be very gratifyingit            is
to the professional reputation of an engineer to have

executed great work,   it      but poor consolation to
a                              a
                           is

his subscribers to find that their money has been com

paratively thrown away without any adequate return.
                                       think
Upon these grounds, therefore,                better
                  is,

                                    I
that the engineer should confine himself strictly to his

business, that    of designing and estimating any

proposed work in the best possible manner to ensure
CONCLUSION.  455

the object intended. Let those who are most com

petent ascertain whether there is a sufficient prospect
of traffic to pay a good return for the required capital ;

and so long as the engineer executes the work for his

estimate, he cannot be blamed if the work does not pay
a sufficient return. In fact, the whole commercial

value of a work depends upon its cost, and therefore it

is so important that the estimate should be adhered to

as closely as possible, for if this be much exceeded the

commercial calculation falls to the ground, and then

Ithe subscribers have just reason to complain. Against

this have heard it argued that if correct estimates

were always made, and the ultimate cost of many
works was known beforehand, they would never have

been carried out, although notwithstanding the increased
cost they have finally proved to be very valuable. This
is certainly to some extent true ; many inventions and

discoveries have ruined the original promoters, yet

have ultimately conferred the greatest benefits upon
mankind ; and many enterprises that have ruined the
original undertakers have greatly enriched their suc
cessors. Still there can be no excuse for an engineer
knowingly underestimating the cost of a work ; he is

undoubtedly bound to make a fair, honest estimate of
every work committed to his charge, so far as his judg
ment goes ; having done that his duty is discharged ;
nothing further can be expected of him than to see
that the work entrusted to his care is strictly carried
into effect according to that estimate.

  ISince the summer of 1866 have done scarcely any

thing. The great crisis and subsequent panic that

Ioccurred at that time paralysed the commercial world.

  considered my advancing years (I was then seventy-

two), and the great hazard and uncertainty of carrying

Ion business, and thought it most prudent to retire.

After the harassing and anxious life that had led for
456 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

Iso many years, felt my health so shaken as to require

Icomplete repose. But hope, if God spares me, to be

still useful to the profession and my country, by com
pleting a work on the drainage of the fens and low

Ilands of Great Britain, and hydraulics generally.
also design to write a history of engineering, enlarged
from my Address to the Institution of Civil Engineers,

Iand a life of my revered father. All these I have

already sketched out, and hope to complete them, if

Iit please God to spare my life a few years longer.

   My apology for the present work is this : think it

is the duty of everyone who has led an active pro
fessional life faithfully to record the various works in

which he has been engaged, the failures as well as the

successes, detailing the causes of both ; for we fre

quently learn more from the former   than from the
                                     faithfully done
Ilatter. Ibelieve have in this book
Ithis. From unavoidable circumstances
                                       have been

obliged to trust entirely to memory while writing these

Ipages, having been totally precluded from consulting

notes or memoranda of any kind; hope, therefore,

Ithat any inaccuracies that may be detected by the

reader will be pardoned, though believe that in the
main my statements will be found correct.

  ILike others, have had to contend with professional

I Ijealousy ; but believe have on all occasions done
Ijustice to my rivals, and have never wilfully attempted
Ito injure anyone. Naturally of a very sanguine tempe

rament, am but too apt to view things in a favourable

Ilight, and to judge well of those with whom come in
Icontact ; as a consequence of this have often been
Ideceived by those in whom have placed the greatest

confidence. This sanguine disposition has been the
cause of many disappointments ; but it has also enabled

me to bear up successfully against failure, and still to
Ilook forward with hope to the future. Whenever a

misfortune has occurred have endeavoured to forget it
              CONCLUSION.                                                  457

Ias soon as possible ; always called to mind the words

of the great Duke of Wellington, who said, There is no

use in looking back and brooding over the past ; forget and       ;

apply your energies to the future, and do better next time.           it,
This many people either cannot or will not do hence
they succumb. Doubtless everyone has his trials, and
some are much better able to get through them than
others nevertheless, very little reflection will show
;             a
                      a;                                   !
       is
that what past cannot be helped, and that broodingit          by
over misfortune we do no good, but only waste our

energies and invite failure in everything else.
   The motto of life should be, Forward We must

expect to be checked, thwarted, and baffled in our

endeavours to attain success but these obstacles, instead

of totally arresting our progress, should serve only to
increase our energy. Like river, impeded in its course,
in silence waits till its accumulated strength sweeps the

oasbstrbuecftoiroen--fsroomshoitusldpatwh,e  and    flows on majestically
                                              make   every difficulty we

encounter  add to our strength,              in"st'etaisd  of increasing our
weakness.    Nevertheless, since                           not in mortals to

command success," we may sometimes struggle in vain
                                                    ;I
and fortune ever against us, we may be overcome at the        ;

last but even then we have this satisfaction -- we have                 is
;
fought good fight we have done the best we couldit ;             I
we have done our duty to the best of our ability, andis
that all that can be required of us. To do my dutya                          if ; ;

has been my endeavour through life and probably

had adhered to more strictly might have done
I aI
great deal better. Nevertheless, little asI                                have

done, should not have accomplished half so much had

not kept that one object in view, as far as my physical

and mental    poTwheersoldwomuoldttop, e"rmNitil     and this no small
consolation.                                        desperandum," should

be constantly on our lips, and should act like the spur

on jaded steed. Affairs are never so bad but they
a

might have been worse, and they may generally be
458 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR JOHN RENNIE.

mended by energy and perseverance, and a determina
tion to make the best of everything. We may not be

able to accomplish all we aspire to achieve; never

theless by refusing to yield to misfortune we shall
escape the reproach of cowardice and faintheartedness.

When we suffer a defeat, let us calmly consider the

cause of and nine times out of ten we shall find that
it

    is
               it,

                                                                  ;
                 through our own fault these lessons of experience

should be carefully laid to heart, and serve for our

                 future guidance.

                 have never deemed wealth desirable for mere per
II
                 sonal gratification, but only in so far as would have
    II                                                                     it

             ; itenabled me to help others, to promote the advancement

                 of science and the well-being of my fellow creatures                      I, ;

                 this would have conferred the greatest happiness upon

                 me, but has been denied by the Almighty Disposer

                 of events, and most probably with justice, that might
                                                                               it

be done better by other hands.                                             therefore humbly
                                                                     ;

                                                                        I
                 bow to the Almighty's decision and                      iIf  have done the

                 best could in His sight, am amply rewarded.
                                              I

                 however, most deeply regret that have not done more.
                                                                     I

                   return my most fervent thanks to the Almighty thatII
                 He, out of His great mercy, has allowed me to do the;
                 little have done and most devoutly hope that He!
                 through His Son Jesus Christ will pardon my short
                 comings and say with all reverence, Bless the Lord
                 for all His mercies

                 Dawlkh, December  9,  1867.
                                 ( 459 )

                                 INDEX.

                 arerdeen.                                  BRUSSELS.

Arerdeen, 10, 15.                          Bedford, Duke of, 199, 202, 205.
Acts op Parliament, 7, 159, 199, 200,      Bedford level, the, 158.
                                           Belem, 324, 326.
204, 205, 208, 209, 212, 223, 238, 399,    Belgium, 26.

405.
Adventures in Greece, 102.
Adventures in Portugal, 352.               Benching, 167
Adventures in Spain, 266, 269, 273.        Bentinck, Lord George, 208.

A-iEporiincaa,  78.                        Bentinck, Lord William, 207, 208.
                                           Berne, 37.
                an island, 141.
                                           Bessemer, 233.
                                           Beveland, St.,
Aga, a Turkish, 118, 120, 131.             Bey op Tunis,     317.  321.
Aisoloe, 114.                                               373.
Alrion plouk mills, 286.                   Bitter lakes, 139.
Alderson, Baron, 238.                      Blackett, 234.
Alexandria, 131.                           Black Sluice Commissioners, 221.
Alpheus, riyer,98.                         Blackwall Railway, 293.
Ancholme level, 224.                       Blast-pipe, 243, note.
                                           Blenkinsof, 233.
Ancona, 44, 46.                            Boats, rridge of, 129.
Antiparos, 107.
Antwerf, 29.                               Boiler, multiturular, 242.
Apollo, temple of, 119.                    Boston Corporation, 219.
                                           Boswell, Captain, 33.
Approaches, London Bridge, 183-188,        Boclton, 233, 413.

    197.                                   BoUYUkDerE, 126.

Aqueducts, 325, 369.                       Bradley, Dr., 5, 31.
Arches, 6, 22, 25, 32, 150, 173, 178-180,  Bradshaw, Mr., 237.

    189, 275.                              BBrraamgal,ey364f.all, 177.

Ardres, 27.                                Breakwaters, 165, 397, 410.
Argos, 82.                                 Breakwaters, natural, 427.
                                           Bridges, 6, 7, 22, 27, 30, 37, 40, 129,
Assouan, 144.
Astonishing the natives, 66.               150, 180, 275.
                                           Bridges, suspension, 244.
Athenjeum Clur, 250.                       Bridgewatkr Canal, 236, 237.
Athens, 73, 104.                           Brigands, 54, 55, 69, 92, 267.
Athens, Maid of, 105.                      Brindisi, 57.
Atmospheric railway, 421.                  Brindley, 237.
Atreus, hall of, 81.
Austria, 279.

Baden, 282.                                Bristol    and   Chepstow   Railway, 299.
Bairam, the, 124.                          ' British   and   Foreign   Harrours,' 20,
Baird, Mr., 254.
Balloon, 190.                                  75, 78, 198, 367, 415.
Bangor Suspension Bridge, 244.
Banks, Sir Joseph, 248.                    Brooke, Sir Arthur de Capel, 248.
Bar at Portsmouth Harrour, 411.            Bronsted, Chevalier, 61,
Barcelona, 274.                            Broussa, 121.
Barrier ranks, 216.                        Brown, Mr. James, 290.
Barrow, Sir John, 249.
                                           Bruges, 29.
                                           Brunel, 239.
                                           Brussels, 28.
460 INDEX.

                    ruckenshaw.                                   field.
Buckenshaw, 241.
                                                Coronation in Lisron, 341.
Bull fight, 329.                                Cort, Mr., 233.
                                                Crampton and Morris, 301.
Burge, Mr., 301, 310, 344.                      Choker, John Wilson, 156, 158, 195, 250.
Burney, Dr., 8.                                 Cronstadt, 257.
Business, introduction to, 4.                   Cross Keys rridge, 204.
Byron, Lord, 87.

Cadiz, 264.                                     Dagenham lake, 403.
Cairo, 132.                                     Danure, 377.
Ca lam ata, 87, 96.
Canals, 39, 132, 138,                           Daunemora, 305.
                                                Davy, Sir H., 31, 48, 248, 250.
                        237,  244,  261,  284,  Death of Mr. Rensie. Sen., 155.

308.                                            Demetrius, 64, 144.

Canova, 48.                                     DDDeievpnintvfgeorrdrSelluDl,iocec16k, 2y,1a9r28d8,6,,1294190,.9.22.
Cannock Chase Railway, 296.
Cardiff docks, 3C7.
Carlists,
Carrara,    264,  269,  271,  273,  275.
            151.
                                                Docks, 257, 403, 442-445.
Carthage, 369.                                  Dog, anecdote of, 39, note.
Cahtwright, General, 123.
Cast-iron dock gates, 165.                      Donaghadee, 19, 198, 415.
Cast-iron rails, 228, 240.                      Donaldson, Professor, 113.
Catchwater drains, 52, 219, 226, 240.           Downie, Colonel, 271.
Central Kent Railway, 300.                      Drainage, 51, 199, 421, 422, 438.
                                                Durham, Earl of, 292.
Ch^ronea, lion of, 101.                         Dutch   system of emranking,
Chapman, William, 243.                          Duty                                                                  217, 318.
                                                       on stone, 34.
Charles XV. of Sweden, 308.
Chatham dry dock, 22, 165, 410.                 Eastern Counties Railway, 293.
                                                Eau Brink Commissioners, 158, 199,
Chatmoss, 238.
Cholera, 270, 278.
'Chronicles of Old London Bridge,'                  212.

     193.                                       EEEddafguoeuB,rraitnielskm, p2dl4re0a.ionfa,g1e3,6.198, 309.
                                                Education for Civil Engineer, 433-455.
Church, General, 54.                            Egypt, 133.
Civil Engineers, Institute of, 428.             Elvas, 351.
Civita Vecchia, 46.
Clarence Yard, Portsmouth, 46.                  Emrankments, 132, 140, 214-218, 446.
CClgeaolpattarxa,'s184n,ee19d6l.e, 133, 145.    EEnmgriannekemrinegnt,wTohrkasm, es4,071-4922,6.196.
Corden, Mr., 299.                               Engineers, 294, 428, 431, 433.
Cofferdams, 175, 409.                           EEnnggiinneeeerrs,toDuthtceh,A3d2m3. iralty, 158.
                                                Engines (see Locomotives,                                             Steam
Cog-wheels, 231, 233.
Coimrra, 347.                                   engines).
                                                Engines, condensing, 171.
Commissioners, Eau Brink, 158.                  Engines, high-pressure, 171, 230.
Conduits, 127.                                  Ephesus, ruins of, 114.
Conolly, 252.                                   Epidauros, 79.
Conservators of the Thames, 7.                  Estlmating, 454.
Consort, the late Prince, 208, 358.
Constantinople, 122, 126.
Continent, tours on the, 26-30, 36-

154, 252-283, 304-399.                          Esthemoz, 350.
Convents, 68, 77, 82, 99, 104, 274, 275,        Evaporation, 142.
                                                Everest,  SrierfoGreeorPgaer, li3a. mentary
   330, 364.                                    Evidence                                                              com
Conway Suspension Bridge, 244.
Copei.and Islands, 18, 19.                         mittee, 185.
                                                Exeter, Marqnis of, 298.
Copenhagen, 314.                                Exhirition, International, 381.
Copias, lake, 101.
Coquet river, 291.
Corfu, 57.                                      Fens, drainage of the, 199.
Corinth,                                        Ferguson, Mr. James, 16.
Cornish   h7i1g. h-pressure   engines,    413.  Fernando, Dom, 325.
Corporation of London, 7, 173, 174, 182.        Fuxd of the Cloth of Gold, 27.
                                                 INDEX.                                           461

                        FISCHa.                              mattland.

FPFIiiSssHhcmhOaSNGtDrEeRaSeo*tnitHHz,iall8l,l8,31.8138.6.   Imperial Elisareth Railway,    377.
                                                             Inventions, new, 232.
Fleet, Russian, 252.                                         Ionian Islands, 54, 56.
Florence, 150.                                               Ireland, drainage in, 422.
Foley, Mr., 86.                                              Iron mines, 305, 310, 315.
Fontes, M., 325, 335, 339, 349.                              Irrigation, 137.
Foulkes, Sir William, 207, 211.                              ismaila, lake, 139.
Fox, Williams, and Co., 168.                                 Ivens, Mr. Thomas, 386.
Francis, Emperor of Austria, 281.
                                                             Jackson, Colonel, 249.
FiiEHiourO, 37.                                              Jackson, Sir John, 26.
Frere, Mr., 122.                                             Jeffreys, Mr., 191.
                                                             Jessop, Jonas, 167, 243, 285.
Fruit vessels of St. Michael's, 392.                         Jessop, William, 241.
                                                             John, King, 205.
Gallery   of Illustration,                 195.              Jom.iffe and Banks, 8, 34,
Gantry   crane, 287, 289. :
                                                                                            160,  192,
Gauges, railway, 239, 418.
Gell, Sir W., 48, 78.                                            200, 222, 226, 409.

Geneva, 36.                                                  Jones, Mr., 6.
                                                             Jones, Mr. R. L., 173, 178, 183, 185.
Genga, 152.
Geographical Society, Royal, 248.                            Ealavatha, 85, 101.
                                                             Kennet and Avon Canal, 20.
GGeeoolroggey,II4I4.,5. 20.                                  Kcrds, adventure with, 116, 120.
George IV., 34, 146, 195.
Girraltar, 264.                                              Lagoons of Venice, 41.
                                                             Lakes, 37, 101, 138, 139, 403.
Giles, Mr. Francis, 5, 17, 20, 21, 220,                      Land, reclaiming from the sea, 214,
    285, 297.
'  GrpsEy Queen,'       the,         302.                        216, 318, 322.

Gonsalvi, 50.                                                Leghorn, 151.
Gotha Canal, 308.                                            Leicester, Earl of, 211.
Gothenrurg, 305.                                             Leonardi da Vinci, 39.
Government workshops, 289.                                   Lerna, 183.
Granada, 265.                                                Lesseps, M., 140.
Grand Sluice, 221.                                           Levelling, 445.
GGrraenaitte,No1r0t, h1e5r, n14R4,ai1lw77a, y3,35.224, 297.  Lisron, 324.
Greece, adventures in, 102.                                  Litmation, 212, 296.
Greenlaw, Dr., 1.                                            Livadia, 100.
Grey, Earl, 189, 291.                                        Liverpool, Lord, 182.
GGruoivldefso, rdD,r.,                                       Locomotives, 230-234, 240, 302.
                          145.  58.                          London and Birmingham Railway, 243,

                        Lord,                                    247.
Gcimaraens, 363.
Gwilt, Mr. Joseph,                                           London and Brighton Railway, 245.
Gwynne, Nell, 287.              26.                          London Bridge, 172-192, 263, 407.
                                                             London, Chatham, and Dover Rail
Hackworth's engine, 242,
Harrours, 54, 152, 198, 274, 290, 333,                           way, 286, 301.
                                                             London streets, 194.
   336. 386, 399, 415, 437.                                  Lonsdale, Earl of, 236.
                                                             Lowther, Lord, 243.
Hartlepool, 291.                                             Lynn, 199, 212.
Hartley, Sir Charles, 338.                                   Lynn Corporation, 210.
HHeeltletospnonCto, lli1e2r9y. railways,                     Lcnzi, Count, 61.
                                           235.
High-pressure engines,               171,  230.              Machinery, 286, 287, 412.
Holland, 316-324.                                            Madrid, 271.
Hollingsworth, Mr. James, 5.                                 Magnesia, 115, 121.
Hollow walls, 164, 408.
Holyhead road, 244.                                          Mahmoud, Sultan, 123.
Hospitality, Portuguese, 353.
Humrer, 224.                                                 Madd of Athens, 75.
Hcskisson, Mr., killed, 246.                                 Maina, 88.
                                                             Maitland, Sir Thomas, 54, 58.
-102 INDEX.

                malaGa.                                                         portsmouth.

Malaga, 265.                                             norttifleet, 21.
Malta, 145.                                              Nyanza, lake, 138.
Mamelukes, 134.
Manchester and      Liverpool                  Railway,  OcaNa, 351.
                                                         odessa, surveys at, 377, 378.
246.
Man, Isle or, 290.                                       Old London Bridge, 172, 174, 181, 192.
Mantinea, 85.                                            Olympus, Mount, 121.
Manzanilla wine, 269.                                    O'Neil, Mr., 349.
Marathon, 102.                                           Oporto, 325, 331.
Marathonesi, 90.
                                                         Orcbomenus, 101.
Marrle, Parian, 106.                                     Order of knighthood, 308.
Marcet, Dr., 37.                                         OOssccailrl,atKiningg
Marine engines, 414.                                                            of Sweden, 307.
Marriage, Oriental, 123.                                 Ostend, 30.            engines, 413.

Marsh fever, 320.                                        Ottoman troops, 125.
Marshland drainage, 199.
Martin, Sir T. B., 414,                                  Ouse, 158, 206, 212.
Mayo, Dr. H., 3.                                         Ovar, 342.

Mediterranean,                                           Owen, Colonel, 332.

Mehemet Ali,       140.                                  PiESTUm, 147.
                133.
Melville, Lord, 17, 22, 158, 164.                        Palmerston, Lord, 196.
MMeenrtahi ySr trTayitdsvirl,rid23g1e. , 180.            Paris, 194.
                                                         Paris, cholera in, 279.
Messenia, 97.                                            Parliamentary committees, 185, 295,

MMeesttroonp,olMitra.,n8.Railway, 303.                   297.
Metternich, Prince, 280.                                 Parliament, PETrnoN to, 191.
Mezzofanti, 44.                                          Paros, qcarrtes at, 106.
Middle Level Corporation, 206, 210.                      Parthenon, the, 74, 75.
Milan, 39.                                               Patras, 64, 98.
Miletus, ruins of, 119.                                  Pedro, Dom, 339.
M n man. Dr., 3.                                         Peel, Sir Rorert, 247.
Mint. 30, 286.                                           Penn, Mr. John, 414.
MiTylENE, 109.                                           Perceval, Mr., death of, 16S.
Mola di Gaeta, 149.                                      Perkins, Mr., 172.
Moles, hollow, 46,                                       Peterhead, 11, 15, 17.                                       302, 340,
Montague, Mr., 85.                                       Petersrurg, St., 253, 256.
Monte Serrata, 275.                                      Peter the Great, 257.
Moore, 50.                                               Peto, Betts, and Co., 211,
Morat and Brenne lakes, 37.                              Ph3i4g8a.lian marrles, 96.
Morgan, Lady, 50.                                        Picture galleries, 150.
                                                         Piers, curved, 53.
MOREa, TOUR THROUGH, 77.                                 Piers, open, 147.
                                                         Piles for London Bridge, 175.
Moscow, 261.                                             Pinto, Basto, and Co., 344.
Mosques, Turkish, 125.                                   PiRj;us, 72, 75.
                                                         Pitfour, 16.
Murchison, Sir Roderick, 250.                            Pitt, Mr., 17, 22, 163.
                                                         Pius VII., 51.
BIycene, 81.                                             PPllyamteonu,thCoBunret,ak3w08a. ter, 165, 410.

NaprER, Sir Charles, 59.                                 PPoomlyp-beyn'us s,P1il2l9a. r, 133.
Naples, 53, 147.
Napoleon, Louis, 308.                                    Ponta Delgada harrour, 385-398.
Napoli di Romania, 79.                                   Pontine Marshes, 51.
Nash, 194.                                               Pont Sans Pareili.e, 27.
Natur Geforsche, 280.                                    PPPooorrrcttelPSaiaanitdr,icm1k3a,9n. 1u9f,ac20to. ry, 344.
NNeenoeropoounttf,al1l0,1.199, 205.                      Portsmouth Harrour, 410.
Newcomen, 228.
Newry snip canal, 423.
Nicholas, Emperor, 253, 259.
Nile, 131, 134, 137, 138, 141, 143.
Norfolk Kbtcary, 208, 218.
                                                                                      INDEX.                                              463

                   rORTCgaL.                                                                                 SWORD.

Ppoorrttuugguaels,e32r4,ul3l52.fight, 329.                                                  ScalO, 99.
                                                                                            Scheldt, the, 316.
Portuguese RaIlways, 339,                                                                   Schleswio, 312.
                                                 343,                                 345,  Schooldays, 2.

    353.              341.                                                                  Scott, Mr.,  s1u2r1y,ey18s8.in,
                                                                                            Scotland,
PoST wINE DISTRIOT,                                                                                                          17.
Prevost, M., 67, 73.                                                                        Screw steamers, 288, 413.
Friene, 11S.                                                                                Sea-walls, 448.

QUaRRIEs, aNcIENT EGyPTIaN, 144.                                                            SSeerrpasetnotpoclh,ar2m58e,rs2,87.136, 375.
Quarries, GRaNITE, 11.                                                                      Seville, 209.
QlarRIEs, marrlE, 106, 151.
                                                                                            Sewage, 425.
Kails, 240-242.                                                                             Sewers, 401.
Railways, 132, 228, 243-248, 284, 292,                                                      Shaw, Waring, mid Co., 341, 349.
                                                                                            Sheerness Dockyard, 22, 163, 40S, 453.
Ra2i9l4w, a2y99,ga3U2O8E, s,3392,393. 67, 415-418, 436.                                     Shelley, 2.
Railways            in Sweden, 304,                                                         Ship canal, 284.
Railway            mania, 294, 307.         307.
                                                                                            Sierra Morena, 270.
Rainhill, competition of engines at,
                                                                                            Simplon Pass, 37.

    240.                                                                                    Smeaton, 162. 193, 228.
                                                                                            Smeatonian Society, 429.
Raleigh Clur, 250.                                                                          Smirke, Sir Rorert, 195, 197.
Ramadan, the, 127.
Ramsgate Harrour, 161, 399.                                                                 Smyrna, 110, 121.
Reclaimed land, 421, 422.                                                                            Admiral, 60, 66.
Red Sea, 139.                                                                               Smyth,    at Rome, 48.
Regent Street, 194.                                                                         Society
Religious fanaticism in Turkey, 125.                                                        Society in London, 263.
Remington, Mr., 291, 404.                                                                   South Eastern Railway, 286 300.
Rennie, Mr. George, 167, 244, 263, 287.                                                     South Wales Railway, 299.
Rennle, Mr., Sen., 7, 20, 21, 31, 36, 145,                                                  Southwark Bridge, 7, 17, 22-26, 30,

162, 163, 165, 168, 172, 180, 193, 198,                                                         34.

    199, 205, 219, 286.                                                                     Spain, 264.
                                                                                            Spanish peasantry, 268.
Reservoirs, 127.                                                                            Sparta, 87.
Retaining walls, 451.
                                                                                            'SSSSpttaeapgztreziysioa,'n, asf1llro5oyo1ap. teinnoggfin,ews3a1r.,on133ra, il1w45a,ys1,54.294.
Rhone, 38.
Rigry, Messrs., 405.                                                                        Steam engines, 228-235, 287, 413.
Roads in Portugal, 344.                                                                     Steam engine, Watt's experiments
Rorrers            (stehee,Br2i4g0a. nds).
R' Roollcinkegt,'  machinery at             the  Mint,                                30.      with. 229.
                                                                                            Steam gin, the, 172.
Romans, the, 192.                                                                           Steam pumping, 161.
                                                                                            Steam vessels, 171, 258, 287, 302.
Rome, 47.

RRRRoooossyyeknaa,illllWySC,ooiulcDlniireat.,t,my31, 04Y248a4,. 8r.3d0,9.Stonehouse,        Stephenson, George, 235, 240, 247, 293.

                                                                                            Stephenson, Rorert, 32, 132, 180, 206,

                                                                                      170,    210, 247.

    410.                                                                                    St. Michael's,   3D85a, r3li9n8.gton          Railway,
                                                                                            Stockton and
Rurens, 29.
                                                                                                20, 235.
Rummery Mill, 199.
                                                                                            Stroganoff, Count, 126.
Russia, 252.                                                                                Suez Canal, 138-143.
Russian society, 256.                                                                       SSuunlin-aan,d-3p78la. net wheel, 229.
                                                                                            Surveying, 445.
Rutland, Duchess of, 196.

Sadlier, John, M.P., 310.                                                                   Sweden, 304.
Saldanha, Duke de, 325.                                                                     Swedes, character of, 314.
Salisrury, Marquis of, 182.                                                                 Swedish iron, 316.
Salyatierra, 349.                                                                           Swedish railways, 310.
Samuda, Messrs., 302.                                                                       Switzerland, 36.
Sandeman, Messrs., 333, 362.                                                                Sword manufactory. Toledo, 272.
Savery, 228.
464 INDEX.

                     TaGCs.                                 zoological.

Tagus, 324, 327.                              Vienna, water supply of,                384.
Taste, Committee of, 95.                      VignOlles. Mr., 236, 246.
Taygetts, Mount, 88, 92, 95.                  ^Vivian, 230, 233.
Teddington Lock, 193.
                                              VosnzzA, 99.
Telford, Mr.. 167. 180, 191,            198,  , I Walker, Mr. James, 209.
                                                   Wallace, Lord, 410.
221, 244, 247, 308.

Temples, 71, 74, 77, 82, 119, 136.
TTeerrrattcllinaa,,
                      53.                     Warehouses, 442.
                     Spanish,                 Warsaw, 262.
                               271.
                                              Wash, the, 204, 207, 214.
Thames, 193, 404, 422.                        Water-carriers in Portugal, 326.
Thames frozen over, 6.
Thames Street, 183, 185.                      Waterloo     Bfrieidlgde,of3,02-385. ,
Thames Tcxnel shield, 412.                    Waterloo,                               50.

Thoewaldsen, 49.                              Water supply, 127, 128, 369, 384, 401,
Thxrtle, Mr., 146.
Tide gauge, 401.                                  423.
Tide level or Thames, 193.
TimSah, lakE, 139.                            Water wheels, 193.
Tieyns, 81.                                   Waterworks, 441.
TToralepdaol,ga2e72. Square, 195.             Watt, 171, 228, 413.
Travellers Clur, 248.                         Welland, river, 207.         182, 184,         188,
                                              Wellington, Duke of,

Travels, 26-30, 36-154, 252-283,                   W2e4l6li,n2g8t2o. n Street, Strand, 195.
                                                   Werry, Mr., 112.
399.                                                Whidrey, Mr. Joseph, 166.
Tredcroft, 2.                                       Whittlesea Mere, 205.
Trevithick, 230, 233.                               Wildmere Fens, 219.
Trench, Sir F., 196.                               William IV., 189.
Trent,                                             Wilson, General, 253.
Trent   V22a4l.ley   line, 247.                     Wisreach Corporation, 202.
Tripolitza, 84.                                    With am outfall, 207, 222, 224.
Trophonius, cave op, 101.                          Wolves, 119.
Tunis, surveys in, 367.                            Wooden rails, 228.
Turks, 65, 71, 76, 79, 86, 99, 102,           , Woolwich Dockyard, 21, 22, 410.
                                                   Wright, Captain, 133.
    125, 126.                                      Wrocght-lron rails, 241.
                                                   Wyatt, Sir Philip, 196.
Tyne, 20.

Ures, St., 360.                               Xeres, 129.
Utica, 371.
Valley of the Po, 39.                         Yacht, Bcssun Emperor's,                258-260.
Vandyke, 29.                                  Yagers, Tyrolese, 147.
Vauxdall Bridge, 6.                           Yarrorough, Earl of, 227.
VVeenntic-pei,p4e0s. on conduits, 127.        Yeats, Mr., 8.
Venus, temple op, 71.                         York, Duke of, 177.
Vermlyden, 324.                               Young, Dr., 8.
Verona, 40.                                   Young, Mr. John, 204.
Viana, 337.
Vienna, 280.                                  Zante, 57, 62.
                                              Zoological Society, 251.

                                              THE END.

LONDON: PRINTED BT WILLIaM CLOWES AND SONS, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
E. & F. N. SPON'S NEW BOOKS.

                                            Crown 4to, cloth, 3&r.

Pyrology ; or, Fire Chemistry.
     A Science interesting to the General Philosopher, and an Art of infinite
      importance to the Chemist, Mineralogist, Metallurgist, Geologist, Agri
      culturist, Engineer (Mining, Civil, and Military), &c., &c. By WILLIAM
     Alexander Ross, lately a Major in the Royal Artillery.

                                             Crown 8vo, cloth, Ss.

Electricity : Its Theory, Sources, and Applica

     tions. By John T. Sprague, Member of the Society of Telegraph
      Engineers. With 91 Woodcuts and 30 valuable Tables.

                                             Crown 4to, cloth, 1$s.

The Draughtsman's Handbook of Plan and Map
      Drawing, including Instructions for the preparation of Engineering,
       Architectural, and Mechanical Drawings, with numerous Illustrations
     and Coloured Examples. By G. G. Andre, F.G.S. Member of the
      Society of Engineers, Assoc. Inst. C.E.

A Second Edition, royal 8vo, cloth, 12s. 6d.

    Practical Treatise on the Science of Land and

      Engineering Surveying, Levelling, Estimating Quantities, cW. With
       a General Description of the several Instruments required for Surveying,

     Levelling, Plotting, &c. By H. S. Merritt. 41 fine Plates, with Illus

       trations and Tables.

                               With Portrait, 8vo, cloth, 12s. 6d.

The Autobiography of Sir John Rennie, past
      President of the Institution of Civil Engineers, F.R.S., cW.,
       Edited by his Son, C. G. C. Rennie.

                                                Crown 8vo, cloth, 5J.

Arbitrations: a Text Book for Surveyors, in
      tabulated form. By Banister Fletcher, A.R.I.B.A., Author of
       ' Model Houses,' ' Dilapidations,' ' Compensations,' &c.

        32010, roan, 4s. 6d. ; or cloth, 3s. 6d.

Sports' Architects' and Builders' Pocket-Book of
useful  Memoranda and Prices for        1875. By W.    YOUNG,  Architect,
Author                                  Studies,' &c.
        of ' Picturesque Architectural

London: E. & F. N. SPON, 48, Charing Cross.
           New York: 446, Broome Street.
                                   Demy 8vo, with Cuts, in cloth, 51.

Engineering Papers.

By Graham Smith.

Mortar -- " Miller's Prize  "  PapCeOr,NTEtNTSRe:taining Walls -- Paper read at  the
Practical Ironwork --          Miller's  Edinburgh and Leith Engineers'          So-
                            "

Prize" Paper.                            ciety; with Addenda and Discussions

                                         I to each.

                               Folio, sewed, 2s.
Lectures on Water Supply, Sewerage, and
                                         the School of Military Engineering,
Sewage Utilization, delivered at
                                         Esq., M.A., M.D. (Oxon).
Chatham. By W. H. Corfield,

Practical                    Crown 4to, cloth,' 1$s.                   Drawing.

           Geometry and Engineering
A Course of Descriptive Geometry, adapted for the requirements of the
Engineering Draughtsman, including the Determination of Cast Shadows
and Isometric Projection, each chapter being followed by numerous
Examples. To the above are added Rules for Shading, Shade-Lining,
                                                      the Lining, Colouring,
&c., together  with practical Instructions as to     Drawings. By George
Printing, and  general Treatment of Engineering
S. Clarke, Lieut. Royal Engineers, Instructor in Mechanical Drawing.

Royal Indian Engineering College, Coopers Hill.

IVater  Supply.  --CTrohwen    8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.                     of  Sinking

                               present Practice

and Boring Wells, with Geological Considerations and Examples of

Wells executed. By Ernest Spon, Member of the Society of Engineers.
of the Franklin Institute, of the Iron and Steel Institute, and of the

Geologists' Association. Illustrated by 276 Diagrams and Engravings

to Scale.

                                                Folio, boards, 6s.

Handrailing Cut Square to the Plank, without

     Falling Mould, as discovered and taught at the Mechanics' Institution,
      Liverpool. By JOHN JONES, Stair Builder.

                                            Royal 32mo, roan, $s.

Sexton's Pocket-Book for Boiler Makers and
       Steam Users; comprising a variety of useful Information for Employer

       and Workman, Government Inspectors, Board of Trade Surveyors,
      Engineers in charge of Works and Ships, Foremen of Manufactories,

     and the General Steam Using Public. By Maurice John Sexton.

                                               8vo, sewed, is. 6d.

Iron Cylinder Bridge Piers.

     Being a " Miller Prize " Paper. By John Newman, A.I.C.E.

London: E. & F. N. SPON, 48, Charing Cross.
          New York : 446, Broome Street.
                              Third Edition, 8vo, sewed, is. 6d.      of

The Liverpool Waterworks.

     By Charles M. Beloe, M. Ins. C.E., Author of the ' Construction

      Catch-Water Reservoirs.'

Dry Rot.      Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.

A Treatise on the Origin, Progress, Prevention, and Cure of Dry Rot in

Timber, Remarks on the Means of Preserving Wood from Destruction

by Sea-Worms, Beetles, Ants, &c. By Thomas Allen Britton, late

Surveyor to the Metropolitan Board of Works, &c., &c.

                                Enlarged Edition, 8vo, cloth, iar. bd.

Our Ironclad and Merchant Ships.
    By Rear-Admiral E Gardiner Fishrourne, C.B.

                                  Just published, crown 8vo, gs.

Catechism of the Locomotive.

     By M. N. Forney, Mechanical Engineer. With Tables, 19 Plates, and
      237 Wood Engravings.

                                                  8vo, sewed, is.

The Advantages of the Separate System of
      Drainage. With a Description of the Works designed and carried out
     by the Author at the town of Halstead, Essex. By Edward Monson,
     A.I.C.E., Surveyor to the Acton Local Board.

  To be completed in 12 Monthly Parts, 4to, sewed, 5*. each, Parts I. to V.
                                                     now ready.

Mining Engineering.
A Practical Treatise on Coal Mining. By G. G. Andre, F.G.S., Mining

^Civil Engineer, Member of the Society of Engineers.      With Plates of

Practical Drawings.

AThe                        Imperial 4to, sewed, ys. 6d.

      rchitecture of the Cistercians.
By Edmund Sharpe, M.A., F.R.I.B.A. Plates. Being No. 1 of Illus

trated Papers on Church Architecture.

              8vo, sewed, 7s. 6d.
Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute.
No. 2. 1874.  Ml

                                            8vo, cloth, 15j.

Transactions of the Society of Engineers for
        1873.

London: E. & F. N. SPON, 48, Charing Cross.
          New York: 446, Broome Street.
                                            Foolscap 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Slide Valve. -- On Designing Valve Gearing.

     By Edward J. Cowling Welch, Memb. Inst. Mechanical Engineers.

      With Diagrams.

                                            No. 8. 8vo, sewed, 5-r.

Journal of the Society of Telegraph Engineers.
       Including Original Communications on Telegraphy and Electrical Science
      Published under the Supervision of the Editing Committee, and Edited
     by Major Frank Bolton, Hon. Secretary ; and George E. Preece,
       Secretary.

Air Second Edition, crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

      as Fuel ; or, Petroleum and other Mineral

     Oils Utilized by Carburetting Air, and rendering it Inflammable. By

      Owen C. D. Ross, Memb. Inst. Civil Engineers.

                                Fourth Edition, i2mo, cloth, 3s.

The Practical Millwright's and Engineer s Ready

    Reckoner; or Tables forfinding the Diameter and Power of Cog-wheels ;
     Diameter, Weight, and Power of Shafts; Diameter and Strength of
     Bolts, &*c. By Thomas Dixon.

                                                         4to, sewed, 3s.  Re

The "Steel Mc/nnes" Patent Pneumatic

     action Brake. With folding Plates.

                  of --Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

                  Use Steam.
AEconomy in                                        Statement of
             the

the Principles on which  a  Saving  of Steam      can best be  effected.  By

Frank Salter, B.Sc.

                         8vo, cloth, 1or. 6d.

Proceedings of the Association of Municipal and
Sanitary Engineers and Surveyors. Volume             1873-4. Edited byI.,
                                                   Honorary Fellow of        0
Lewis Angell, Memb. Inst. C.E., F.R.I.B.A.,                                     v

King's College, London, President of the Association.

                              Royal 8vo, cloth,*H^^    Illustrated
Spons' Engineers' and Contractors'

Book of Prices of Machines, Tools, Ironwork, and Contractors' Ma
terial.

London: E. & F. N. SPON, 48, Charing Cross.
          New York: 446, Broome Street.

