WILLIAM WHEWELL, D.D.

                MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.

     AN ACCOUNT OF HIS WRITINGS

   WITH SELECTIONS FROM HIS LITERARY AND
                 SCIENTIFIC CORRESPONDENCE.

         BY I. TODHUNTER, M.A. F.R.S.

                                   HONORARY FELLOW OF ST JOHN'S COLLEGE.

                       1031111111:  CO.

MACMILLAN AND

                      1876.

[All Rights reserved]

            Qtamhri`ug: O'

PRINTED BY C. J. CLAY ILA.

 AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS

         DlwTSflés'rl

         v.l

                                       PREFACE

         THE late Dr Whewell died on March 6th, 1866. He had

         appointed as executors of his will two Fellows of Trinity
         College, Mr Mathison, then Senior Tutor, and Mr L. Hammond,
         then Senior Bursar of the College; but no person was specially
                                                        J.
         charged with the duty of attending to the literary and scientific
                                                                a
         Itcorrespondence and manuscripts.                                            awas at one time supposed

         that Mr Mathison would have examined these papers with

         view to the publication of some of them; but he left college
         for the living of Dickleburgh in Norfolk, in 1868, and died on

         October 11th, 1870. Some attempts were made to obtain an

         editor, who would arrange the materials and write biography

         of Dr Whewell, but without success. In the course of these

         attempts application was made to two distinguished members

1 of Trinity College; but want of sufficient leisure in one case,
      and failing health in the other, constituted insuperable obstacles.

             In October, 1872, was requested to undertake the work by
         Dr Whewell's nearest surviving relative, through the Bishop of
                         I
quLQi»'  Carlisle, and   accepted the honourable though difficult task.
                                     a.
         The correspondence and literary remains were to be placed at
                                   aa
         my disposal, and              short memoir of Dr Whewell's life was to
         be drawn up by         I
                                       member of his family. It was afterwards

"1QLéK§  suggested that part of the work should be devoted to the
         College and University career of Dr Whewell. Two members
         of Trinity College, to whom this was successively entrusted,

sawis
1 F751?1`13.3
                                         M)
                                                lit-Q
                                                     5

DEC

   vi . PREFACE.

   were unable to carry it on; but it has been recently arranged

   that this part shall find a place in the forthcoming memoir

   of Dr Whewell's life.               .
   I Ineed scarcely say that
                              engaged-in the work without
   Iany presumptuous hope that was competent to appreciate the

   wide extent of learning for which'Dr Whewell was so justly
   Ifamous;
             simply resolved to do the best which my ability

   and application would allow. On some of the subjects which          ,

   Iwould necessarily come before me had expended considerable
   I Itime; with others was moderately acquainted; and where was
   Ialmost entirely unprepared enjoyed the great advantage which

   accompanies a long residence at Cambridge, namely the facility

   of appeal to those who possess the requisite knowledge, and are
   most liberal in communicating it.

       It was obviously impossible for me to undertake the duty

   ,of editor without the concurrence of all who had the right and

   the privilege to feel interested in the great reputation of the

'  late Master of Trinity College; and my first care was to ascer

   tain that my engaging in it would not be unwelcome to the
   Imembers of that great foundation.
                                       received from the present

   Master, and from Fellows of the College, such kind assurance

   of interest as efi'ectually relieved me from all anxiety with re

   spect to the apparent intrusion of a stranger into a field which '

   might have been supposed closed against him. Mr Hammond,
   the surviving executor of Dr Whewell's will, entered most cor

   idially into the design; and during the whole time which has

   been occupied in the work his services have been promptly

   and skilfully given. The assistance of his successor in the

   office of Senior Bursar of Trinity College, Mr Aldis Wright, has

   always been immediately rendered to my application. Nor must

   I Ifail to record my obligations to Sir G. B. Airy for the benefit

   have obtained from correspondence and long conversations with

                   PREFACE.                        vu'

him, and for access to his large and well-arranged collection of
papers. To Mr Bushby of St John's College, a contemporary

Iof Dr Whewell, am deeply indebted; the treasures of infor

mation amassed during a long and observant career, and pre
served in a singularly tenacious memory, have always been ac

cessible to me, and have immediately solved many questions

which it would have required much time and labour, perhaps

after all spent in vain, in order to investigate.

     The materials submitted to my attention consisted of two

sets, namely those which had been left by Dr Whewell himself,

and those which were lent to me by his friends and corre
Ispondents.
             will speak first of the former set. These consti

tuted a mass formidable on account of its extent and -the

confusion into which it was thrown; and 'if the whole of it had

Icome into my hands at once, should scarcely have felt suffi

cient energy to undertake the labour of disentangling and
studying the manuscripts and letters. But the papers reached »

Ime by instalments, and at intervals, and thus never quite

lost my resolution in dealing with them. It would be difficult

to convey an idea of the hopeless disorder in which the papers
were involved; for though Dr Whewell was fond of Bacon's

remark, that truth emerges more easily from error than from

confusion, he did not conform to it in his own practice. It

is scarcely too much to say that the letters and manuscripts of
a long life of incessant literary activity were thrown into one

promiscuous heap.

It has been my main business to reduce this chaos into a
Icondition of intelligible arrangement, and
                                                   venture to hope

that this has been accomplished with as much success as the

efforts of one person were likely to secure. The manuscripts
are now carefully sorted and catalogued; so that it will be

easy henceforward for any specialist, if necessary, to consult

viii PREFACE.

all thOSe belonging to the matter in which he may be inter

ested. It had been a constant habit with Dr Whewell to

fasten together rudely by pins leaves of manuscripts relating

to the same subject; this insecure process in the course of

time had generally failed, for the pins had sadly mangled the

leaves, and had allowed many to escape: a neater and safer

mode of connexion has been substituted for this rough treat

ment. With'respect to the nature of the principal manuscripts

I may refer to pages 147, 277, 339, and 345 of the first

volume of the present work.

    A large collection of letters written to Dr Whewell exists;

but there is something capricious as to the rule of preserva--

tion. It certainly was not entirely a, case of the survival of

the fittest; for many communications remain of almost imper

ceptible interest, while on the other hand it becomes evident

on close examination that some of considerable importance have

disappeared. But on the whole the collection is remarkable

both for extent and value. The number is about 3,500; with

out naming writers who are still living, many of them are

from such men as Brewster, De Morgan, Faraday, Forbes, Hallam,

Hare, Herschel, Jones, Lubbock, Lyell, Macaulay, Malthus,

Murchison, Quetelet, Sedgwick, Sheepshanks, Stephen, Thirlwall.

These letters are now disposed in alphabetical order and cata

logued. The envelopes had not been preserved by Dr Whewell,

so that the destruction of them is not to be attributed to those

who have had the care of his papers since his decease. Dr Whewell

occasionally fastened letters into printed books with which they

were in some measure connected; his large library was Sold

at his death, except about 2,000 volumes, which by his will,

and by the gift of his sister, Trinity College was allowed to

Itselect.  is possible that among the volumes thus dispersed

some letters of importance may exist, and hereafter be printed.

                      PREFACE.                     ix

    Among Dr Whewell's own papers were two sets of letters
written by himself, namely those to Mr Jones and those to

Mr Hare. The former were returned by Mr Jones as may be
seen from page 370 of the second volume of this work; the

I Ilatter were, believe, returned by the widow of Mr Hare, but

have seen no record of the fact.

The second set of materials submitted to my attention con

sisted of letters written by Dr Whewell and lent to me by his
correspondents, or by their representatives. For these applica

tion was made in some cases by myself personally,  but in most
cases through a letter written by Mr Hammond       and printed
in various newspapers. My most sincere thanks      are due for

the kindness with which these requests for the loan of letters

were received and answered, though they must frequently have

caused much trouble by requiring the examination of old 001
Ilections of papers.
                      have returned to their owners all the

Iletters lent to me. On the whole have examined more than

1000 letters written by Dr Whewell, including those to Mr Jones
                                                                                                                                                                 _

and to Mr Hare.

When all the materials were brought into an accessible state,

it remained to discover the best mode of dealing with them;

and this was a matter of great difficulty. A life devoted to

literature and science, and unconnected with public events, can

not be made so widely interesting as to justify considerable

bulk and consequent expense in printing; thus economy of space
became necessary. Of letters written to Dr Whewell it seemed

on various grounds that only an extremely sparing use could

be made. The right to publish such letters could be obtained

only from the correspondents themselves, or their legal repre
sentatives ; and it became evident on enquiry that in some

cases these letters would appear, if published at all, in biogra

phies of the writers. Moreover such letters, however interesting,

X PREFACE.

illustrate the character and attainments of the writers them-'

selves rather than of the person to whom they may be addressed;

and Dr Whewell was to be the prominent object of the present
work. After much consideration it was finally arranged that
two volumes should be published, one containing a full account
of the literary and scientific career of Dr Whewell, with a few

extracts from his unpublished manuscripts, and the other

consisting of a selection from his own letters; and this design

has been carried out in the work now produced.

    In the first volume it has been my intention to record

every edition of every book, and also to notice, at least briefly,

every article or memoir, of which Dr Whewell was the
I Iauthor.
          trust it will not be considered that have gone
Iinto too much detail; if so, must solicit indulgence on the

ground that a. taste for the history of science not unfrequently

involves some fondness for bibliographical minuteness and ac
Icuracy.
          hope that in any future publication connected with

the subject, even if additions are necessary to supply accidental
Iomissions, there will be but few errors to correct.
                                                      have been

solicitous to guard against the obtrusion of my own opinions

and judgment, being desirous of making known Dr Whewell

himself, his pursuits and attainments, and not of , obscuring

Ithem by any interpretation of mine. Accordingly have con

fined myself to a few remarks in connexion with those subjects

which the course of my studies had brought specially under

Imy attention; and as to these have not hesitated to record

occasionally my dissent from the conclusions at which Dr Whewell

Iarrived: but have in general merely indicated this without

attempting to enforce my own opinion. The range of subjects

I Iwhich had to be included is so wide, that fear shall seem

in many cases to touch too lightly, and dismiss too hastily, what
Irequired more elaborate discussion, if
                                         had been capable of '

                     PREFACE.                        xi

supplying it. In fact the variety of studies to which Dr Whewell

turned his inexhaustible energy forms the obstacle which pre

vents the general reader from retaining his interest throughout

volumes like the present.                   order has been fol

    It will be observed that chronological

lowed, with certain slight deviations, which are however rather

Inominal than real.  have usually, when giving an account of

a work, anticipated so far as to include the subsequent editions
Iin the Chapter which discusses the first;
                                            have grouped to

gether all the publications which relate to a single well-de

fined subject, as Mechanics, the Tides, Moral Philosophy, and

IPoetry; and have collected in one Chapter notices of all the

scientific memoirs except those on the Tides. Thus if a reader

wishes to determine the exact employment of any specified

year of Dr Whewell's life, it will be necessary to consider,

besides what may be explicitly assigned to that year, re

prints of works already in circulation, scientific memoirs, and

publications included in the Chapters which are devoted to

single subjects.

Sketches of Dr Whewell's life have already appeared in

various publications, which were useful to me in the early
Istages of my engagement on the present work: these
                                                     will

now mention. An article in Illacmillan's Magazine for April,

1866, by W. G. Clark, Public Orator in the University of

Cambridge. An account in the Proceedings of the Royal So

ciety, Vol. XVI. by Sir J. Herschel. An account in the Monthly

Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, Vol. XXVII. The
article in Allibone's Dictionary of British and American Authors

is valuable, as it records the periodicals in which reviews are
Igiven of various books written by Dr Whewell:
                                                have how

ever in adverting to reviews confined myself to those with

Iwhich became acquainted by independent study, and by the

xii ' PREFACE.

aid of a large collection preserved among Dr Whewell's papers.

A correspondent, who was well acquainted with Dr Whewell,

informs me that a very good account of him appeared soon
after his death in a German periodical entitled Unsere Zeit.

Sir H. Holland in his Recollections of Past Life, and Mr De Morgan
in his Budget of Paradoxes give interesting notices of Dr Whewell.

I did not see, until after my first volume was printed, a brief

memoir drawn up by Sir D. Brewster, as President of the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, and published in the Proceedes

of that body, V0]. V1. It is pleasing to observe that the aged

philosopher speaks in gentle and respectful language over the
tomb of one with whom he had been so often in controversy.
Twelve years had elapsed since the last contest, which related
to the Plurality of Worlds, and Sir D. Brewster devotes a third
of his space to this book. He again records his protest against

it; but he allows that, notwithstanding all the paradoxes of
Dr Whewell's Essay, posterity " will forgive its author on ac

count of the noble sentiments, the lofty aspirations, and the
suggestions almost divine, which mark his closing chapter on
the future of the universe."

      Two small errors as to time run through most of the ac

Icounts which have seen of Dr Whewell's life: it is generally

stated that he was ordained soon after taking his MA. degree,

whereas some years intervened between the two dates; and
that a few months, instead of only a few days, intervened be
tween his marriage and his appointment to the Mastership of
 his College.

     In the strictly chronological part of my first volume, which

Ireaches to the end of the thirteenth Chapter, have in general

 abstained from the use of the words Professor or Doctor, except
 when they were strictly applicable; but in the remaining Chap

Iters have found it convenient to employ throughout the term

                     PREFACE.                               xiii

Dr Whewell, which is usually correct, and is the most familiar

to us at the present time. The matter is not of great import

ance, but writers of biographical works seem frequently unduly

Ilax. In a volume recently published find under the date 1827

a conversation recorded which begins thus: "Lord Brougham,

you must be aware."

   I pass to my second volume; this consists of letters written

by Dr Whewell. From the large collection entrusted to me

I have selected those which throw most light on the character

and pursuits of the writer; always however with the limitation

that the names of living persons should be rarely introduced.

IThere are, think, grave objections to the practice, common in

recent times, of publishing indiscriminately remarks written in

the confidence of familiar friendship, which were never intended

to travel beyond the person immediately addressed. The letters

which constitute my second volume belong rather to the earlier

than to the later period of Dr Whewell's life; and this would

naturally be the case from the circumstance that the more

modern correspondence contains frequent allusions to persons

still living, or recently deceased, and so cannot with propriety

be introduced. There is however another point to be noticed.

In Dr Whewell's earlier days the expense of postage prevented

all correspondence on mere trifles, and consequently letter
writing was a more serious and responsible occupation than it

is at present; moreover the opportunities of personal inter

course were rarer than they are now. Hence, to use one of

Dr Whewell's own words, correspondents strove to make their

letters postworthy, But in our time the facility of communi

                     is
                                                  it,

                                                         a
cation diminishes the importance of so that brief and hasty

` notes are found sufiicient for the purposes of society; and

thus letter writing  likely to become lost art, or to survive

only in the case of families in which some members reside in

xiv PREFACE.

India or the colonies, where the interchange of opinion and

information may still retain the gravity and importance of
older days. Dr Whewell's letters in his younger years are

remarkable for their neat and accurate execution; whole pages

occur written in the most regular manner without any erasure

or correction, and composed with an obvious regard to literary
effect. The notes of his later years, though still free from

marks of correction, are short and unstudied.

The letters are arranged chronologically, and the whole

series contains a good account of the many subjects which at
various times gained the attention of the busy writer: indeed,

they may be said to amount almost to an autobiography.
Dr Whewell often made a mistake as to the year in dating
a letter, retaining the old year after it had passed away; the

wrong date is naturally most frequent at the commencement
of a new year, but it is occasionally to be seen when the year

was some weeks or even months old. These mistakes have

been silently corrected; it is possible, though not very likely,

that some have escaped detection.           notices  of the persons to
     After the Preface will be found brief                 '

whom the letters are addressed.

The names of the persons to whom the letters are addressed
Iare placed at the top of the pages;
                                               have given to the

name the last form which it assumed, which is generally that

which is now most familiar to us, though very often it is not

chronologically exact.

Some passages have been omitted from the letters; these

in general relate to matters of no public interest. Any remarks

made by myself in the text of the second volume are included

between square brackets. A few notes have also been added.
It would have been easy to extend these greatly, but economy

of space was an important consideration. Often a reference to

PREFACE.                                                  XV

the part of the first volume which corresponds in date will
sufficiently explain the object of some brief allusion; take for
example that on page 132 to a paper of an amusing kind. The
date shews that this must be one of three, namely, those on
English Adjectives, on Clipt Words, and on the Use of Defi
nitions: see Vol. 1. pages 61, 62, 65.

      The letters contain the names of many persons: these may

be considered to form three classes.

    In the first class we may put the names of persons eminent

in literature or science, which must be familiar to all readers
of this work; for example, Arago, Brewster, Coleridge, Laplace,
Mackintosh, Malthus, Mill, Ricardo, Thirlwall, Wordsworth,

Young.

    In the second class we may put the names of persons of

University distinction or position; which, though well known

Ifat Cambridge, are less familiar to the general reader.  the

date at which a person took his BA. degree at the University

is approximately known, it is usually easy by the aid of the

Cambridge Calendar to ascertain his subsequent career. `For
example, take the names mentioned on page 34 of the candi

dates for fellowships at Trinity College. The first four names

occur in the mathematical tripos list for 1818, with notes of

information against the first three; the last name occurs in the

Ifmathematical tripos list for 1817.  the date at which the

degree of BA. was taken is not known, it may be found by

consulting the Graduati Cantabrigienses, and then as before

the Cambridge Calendar will supply information.

The third class of names consists of such as for various

reasons there may be some difficulty in identifying; the con
text will however often sufiiciently explain the reference. On
pages xxvii and xxviii will be found a list of some of these
names with brief indications respecting them. Some of the

xvi PREFACE.

allusions however are now not intelligible; nor can it be sur

prising that in a series of letters extending over the duration

of a long life names and circumstances should be mentioned

which seem at the present time quite forgotten.

   IOf the letters written to Dr Whewell have made no ex

plicit use, except to the extent of a few extracts, almost all in

my first volume. .It will be easy at any time to publish a

selection from these and from the remainder of those written

by Dr Whewell; but every year of delay will naturally augment
Ithe number available for use. In saying this
                                               must guard

myself from conveying the impression that the correspondence

cbntains what it is necessary or desirable to conceal; but still
for obvious reasons delay is advisable. For example, opinions

as to the relative claims of various candidates for an ofiice may

well remain unpublished while some of these candidates are

still among us.

IThe volumes now submitted to the public will, fear, appear

to many to be but an inadequate treatment of the subject

committed to my care, and a meagre result of the continued

labour of nearly three years. There were however many difli
Iculties in the way.
                      have already hinted at the dissipation

of energy caused by the trouble of arranging the entangled mass

of material. Moreover the limits which were prescribed to my

task have in some measure rendered it more onerous. For by

the exclusion of all that belongs to the personal and domestic

life the interest of the work is seriously impaired for the general

reader; and the omission of the College and University career

deprives it of matter which might have attracted attention at

Cambridge. My own experience convinces me that the separa

tion of a biographical work into distinct portions under difi`erent

                     PREFACE.  xvii

 editors, notwithstanding any apparent advantages, is really a

Imistake; and find my conclusion supported by some who have

 taken a share in similar engagements, and by others who, wise
 in time, declined to accept anything short of the whole responsi

bility. It is the fault of the plan of the work, though it seemed

 at the time the best which could be devised, that my subject may
appear rather as a scientific abstraction than as a living person
 invested with the circumstances which engage the sympathy of

 readers.

   I do not think that adequate justice can be rendered to

Dr Whewell's vast knowledge and power by any person who
did not know him intimately, except by the examination of
his extensive correspondence; such an examination cannot fail
to raise the opinion formed of him by the study of his pub
lished works, however high that opinion may be. The evidence
of his attainments and abilities which is furnished by the fact
that he was consulted and honoured by the acknowledged
chiefs of many distinct sciences is most ample and impressive.
United with this intellectual eminence we find an attractive

simplicity and generosity of nature, an entire absence of self
seeking and self-assertion, and a warm concern in the fortunes
of his friends, even when they might be considered in some
degree as his rivals.

I must record my gratitude for the numerous kind expres

sions of interest in my work which have reached me since
I undertook it.
                     Some who had thus encouraged me have

passed away during the last three years, as M. Guizot,
M. Quetelet, Sir C. Lyell, Professor Selwyn, and Professor

Phillips. Sir C. Wheatstone also, who told me the names of

the persons present on an occasion mentioned in Vol. 1. page 410,

no longer survives.

W. b

xviii           PREFACE.

IIn conclusion  have only to hope that the volumes will not

be quite unsatisfactory to those who sympathize with the subject

to which they relate--to Dr Whewell's relatives and personal

friends, now a rapidly decreasing number--to the members of

that great College with which for more than fifty years he was

intimately connected--and to the University which must ever

regard him as a conspicuous ornament and a liberal benefactor.

                          I. TODHUNTER.

March 6, 1876.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF THE PERSONS TO WHOM
     THE LETTERS IN THE SECOND VOLUME ARE

      ADDRESSED.

    In the following list references are occasionally given to
the Proceedings of the Royal Society, and to the Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, for accounts of the

lives of the persons named; the former work is denoted, for

brevity, by Proceedings, and the latter by Monthly Notices.
These accounts are in general drawn up with great care by
competent writers, and are the sources from which the memoirs
in ordinary biographical dictionaries are derived.

     Sir George Biddell Airy, of Trinity College, the present
                                                                                                                                                                                  _

Astronomer Royal: see Vol. 1. page 28.v

Dr D. Brown: see Vol. II. page 433.

     Baron Bunsen was born in 1791, and died in 1860;   he was;

eminent as a scholar, a theologian, and a diplomatist.  A bios
                                                             I
graphy of him has been published by his widow.

John Inglis Cochrane: see Vol. 1. page 294.

     Augustus De Morgan, of Trinity College, Was born in 1806,

took his BA. degree as`fourth wrangler in 1827, and died in

1871. He was for many years Professor of Mathematics in

University College, London. See Vol. I. page 60, and Monthly

Notices, Vol. 32.

Michael Faraday was born in 1791, and died in 1867. See

Vol. I. page 89, and Proceedings, Vol. 17. Separate biogra

phies have also been published of him.

                                                        b2

XX. LIST OF THE PERSONS TO WHOM

      James David Forbes was born in 1809, and died in 1868.
He was for many years Professor of Natural Philosophy at
Edinburgh, and afterwards Principal of St Andrew's. See Vol. I.

page 47, and Proceedings, Vol. 19. A volume has been pub

Jlished entitled Life and Letters of James David Forbes, 1873.
    Richard Gwatkin, of St ohn's College, took his BA. degree

as senior wrangler in 1814'. He held the college living of
Barrow-on-Soar from 1832 to 1854, and died in 1870.

   ' Sir William Rowan Hamilton, of Dublin, was born in 1805,
and died in 1865: see the Monthly Notices, Vol. 26. There
is reason to hope that a memoir of this remarkable man will

eventually be published by his representatives.
     William Venables Vernon Harcourt, of Christ Church, Oxford,

was born in 1789, and died in 1871. See Vol. I. page 47, and

Proceedings, Vol. 20.
     Julius Charles Har'e, of Trinity College, was born in 1795,

took his B.A. degree in 1816, and died in 1855. A memoir

of him is prefixed to the edition of the Guesses at Truth,
published in 1866; and interesting notices of him occur in the
book entitled Memorials of a Quiet Life. More than a hundred
letters written to him by Dr Whewell are preserved.

     Sir John Frederick William Herschel, of St John's College,
was born in 1792, took his degree of RA. as senior wrangler
in 1813, and died in 1871. See Proceedings, Vol. 20, and
Monthly Notices, Vol. 32.

     Sir Henry Holland, an eminent physician, was born in 1788,
and died in 1873. His Recollections of Past Life appeared in

1872.

     Richard Jones, of Caius College, was born in 1790, took
his BA. degree in 1816, and died in 1855; a short account
of him was drawn up by Dr Whewell: see Vol. I. page 227.
Mr Jones was a man of eminent practical sagacity, and had

,THE LETTERS ARE ADDRESSED.  XXI

probably more influence than any other person over Dr Whewell.
The volume on The Distribution of Wealth, published by Mr Jones,
and the Literary Remains which appeared after his death,

seem but inadequate evidence of the great speculative ability
which he must have possessed I according to the belief of

Dr Whewell and Sir John Herschel, and of keen judges still
living. But public business and the fascinations of . society ab

sorbed his time; and thus he never effected what his .friends

had anticipated, and what he might have accomplished by a

greater concentration of his powers, and by a more ascetic dis
cipline. About two hundred and seventy letters written to him
by Dr Whewell are preserved.

     Sir George Cornewall Lewis, eminent as a statesman and

scholar, was born in 1806 and died in 1863. Three short letters
written to him by Dr Whewell are printed on pages 405 and 424.

     Sir John William Lubbock, of Trinity College, was born in
1803, took his B.A. degree in 1825, and died in 1865. See
Proceedings, Vol. 15, and Monthly Notices, Vol. 26. He was
a pupil of Dr Whewell in 1823, when the latter gave up private

teaching on being appointed official tutor to the college.
     Sir Charles Lyell, the eminent geologist, of Exeter College,

Oxford, was born in 1797 and died in 1875.

    James Henry Monk, of Trinity College, took his BA. degree

as seventh Wrangler and second Medallist in 1804, and died
in 1856. He became successively Professor of Greek, Dean of

Peterborough, and Bishop of Gloucester. In reply to the con-v

gratulations of Bishop Monk on the appointment to the Master

ship of Trinity, Dr Whewell wrote, "I look back with great

pleasure to the time when you selected me as your fellow-labourer
in the tuition, and consider that as the turning-point of my life,
which decided my course to be what it has since been." See
Vol. 1. page 11.

XXl'l  LIST OF THE PERSONS TO WHOM

      George Morland was a master in the Lancaster Grammar
School during the early part of Dr Whewell's course at Cambridge.
Mr Morland afterwards took orders and became a member of
St Peter's College as a ten-year man.

     Sir Roderick Impey Murchison was born in 1792, and
died in 1871. See Proceedings, Vol. 20, and Monthly Notices,

Vol. 32. A separate memoir has been published by Professor

Geikie. Some of Dr Whewell's letters are addressed to Lady

Murchison.
     The Marquis of Northampton was born in 1790 and died in

1850. See Vol. I. page 182.

    John Phillips was born in 1800 and died in 1874. He was
in early life connected with the Museum at York, and was finally

Professor of Geology, at Oxford.
     George Peacock, of Trinity College, was born in 1791, took

his BA. degree as second Wrangler in 1813, was appointed

Dean of Ely in 1839, and died in 1858. See Proceedings, Vol. 9,
and Monthly Notices, Vol. 19; the former account is probably
by Sir John Herschel, and the latter by Mr De Morgan. ,

     Lambert Adolphe Jacques Quetelet was born in 1796 and
died in 1874. He was director of the Observatory of Brussels,
and perpetual Secretary of the Academy. See Proceedings,
Vol. 23, and Monthly Notices, Vol. 35. _ The extracts from Dr

Whewell's letters were copied under the direction of M. Quetelet,

and nearly all that he sent has been printed, though some of
it is of small importance.

     Thomas Rickman, well known as a writer on Gothic Archi

tecture, was born in 1776 and died in 1835.

     Hugh James Rose, of Trinity College, was born in 1795,
took his BA. degree as fourteenth Wrangler and Senior
Medallist in 1817, and died in 1838. He was distinguished as
a scholar, a theologian, and a preacher. He suffered much from

          THE LETTERS ARE ADDRESSED.                                   xxiii

ill health, and to this cause was mainly due his frequent change

of residence and occupation. He finally became Principal of

King's College, London. He published in 1834: a leCture entitled

An Apology for the Study of Divinity; in this he rather depre

ciates some of the human sciences. The following sentence
Ioccurs: "The most, as far as
                               know, which has ever been

said for these sciences, as they can affect the human mind, has

Ibeen said by one whom can never name without the strongest

emotions of respect and regard. Mr Whewell has declared his

conviction, in one of his minor works, that habits of inductive

reasoning are best learned from wide acquaintance with natural

philosophy." In a note which Mr Rose shortly before his death

wrote to Dr Whewell, he said, "My many months of miserable

weakness have prevented me even from thanking you for all

your valuable books--thanks richly due from me, though of

Ilittle worth to you. But cannot persuade myself (sentenced

as I am to leave home for a milder climate), to go without a

Hail and Farewell, without offering you the warmest best wishes

of an old friend for your welfare and happiness, for the increase

that may be) of your usefulness, and with of your already
(if

                                                             a

                                                                   it
great name." Mr Rose had  brother, younger than himself,

named Henry John, who was a fellow of St John's College, and

in 1837 took the college living of Houghton Conquest.                  "He died
in 1873.

     Adam Sedgwick, of Trinity College, was born in 1785, and
took his BA. degree as fifth Wrangler in 1805. In 1818 he was

appointed Professor of Geology in the University of Cambridge,

and held that oflice until his death in 1873. See Monthly Notices,

Vol. 33.

     Sir James Stephen, of Trinity Hall, took his LL.B. degree
in 1812. In 1849 he was appointed Professor of History in the

University of Cambridge, and died, in 1859.  memoir of him
                                             A

                                                                                  is

xxiv  _ LIST or PERSONS.

prefixed to the edition of his Essays on Ecclesiastical Biography
which was published in 1860.

    Henry Wilkinson of St John's College, took his BA. degree

as second Wrangler in 1814. He left college in 1820 to become
Master of Sedbergh School, and died in 1838. Mr Wilkinson
was a man of considerable attainments, and long after his death
Dr Whewell spoke of him with strong expressions of esteem and

regard.

     The following is the list of Scientific Societies with which
Dr Whewell was connected, and the date of his election. H. M.

denotes Honorary Member.

1819 Cambridge Philosophical Society.

1820 Royal Society.

1821 Royal Astronomical Society.

1827 Geological Society.                                           _

1829 Gesellschaft fur Naturwissenschaft und Heilkunde Heidel

      berg.

1831  Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. H. M.
1832  Yorkshire Philosophical Society. H. M.
1832  Naval and Military Library and Institution. H. M.
1832  Society of Antiquaries.
1835  Shropshire and North Wales Natural History Society. H. M.
1835  Bristol Institute for the Advancement of Science. H.M.
1836  Institute of British Architects. H. M.
1837  Institution of Civil Engineers. H. M.

1837  Royal Geographical Society.                    H. M.
1839
1840  Société Francaise de Statistique Universelle.
1840  Boston Society of Natural History. H. M.
      Institut d'Afrique. Vice President.

1843 Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester.  H. M.
1845 Royal Society of Edinburgh. H. M.

1849 A'cadémie Royale de Belgique. Associate.

1851 Societas Naturae Scrutatorum Helvetorum.        H. M.
1854 Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire.

1857 Kaiserlich-ktinigliche Geographische Gesellschaft, Vienna.
          H. M.

1857 Academic des Sciences Morales et Politiques. Correspon

      dent.

He was also elected an Honorary Member of the Royal Irish

Academy not later than 1837.

                                 ADDITIONS.

   I have omitted to mention in its proper place a College

paper belonging to the year 1854:. Lord Palmerston, on behalf
of the Government, requested information from the Colleges of

Cambridge, with a view to some proposed reforms. A reply

was returned from Trinity College, in the form of a letter ad
dressed to the Vice-Chancellor of the University, dated Janu
ary 10th, 1854, and signed by Dr Whewell. Copies were
printed on five quarto pages, and the letter is also published
in the Blue Book, entitled Correspondence respecting the Pro
posed Measures of Improvement in the Universities and Colleges
of Oxford and Cambridge. The letter is a statement and de
fence of the existing college practice. Perhaps the letter was
drawn up rather by the governing vbody of Trinity College
than by Dr Whewell himself; for it is known that when his
attention was first directed to Lord Palmerston's application, he
was favourable to some reform, especially with respect to sine
cure and non-resident fellowships.

    A volume, entitled Fugitive Poems connected with Natural
History and Physical Science, collected by the late Professor
Daubeny, was published in 1869. It contains two pieces by

Dr Whewell, both of which however had previously appeared
in the Sunday Thoughts and other Verses: these pieces are
the Seal and the Sea Mew, and the whole of the verses re
lating to the excavations at Bartlow. See Vol. I. page 169.

                                      xxvii

     NAMES of some of the persons mentioned in the letters 1. see Preface,
page xv. The figures give the pages of the second volume where the

names occur 3 if anything is known respecting the persons it is added.

Acland, 308.                                 1779. A famous Tutor of Trinity
Adamson, Dr, 233.                            College. A portrait of him and a

Alison, Mrs, 356. She was the wife of        monumental slab exist at the Col
      Dr Alison, brother of Sir Archibald
                                                    lege.
Alison.               .                     Kennedy, 101. Probably employed  at

Attree, 63, 75. Nephew of Mrs Jones.              the University Press.

Atwood, George, 438. Third wrangler         Lawrence, 86.
                                            Lonsdale, 184. Curator of the Museum
and First Smith's Prizeman in 1769.

Author of a celebrated work on Me                   of the Geological Society.
                                            Lunn, Francis, 83. See Vol. 1. page 35.
chanics.
                                            Lyall, 352.
Badnall, 195, 200.                          Mackreth, T., 14. A clergyman in Lan

Bankes, 54. Probably W. J. Bankes who              cashire, a friend and correspondent
     was elected MP. for the University            of Dr Whewell.

       in 1822.                             Magrath, 219.
Blackstone, 44.
Blake, 281. See page xxxv of Jones's        Marchesa, 160, 198. See Spineto.

       Literary Remains.                    Morton, Pierce, 59; known as a mathe
Bonomi, 89.                                       matician, sixth wrangler in 1825.
Brown, 143. Robert Brown the botanist.
Campbell, Lady, 159. Daughter of Sir        Murphy, Robert, 229. An eminent ma.
                                                  thematician, third wrangler in 1829.
     J. Malcolm.
                                            Pentland, 166, 189, 412.
Clary, 217.
Collier, William, 438. Sixth wrangler       Postlethwaite, Thomas, 438. Third
                                                  wrangler in 1753 ; Master of Trinity
      in 1762, afterwards Begins Professor        College in 1789.

       of Hebrew at Cambridge.              Ritchie, William, 86. Formerly Pro
Fitton, William Henry, 143. An eminent            fessor of Natural Philosophy in

geologist.         .                             ' University College, London; inven

Higgin, William, 10. He studied at                 tor of a photometer.

Lancaster Grammar School and                Bose, Stewart, 203. Probably the trans
                                                  lator of Ariosto; see also the Intro
Trinity College; BA. in 1817, and                 duction to the first Canto of Mar

       finally Bishop of Derry.                    mion.

Hudson, John, 14. BA. in 1797; Tutor        Rutherford, 313. Formerly Lord Advo

of Trinity College and afterwards

Vicar of Kendal. There is a tra              cate.

dition that Mr Hudson observed              JSexton, 200.               ohn's
the great ability displayed by Dr
                                            Sharpe, Edmund, 192. Of St
                                             College; BA. in 1833 ; an eminent
Whewell when a youth, and advised

      him to proceed to Cambridge.                 architect.
Jerrard, G. B., 229. An eminent mathe
                                            Slegg, Michael, 8, 9, 23. An able man,
      matician, member of the University          contemporary with Dr Whewell at
                                                  College; want of health prevented
      of Dublin.                                  him from distinguishing himself.
Jones, Thomas, 438. Senior wrangler in

xxviii  NAMES MENTIONED IN THE LETTERS.

Spineto, 20. An Italian nobleman re-              he wrote a short memoir which is
      sident at Cambridge, eminent as a
      linguist. He married Miss Campbell,        prefixed to the edition of the trans
      who is mentioned in the letters as         lation of Ariosto published in 1858.

       the Marchesa.                       Turner, Edward, 252. 366 Vol. I. page
Stratford, W. 8., Lieutenant, 169, 230.
                                                   121.
      Superintendent of the Nautical Al-
                                           Whitcombe, Richard, 10, 23. See Vol. I.
        mama,
                                                   page 9.
Teleki, 217.
Townsend, Charles, 44, 198, 208. A         Whittaker, John William, 10...31. B.A.
                                                 in 1814, Fellow of St John's Col
       friend of W. Stewart Rose, of whom
                                                 less. and afterwards Vicar of Black
                                                 burn.

     There are in the letters allusions to some circumstances now unknown; for
example, Kenty's pamphlet on page 28, the Romeo and Juliet friend on page 44, the
war cry on page 106, and the answer by Chevallier on page 239.

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

1794...1819             CHAPTER I.            lPAG

             ..                                 13
                                               29
                              CHAPTER II.
                                               67
PUBLICATIONS RELATING TO MECHANICS

                 CHAPTER III.

1820...1830

                 CHAPTER IV.

1831...1833  ".

                                 CHAPTER V.

BRID GEWATER TREATISE

                                 CHAPTER VI.

RESEARCHES ON THE TIDES

                 CHAPTER VII.

1834...1837

xxx                  '

                               CONTENTS.

                           CHAPTER VIII.               PAGE

HISTORY OF THE INDUCTIVE SCIENCES                     100
                                                      120
                     CHAPTER IX.                      128
                                                      150
.1838...184O                                          184
                                                      211
                                 CHAPTER X.           242
                                                      283
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE INDUCTIVE SCIENCES .            302

                     CHAPTER xr.

1841...1853.      .  .g .      '.            .

                     CHAPTER XII.

PLURALITY OF WORLDS  ...                        .  .

                     CHAPTER XIII.

1854.._.1866  .      . _. p.              .     .  .

                     CHAPTER XIV.

MORAL PHILOSOPHY     .A ._  .             .     ,  9

ENGLISH HEXAMETERS   CHAPTER XV.                   .

                          .. .. . .

                               CHAPTER XVI.

SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS (.

                 CONTENTS.  xxxi

                             CHAPTER XVII.

                                                                                                                                                                   PAGE

SERMONS . . . . . . . . . . 323

NOTES ON BOOKS   CHAPTER XVIII.

                 . . . . . . . . . 345

POETICAL PIECES    CHAPTER XIX.

                 . . . . . . . . 367

                                 CHAPTER XX.
MISCELLANEOUS PROSE PIECES . .- - . . . 376

concwsron                CHAPTER XXI.

                 . . . . . . . . . 406

     The second Volume consists of letters written by Dr Whewell,
arranged in chronological order.


                       CHAPTER I.

                                               1794...1819.

IT has been said of Dr Whewell that, "a more wonderful variety

and amount of knowledge in almost every department of human
inquiry was perhaps never in the same interval of time accumu
lated by any man." Such a statement, made by a philosopher s0
eminent as Sir John Herschel, will naturally excite an interest in
the career of the subject of his commendation. That career, as

Imanifested in printed works and in correspondence, now propose
Ito trace; and trust that no imperfection in the mode of treat

ment will prevent the reader from recognising the lineaments of a

great and good man.

    A remark respecting the name may deserve some attention on

account of the person to whom it is due. The following sentence
occurs in a letter addressed to Professor Whewell on Jan. 17, 1839,
by the late James Bailey, the well-known editor of the English

edition of 'Forcellini's Latin Lexicon: "I have often thought of

communicating to you the origin of your name, which is a very

rare one, and mispronounced by all South-country men. It is a

corruption of Wheelfell, a place between the rivers North Tyne
and Read." Dr Whewell himself believed his name to be identical
with " Wyvill."

     William Whewell was born at Lancaster on May 24.1, 1794.
He was sent first to the grammar school of his native town, but
afterwards to that of Heversham in order to be qualified for hold-_

      an exhibition at Trinity College, Cambridge, connected with

          W.
221g
                                                                                                                                  1

 2 LANCASTER AND HEVERSHAM.

 it. In a speech at the opening of a new school-house at Lan
 caster in 1852, Dr Whewell referred with approbation to the'

 training which he had received in Arithmetic, Practical Geometry,
 and Mensuration; and he acknowledged in appropriate terms the
 kindness of the master, Mr Rowley. He spoke of the new interest,
 and the new dignity, which had been given in recent times to the
 schoolmaster's position, and of the improvement in the conduct of
 the scholars: it would seem however from the tone of his speech,
 and from some expressions in his correspondence, that his recollec--
 tions of the Lancaster school of his youth were not altogether
` favourable. On Sept. 28, 1854, Dr \Vhewell preached at Hever
 sham, and his sermon contains allusions to his former familiarity
  with the place.--"...I say that many such persons do constantly,
 in their thoughtful moods, turn away their minds from the scenes
 of movement and struggle, of pomp and splendour it may be, of
 excitement and expectation--turn them away to some early
 remembered spot, in which they can imagine such peace and quiet
 to reside, as they cannot conceive are to be found in the regions
 to which their subsequent career has introduced them. The mild
 sunshine and the dew of the morning seem to them still to linger
 in the places to which their memory thus turns; while all the
 way that they have since travelled is scorched by the glare of too
 bright a day, and filled with the stifling dust of crowded paths."
 "Some of us who are now here assembled can remember the aspect
 of these walls, and the sound of these services, for more than one
 generation of men; some, it may be, for more than two genera.
 tions, as generations are commonly reckoned. To the eyes of such,
 how entirely is the aspect of the congregation changed! How few

 are there of the faces, which were once so well known to us, if in

 no'other way, at least by their regular appearance in their accus
 tomed place on the stated occasions of worship! The countenances
 of those to whom we were wont to look with respect and affection
 as our teachers, our guides and directors, our friends and advisers,
 are here no longer. The silver hairs of those times no longer
 grace their well-known seat of worship: and heads which then
 wore the unchanged hue of the spring of life are now hoary with
the advance of winter. Eyes then mild with the wise kindliness

COLLEGE FRIENDS.  3

which long years had brought, are now closed for ever: and cheeks

which even in age wore the healthy hue which these rural scenes

foster, have ere this been blanched by the last paleness."

    A few of Dr Whewell's early exercise books have been pre

served, and they shew that at school he paid great attention to

classical studies, including versification in both Greek and Latin.
He entered Trinity College in October, 1812. Some notion of
his college life may be gathered from his letters, especially those
addressed to Mr Morland, a master in the Grammar School at

itLancaster; is obvious that he entered heartily into the studies

and the rational amusements of the place, manifesting the vigor

ous earnestness which belonged to all he undertook throughout
his life. He was fortunate in the society he cultivated, especially
in his intercourse with two eminent persons of somewhat maturer

age; namely, Herschel, his academic senior by three years, and

Richard Jones, who, though his contemporary in the University,

Jwas about four years older than himself. He was also intimate

with Mr Gwatkin and Mr Wilkinson, both of St ohn's College,
who were two years senior to himself. His familiar associates of

his own college seem to have been men of his own year, or junior
to himself; among the former we find Julius Charles Hare,
Thomas Paynter, and Richard Sheepshanks; and, among the

latter, Hugh James Rose. It was, probably, through the medium

of Mr C. Bromhead of his own year and college, that Mr Whewell
became acquainted with an elder brother, Sir E. Bromhead of
Caius College, who took his BA. degree in 1812. Some years later
Sir E. Bromhead introduced to Mr Whewell, and through him

to the Cambridge Philosophical Society, the famous mathematical

memoirs of George Green.
     Some of Mr Whewell's friends, however, were of a less studious

turn than those who have been mentioned, and tradition still re

tains the name of one in whose company not a little of his time

was supposed to have been wasted.

    In November, 1813, Mr Whewell delivered a Latin declamation

in the college chapel, according to a custom which lingered until
recent years; his subject was Caesar and Brutus.

    In 1814, Mr Whewell gained the Chancellor's Medal for the
                                                                     1_2

4 PRIZE POEM.

best English prize poem on the subject of Boadicea. The poem
was printed in the Classical Journal, number xix., and has been
reproduced in various collections of University Prize Poems; it
consists of 3410 lines. Sir John Herschel, himself a cultivator of
versification, speaks of this as "a spirited production, which may be
read with pleasure as something beyond a college exercise, and
evidencing that strong vein of poetical talent which showed itself
oI n many subsequent occasions."

     In the poem, speaking of some wonders which were reported to
have occurred, Mr Whewell says:

                         Yes, they have mark'd; and speak in portents dread
                         The wrath that trembles o'er th' oppressor's head.
                         Push'd from its base his idol Victory falls,
                         Unbodied furies howl along the walls,

   I quote these lines for the sake of the word unbodied. In the

well-known poem by Shelley, entitled To a Skylark, which is dated
1820, we have the line

            Like an unbodied joy whose race is just begun.

IThe word unbodied here always puzzled me, and remember

some years since seeing a paper in which a critic pointed out many

apparent inaccuracies or misprints in Shelley's poems, and con

jectured that here for unbodied we ought to read embodied, which
Iis used more than once by the poet elsewhere.
                                                             do not know

whether the occurrence of the word in Boadicea lends any support

to the received text of Shelley's line.

A candidate for a poetical prize in the University would

naturally avail himself of an opportunity to celebrate the praises
                                         '
of beauty.

            0 Beauty! heaven-born Queen! thy snowy hands
            Hold the round earth in viewless magic bands;

            From burning climes where riper graces flame
            To shores where clifis of ice resound thy name,

            From savage times ere social life began
            To fairer days of polish'd, soften'd man,
            To thee, from age to age, from pole to pole,
            All pay the unclaim'd homage of the soul.

KEEPING AN Ac'r.  5

     But snowy seems scarcely a satisfactory epithet when we con
sider the burning climes; we must at least restrict it to the candi

dior nice, and omit the frigidiorqae manst of a famous line.

    A letter dated Lowick-bridge, July 21, 18M, from Joshua

King, who was senior wrangler in 1819, to Mr Whewell, conveys

the writer's warmest thanks for the valuable and much esteemed

present of the prize p0em,--the perusal of which he does not

Idoubt will give him infinite pleasure.
         have already alluded to the instruction in the elements of
mathematics which Mr Whewell received at the Lancaster Gram
mar School; he also had the benefit of some training from Mr
John Gough, the famous blind mathematician of Kendal: see the
Biographical Notices of some Liverpool Mathematicians, by Mr T. T.
Wilkinson, in Vol. XIV. of the Transactions of the Historic Society

of Lancashire and Cheshire. A letter is preserved addressed to

Mr William Whewell, Friarage, Lancaster, dated Kendal, Sep. 26,

1814s, and signed J. Gough; it relates to the collision of hard

bodies, but is not in accordance with the theory on that subject

adopted by writers on mechanics.

    At the beginning of 1815, Mr Whewell was looking forward to

that part of his academical exercises which was called Keeping an
Act. He says in a letter to his friend Mr Morland on January 3,

1815, "I have not time to explain the whole ceremony to you at

present, but it consists in a person getting up into a box to defend

certain mathematical and moral questions, from the bad arguments

Iand worse Latin'of three men who are turned loose into an opposite

box to bait him with syllogisms. In the mean time am seized

with an inconceivable desire to read all manner of books at once,

and have at this present writing no less than two folios and six

quartos 0f difl'erent works upon my table, which would prove to

Iany one who is in the habit of reading that am very idle."

    In the early part of 1815 a fever broke out at Cambridge, and
Mr Whewell left the place for a short time, and visited London in
company with Mr Gwatkin.

     An interesting fact with respect to Mr Whewell's associates at

this time is recorded in a letter to him from T. Forster, dated
Tunbridge Wells, Dec. 24, 1841. "We have all made some ad

6 WHEWELL AND JACOB.

vances in mere physical science, but in metaphysics, as far at least

I Ias am concerned, am not conscious of having advanced one
Isingle step, since the period when you and and Herschel and

Babbage used to meet at our Sunday morning's philosophical
breakfasts in 1815." This Mr Forster seems not to have taken
any degree at the University; his name occurs as the author of
35 papers in the Royal Society's Catalogue of Scientific Papers.
He was about seven years older than Mr Whewell, who was thus

the youngest of the philosophical party.
     Mr Whewell spent the Long Vacation of 1815 in Cambridge,

preparing himself for the approaching mathematical examination;
his friend Mr Gwatkin urged upon him the necessity of vigorous
study, but it appears from Mr Whewell's reply that he by no means
neglected amusement and relaxation.

     On taking his B.A. degree in 1816, Mr' Whewell was second
wrangler; it had been anticipated that he would have been senior,
but that distinction was gained by Edward Jacob of Caius College,

then under twenty years of age. At the end of a week's examina

tion the first and second wranglers stood out clearly from all their
competitors; the next eight wranglers were provisionally brack
etted, as being nearly equal in merit, and according to the custom
then prevalent they had to undergo a further scrutiny in order to
settle their relative places. The order of the names was preserved
in the award of the Smith's prizes, Mr Jacob obtaining the first,
and Mr Whewell the second.

     Edward Jacob possessed great ability, which had been carefully
directed by his college so as to bear with concentrated force on the
mathematical competition. Mr Whewell's own taste would natu
rally lead him to the more varied study which has always been
encouraged at Trinity College; that great foundation can, without

danger, pay less exclusive regard to mere academic triumphs than
its smaller rivals. Mr Jacob went to the bar and justified the
reputation he had gained in the University; but he died at an
early age, as years are reckoned in that laborious profession, and
thus he did not reach the conspicuous eminence which had been
anticipated for him; so that his fame mainly rests on the fact that
he outstripped so formidable a competitor in the Cambridge race.

HERSCHEL AND JONES.  7

     The father of Edward Jacob was William Jacob, known for
his writings connected with Political Economy, and especially for

his work on the Production and Consumption of the Precious Metals.
Mr Jones, the friend of Mr Whewell, was intimate with the Jacob

family--attracted to them probably by his devotion to the same

studies as the father, and by his connexion with the same college
as the son--and the name of Jacob is occasionally mentioned in

the letters of the two correspondents, but the allusions are gene

rally to the father and not to the son.

     The list of graduates for the year 1816, though exhibiting a
good supply of names afterwards distinguished, has only one be
sides that of Mr Whewell which became known in science, namely
that of his friend and fellow-collegian Mr Sheepshanks.

     Mr Whewell, in accordance with a common practice, en
gaged in private tuition after taking his BA. degree, and con
tinued in this occupation for about seven years. Among his pupils
were Mr Thorp, now Archdeacon of Bristol, Mr Mansel, probably _
son of the former Master of Trinity College, Mr Dodsworth, Mr

Heneage, Mr Kenelm Digby, the late Sir J. W. Lubbock, and the

late Mr Horace Waddington, afterwards Under Secretary for the
Home Department. The tutor does not seem, however, to have
taken very kindly to his employment, since it absorbed the time
which he was eager to spend in incessant study.

     In the summer of 1816 Mr Whewell passed some weeks at
Burlington with a party of pupils. In a letter to his friend
Mr Wilkinson he records a fall from his horse, which made him

blind and deaf for five minutes, but left no permanent injury.

     In the latter part of the year we find him complaining of one

of the inevitable vexations of prolonged residence in college--the
departure of friends from Cambridge. He says in a letter to
Mr Morland, dated Nov. 10, 1816, with reference to Mr Herschel

Iand Mr Jones : "Two of my most intimate acquaintances, and will

add two men of the greatest intellectual powers and attainments

Ithat ever saw or ever expect to see, have left the university;

and their departure has made an irrecoverable gap in my

enjoyments."

     In March, 1817, [Mr Whewell says in a letter to Mr Herschel

 8 SCENE AT THE UNION.

that he has six pupils, and that he is or ought to be reading for a
fellowship. Towards the end of the month he was a prominent
actor in a scene which he himself describes in a letter to his friend
Mr Rose, and which is still well remembered by one who was
present. The Union is the name given to a society at Cambridge,
composed principally of the younger residents in the University,
which furnishes the advantages of a library and reading rooms,

and encourages debates on set subjects among its members. It

now possesses an ample and well-arranged building, but in those
early days of its history it was in a less flourishing condition, and
hired a room at the Red Lion Inn. Mr Whewell was President in
the month of March 1817, when Dr Wood, at that time Vice
Chancellor, took with him the Proctors, Mr Okes of Caius College,
and Mr French then of Pembroke College and afterwards Master
of Jesus College, together with a tutor from Trinity and from St
John's, and proceeded to the place of meeting. The Proctors were
sent into the room to desire the members to disperse, and to meet
no more. The President, mindful of the dignity of his position,
requested the messengers. to withdraw that the Society might con
sult on the matter. This could not be granted, but a deputation,
consisting of the President, Mr Thirlwall, and Mr Sheridan, was
permitted to have an interview with the Vice-Chancellor. The
deputation was urgent, but the Vice-Chancellor was obdurate ; and
all that was conceded was permission to finish the current debate,
and to retain the room merely for the purpose of reading.

     Succeeding Vice-Chancellors, hovirever, did not exhibit much
interest in the matter, and so the debates were after no long in
terruption renewed, but in order to evade the formal prohibition
some obvious artifices were employed; a member for instance
would move that a certain newspaper should be discontinued,
and then criticise at length the political principles which that

newspaper advocated.

    It is natural to conjecture that Mr Whewell hesitated for

some time as to the choice of his future profession; he does not
seem to have been fond of lecturing or of private tuition, and he
did not take orders until about 1825. On this subject we may
give an extract of a letter to him; the writer was Richard Whit

ADVICE As TO A PROFESSION.                                                        9

combe, who by the evidence of his letters, and by the testimony
of those who still remember him, was a man of considerable

ability; he was an intimate friend of Mr Hugh James Rose, went

to the bar, and probably died early. He
a                                                               presume, the author
                                                            I.

                                      iIs,
of short article published in Vol. of the division of History

and Biography in the Encyclopoedia Metropolitana, entitled ille--

nander, illiddle and New Comedy. Mr Whitcombe says in a

letter dated April 29, 1817: "But how stands the case with you?

What your beau ideal of life? To attain to eminence in, and
is

                    I
efficiently serviceable to your country--or to gain a name, in an

age better able to appreciate merit than this, by pushing on the

land-marks of knowledge?                     think you know me too well to

accuse me of flattery--and therefore will say that your object
Ifought to be of one of these kinds.         is of I

                                                             is
                                                              in

                                                            iIf

                                                               I
                                                                      I
                                             you are outrageously modest,

remember that your model must be perfection. Seriously, you

cannot but feel that you have talents to succeed to any extent

you wish--flattery from me to you            out of the question--it

would be absurd, but would also be what far worse. Your
a

         is

           `I

               it is I it

                                          a
talking, then, of not having prospects of success the law, over

rule at once. ensure your succeeding there--but,                   must give

you decided opinion, do not wish to see you enter on it.

think that your mind calculated to do more, and to receive more

enjoyment in the active and unfettered pursuit of knowledge of its

own selection than would in the shackles of any profession.

The knowledge of law, as science, studied philosophically, have
                                             iIt
no doubt delightful--even the detail of                 if, I
                                                                should like--and

yet--Special Pleading l--but will your thirst of knowledge be

slaked from this one stream how pure so ever? and                  in the

midst of your professional labours, you ever cease to sigh for more

frequent and extended opportunities of pursuing genuine Science,

will not be when you have torpified the vigour of Mind which
it                                                              a
    if

     I

                              if
was not endowed with strong powers for inactivity or prostitution.

Do not dread the necessity of an eternity of Cambridge. Live in

London you like--your fellowship will support you for the present,
without drudging your intellects at £i0 per annum for stupid

pupils, and shall be vexed you do any such thing after October.

And, when you see how very little talent has raised very many

10 FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE.

men do not doubt that you may raise yourself by your mind, with
Iout sticking a wig on your head. Literature, honestly think, is
Ifyour natural bent.
                      so, ruat coelum, follow it! But you must

judge for yourself."
     We see the impression which Mr \Vhewell's ability had already

made on a clever friend, and we may infer that the friend had

been consulted as to the choice of a profession: moreover the ad

vice given was substantially, if not literally, followed. A passage

in a sermon which Dr Whewell preached in his college chapel on

Oct. 23, 1864, seems to recall the dread of a continued residence

at Cambridge which he had himself felt nearly half a century be
fore. "Butsome of you may continue to be resident members of
this community for many years, or it may be for the whole of

your lives. Such a lot may, at the present moment, appear to
you dreary and desolate. Yet it need not be so. Such a lot is

not at all inconsistent with the constant culture of all kindly

affections, with an enduring enjoyment of literary pleasures, and

with a truly Christian spirit, enduring all things and waiting

calmly for the end in faith and hope."

    In the year 1817 Mr Rose proposed to translate from the

French the work of Lacroix on the Application of Algebra to
Geometry, and Mr Whewell half promised to assist him, and to

furnish some notes; but the scheme was never carried out, for

Mr Whewell was not very earnest, and Mr Rose himself seems to

have been much more devoted to literature and theology than to

mathematics. ,

    Mr Whewell spent the Long Vacation of 1817 in Cambridge,

preparing for the ensuing Fellowship Examination at his college.

A long letter addressed to his friend Mr Rose in September

discourages the latter from proceeding with an ambitious scheme

he had formed of starting a Cambridge Review: Mr Whewell

points out with great judgment the difficulties which would beset
such a young staff of writers as it was proposed to employ.

     Mr Whewell was elected Fellow of Trinity College in October,

1817; five others obtained Fellowships at the same time; namely,

J.G. Waddington, Wigram, and Moody, who were a year senior,

and Sheepshanks and E. B. Elliott, who were of the same year.

                WRITING ON STATICS.           11

     Mr Whewell seems to have been disappointed that a Fellowship
was not awarded to Mr Higman who was just below himself in

the Mathematical Tripos of 1816; he says in a letter that he is

"very angry with the seniors for condemning Higman to another

year of academic trifling."    I

Immediately after his election to a Fellowship, Mr Whewell

set out on a visit to Mr Jones, but he failed to see his friend in

consequence of a succession of errors as to time and place.

    In March, 1818, we find Mr Whewell engaged with private

pupils during the evenings--perhaps an indication that he had

increased his number of them.

In a letter to Mr Herschel, dated June 19, 1818, Mr Whewell

expressed that high opinion of the merits of Simon Stevinus with

respect to the early history of Mechanics, which he zealously

maintained in his later writings: see the History of the Inductive
Sciences, Book VI. Chapter 1. This letter also alludes to the
"Iwork on which the writer was then engaged:
                                              have nearly

finished my Statics, and feel tempted to publish it by itself;
Ifor Dynamics, to treat it as am going on, working out all kinds
Iof problems, will take up much time.
                                       shall say nothing about

the metaphysics of the subject as yet; though my conscience

pricks me on sharply to take up my testimony against the

abomination of motion, and many other abominations, with which

the faith has been polluted for two hundred years."

    In the Long Vacation of 1818, Mr Whewell took a reading
party into Wales; he had intended to settle at Barmouth, but

finding that place unsuitable he proceeded to Caernarvon. One

of the pupils could not be persuaded to read steadily, and
Mr Whewell declined to accept the usual fee; the long corre

spondence between them during subsequent years shews how

completely the tutor gained the affection of his somewhat unsatis

factory pupil.                         .

While in Wales, Mr Whewell accepted the post of Lecturer

on Mathematics in Trinity College, which was offered to him by

Mr Monk, then tutor, and afterwards Bishop of Gloucester.

    In the year 1819, Mr Whewell took his MA. degree; he

says in a letter to his friend Mr Morland, dated March 23, 1819:

12 A PACKET SUNK.

I"Next week  and my contemporaries take the first step to

becoming Masters of Arts, which is attended with divers advan

tages, among which free admission to the public library is one

which does not least excite my cupidity."

    In the autumn, Mr Whewell was proceeding to France in
company with Mr Sheepshanks, but the packet " Nancy " in which

they sailed came into collision with another vessel and was sunk.

The two friends lost everything they had with them; but they

were fortunately landed next morning at Brighton, where

Mr Jones was staying, and he helped to refit them.

In this year the Cambridge Philosophical Society was founded;

and Mr Whewell was one of the original members.

In November, 1819, Mr Whewell began his long course of

authorship by the publication of a volume on illechanics; and

we shall find it convenient to trace the history of his writings on

the subject. The next Chapter however must necessarily be of

little interest except to those who make a special study of that

part of Mixed Mathematics.

              CHAPTER II.

PUBLICATIONS RELATING TO MECHANICS.

I

  IN the year 1819, Mr Whewell first appeared as an author by
 the publication of his work entitled An Elementary Treatise on

Mechanics; this forms an octavo volume; the Title, Preface,

and Contents occupying xxii pages, and the text 346 pages,
besides two pages of Errata.

The treatise may be considered as one which, in conjunction

with the publications of Peacock and Herschel, introduced the

continental mathematics, in order to replace the system of

fluxions which had so long prevailed at Cambridge. A copious

account both of the elementary and the higher parts of Statics

is given, and the Differential and Integral Calculus are very

freely used. In Dynamics only the elementary parts are treated.

    In the notice of Dr Whewell published by the Royal Astro

nomical Society, the following opinion is pronounced on the
"Ittreatise:
              was a work of great value, strikingly logical and
accurate. It is considered by one of our most eminent living

mathematicians to have been very far in advance of any then

existing text-book in the clearness and correctness of the treat
ment 'of bodies in contact, and in the precision with which the
assumptions involved in the laws of motion and the composition
of forces are stated and illustrated." Sir John Herschel quotes

nearly the whole of this opinion of the work, which he assigns
to " one excellently qualified to judge of its merits."

     The treatise on Mechanics passed through many editions,
but changed its character considerably in its course; it will be

  14 MECHANICS. SECOND EDITION.

  convenient to trace its history, and also that of the kindred publi

 Ications, so as to collect in one place all that have to say on

  the subject. The octavo form of the elementary treatise on
  Mechanics was preserved throughout.

      In 1821 appeared a Syllabus of an Elementary Treatise of
 Mechanics. With Corrections and Additions; this occupies fifty

  octavo pages, besides a leaf which contains the title and pre
 liminary notice: there is one plate. The Syllabus consists of
  the enunciations of those propositions in the Elementary Treatise
  which are most simple and important; there are references to
 that treatise for the demonstrations, but in some cases additions

  or alterations are given.
       The second edition of the Elementary Treatise on Mechanics

 appeared in 1824 ; the title-page says " with numerous improve
 vments and additions." The Title, Preface, and Contents now
 occupy xxviii pages, and the text 342 pages, besides a page of
  Errata. The Preface begins thus: " The present Volume is
  offered as a republication of one which has already appeared;
 but the changes which it has undergone in substance and arrange
 ment are such, that it may be doubtful whether it should be

 considered as a new edition or a new work." The second edition

 differs widely from the first, especially in the Statics, so that, as
 the author suggests, it may be regarded as a new work. On
 the title-page of the first edition these words appeared: "Vol. I.
 containing Statics and part of Dynamics."v They are not repro
 duced on the title-page to the second edition; and at the close
 of the Preface it is stated that it has been thought advisable
A to publish the Treatise on Dynamics as a separate work. - Accord

 Iingly this appeared in 1823, and shall speak of it hereafter.

      Mr Jones when he heard of this plan wrote, " Your first literary
 Babe will think you a most unnatural Papa for not letting your
 youngest darling call it Brother."

    IA troublesome characteristic of Dr Whewell's writings appears

 in the Preface, namely the phrase, "as have stated elsewhere,"

 Iwithout any indication of the place intended by "elsewhere:"

 in this case it is presume the Preface to the Dynamics of 1823.
 And on page 288 we have an example of a habit to which he was

MECHANICS. FOURTH EDITION.                                                   15

always prone, which seems to me a grave fault in scientific works,

namely, an unnecessary change of language where there should

be no change in the sense. A section is headed, "Planes of

Quickest and Slowest Descent," and almost immediately after

wards we have, "It is required to find the plane of shortest

descent." Here instead of shortest we ought to have had quickest,

both as more suitable and as having been already employed.

The third edition of the Elementary Treatise on Mechanics

appeared in 1828; the title-page says "with improvements and

additions." The Title, Preface, and Contents occupy xxiv pages,

and the text 369 pages, besides a page of Errata. This edition

is substantially the same as the second with the addition of two

chapters, one on Friction, and the other on the Connexion of
Pressure and Impact. This may be considered as the best edition

of the work in one volume; as we shall see it was subsequently
Iseparated into parts. In a bookseller's catalogue have found a
ISupplement
to the third        edition recorded; but                                    have not seen
                                                                          `

such a Supplement.

     The fourth edition of the Elementary Treatise on Mechanics
appeared in 1833; the title-page says " with improvements and

additions." The Title, Preface, and Contents now occupy xviii

pages, and the text 280 pages. The principal part of the preface

to the third edition is embodied in the preface to the fourth.

The portions of the work which assumed the student to possess

a knowledge of Analytical Geometry and the Differential Calculus,

except the last chapter, were now withdrawn, and issued in a

separate volume under the title: Analytical Statics. A Supplement

to the fourth edition of an Elementary Treatise on Mechanics, 1833.

This is an octavo volume; the Title, Preface and Contents occupy

viii pages, and the text 152 pages. The investigations concern

ing the Forms of Bridges on various hypotheses, and the discus

sion of the Species of the Elastic Curve, which constituted part

of the former editions of the Mechanics, were now omitted. On

the other hand additions are made respecting Suspension Bridges

and' the Strength of Materials. We may also notice a. demon

stration of the proposition called the Parallelogram of Forces,
which is substantially the same as Poisson published in 1833 in

1 6 MECHANICS. FIFTH EDITION.

the second edition of his] Traite' ole Me'canique: Mr Whewell

had independently invented this demonstration, as we learn from
a letter of his to Professor J. D. Forbes. "There is a proof of
Ithe composition of forces which am obliged to assure yOu was
Imy own invention.
                    excogitated it during a ride; wrote it out

and sent it to the press;--and then, and not sooner, began to

read Poisson's new edition, and found it given there with the

same steps almost without a variation."

     Pages 229...269 of the fourth edition of the Elementary

Treatise on Mechanics are new: these treat on the Friction of
Bodies in Motion, and on the Principle of Work.

     There is an octavo sheet called Additions in the fourth edition

Iof an Elementary Treatise on illechanics, 1833. It relates to

Friction and to Work, and was, suppose, intended for the con

venience of purchasers of the earlier editions; it seems to end

abruptly.

     The fifth edition of the Elementary Treatise on Mechanics
appeared in 1836; the title-page says " with considerable im
provements and additions." The Title, Preface, and Contents

occupy xvi pages, and the text 326 pages. The preface is rather

polemical, referring to the famous attack on Mathematics which
had been made by Sir W. Hamilton, in No. 126 and No. 127
of the Edinburgh Review, and to Mr Whewell's Thoughts on

the Study of Mathematics.
     The fifth edition, like the fourth, presents itself as strictly

.an elementary work, by being confined to those parts of the
' subject which do not require the higher mathematics; this is the

most comprehensive edition of the treatise in this restricted form,

as it was much reduced in bulk in the next edition.

   IWe read in the Preface " have added several Articles...upon

the Theory of Arches. The theory of the equilibrated arch, which

I Ihad introduced in the earliest editions of the work, rejected in I

the subsequent editions, since, in the way in which it was then

Itreated, it was quite inapplicable in practice." The statement is

rather vague; but think the fact is that the matter about

arches appeared in the first three editions, and was rejected in

the fourth.

        MECHANICS or ENGINEERING.                 17

"IAgain, we read in the Preface,          have also introduced into

the present volume several of the simpler propositions which

respect the doctrine of the rotatory motion of a rigid body, trans
ferring them from my Treatise on Dynamics." Accordingly, pages

237...271 relate to this and kindred subjects.

      The sixth edition was published in 1841 ; the title-page says
" with extensive corrections and additions." The Title, Contents,
and Preface occupy viii pages, and the text 124 pages. Thus
although the title-page speaks of additions, it is obvious that these

are more than counterbalanced by extensive omissions. The Preface
begins thus: " This Edition of the Elementary Treatise of Mecha

nics has been entirely rewritten, and the plan of the former

editions has been so much modified, that this might perhaps
more properly be considered as a new work."

     The portions which occupied pages 237...315 of the fifth
edition are now withdrawn. The account of the illechanical

Powers is also omitted; but it was published again in 1846
as a Supplement to the sixth edition: this Supplement consists

of 29 octavo pages with two plates. Moreover, in the sixth

edition, speaking generally, examples-are not introduced to illus

trate general propositions and general formula. - The Preface says,

 "Such  examples,  proposed  and  solved  by the  living instructor, or

'
under his eye, are of far more service to the learner, than those

which he finds ready solved in the pages of his book." This

indicates a considerable change in opinion, for in the original

form of the work the number of problems solved was very great;
and we know from the correspondence of the author that he

purposely adopted this plan.
     Towards the conclusion of the Preface Mr Whewell refers to a

work on Engineering, which he was about to publish as a sequel

to the'present Elementary Treatise on Mechanics. Accordingly,

this appeared in 1841, under the title of Mechanics of Engineer
ing ,- the Title, Dedication, Preface, and Contents occupy xii
pages, and the text 216 pages; it is dedicated to Professor Willis,
whose Treatise on Mechanism was just about to appear. The

Mechanics of Engineering is not an independent work, as the title

might perhaps suggest; the student is supposed to have already

w. 2

18 CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROFESSOR MosELY.

acquired the principles of Mechanics from some treatise on the

subject, and here the principles "are traced to their cxemplifica

tion in the practical business of the Engineer." The subject of

oblique arches may be noticed as a new investigation in the
theory; to this Mr Whewell attached great importance, as we

see from his Preface, and from the History of the Inductive Sciences,
3rd edition, Vol. II, page 447.

The subject of Work or Labouring Force, which had been

introduced into the fifth edition of the Mechanics, occupies
much space in the volume. Mr Whewell acknowledges in his

Preface his obligations to Navier, Poncelet and others, but says,

-"I have attempted, however, to present this matter in a more

systematic shape than my predecessors."

     The publication of the .Mechanics of Engineering led to some
cerrespondence between Mr Whewell and Professor Mosely. The

latter claimed as his own a certain principle of the limiting angle

of resistance which he found used in Arts. 106...108 and 111...113

of the work; and also the two conditions in which the general

theory of the arch is summed up in Art. 113: he added that he          Y
Ihad subsequently corrected-this theory of the arch.
                                                      have not

seen Mr Whewell's replies, but he seems to have said that he

had not read the writings of Professor Mosely, and that the

matters in question were implicitly common to many authors.

Professor Mosely's last letter concludes with acknowledging the

very candid and frank manner in which Mr Whewell's part of

the controversy had been carried on.

     The seventh edition of the Elementary Treatise on Mechanics
was published in 1847; the title-page says " with extensive cor

rections and additions." The Title, Preface, and Contents occupy

viii pages, and the text 191 pages. We read in the Preface, "In

the Sixth Edition, the innovations were, perhaps, inconveniently

large, including omissions of portions of the previous editions.

IIn the present edition, have restored some of these omitted

portions, especially the Mechanical Powers..." Mr Whewell

refers to the Mechanics of Engineering as intended to be a Sup
plement to the Elementary Treatise on blechanics, and says, "The

Elementary Treatise and the Mechanics of Engineering taken toge

                 TREATISE ON MECHANICS.              19

ther, made up a much more complete Treatise than any of the
former editions of my work." He should have mentioned also

the Analytical Statics, so that the three works taken together
might be considered to represent the original publication of 1819.

   IThe Elementary Treatise on Mechanics appears to have been

translated into German; have seen in a bookseller's catalogue
a record of the first edition of the translation in 1841 and of the

second in 1849.

The Elementary Treatise on Mechanics, as it thus passed

through seven editions, must have exercised a powerful influence
Ion Mathematical education for a long period.
                                               cannot speak of

the work from the experience either of a student or a teacher;

Ifor it had practically disappeared from general use before

entered the University, though it lingered officially in Trinity

College until a later date. But it is easy to see the characteristic

Imerits and defects of the work. Among the former should place

prominently the distinction between Statics and Dynamics, to

which attention was forcibly drawn in the Preface, and which

was well maintained in the work; as the two subjects differ in

origin and in the nature of the principles on which they rest,

Mr Whewell acted judiciously in keeping them separate. It is

I conceive a matter of regret that some modern writers shew

a desire to obliterate the distinction, and to treat Statics as a

particular case of Dynamics; this course seems to me to impair

the educational value of the study of Mechanics, without any
compensating advantage to science. Another merit in Mr

Whewell's treatise is the soundness of principle which pervades

it; the student may safely trust himself to a guide who has

such a wide and accurate knowledge of the subject he professes
to teach: it must be allowed, however, that the inaccuracies of

the printer were numerous and troublesome.

On the other hand the Treatise cannot be considered attractive

in form. The matter does not seem well arranged; problems are

thrown in promiscuously, and the methods of solution too often

take a cumbrous geometrical form, quite devoid of elegance. In

the earlier editions the explanatory matter is far too diffuse, and is
wisely retrenched in the later editions.

                                               2--2

20- TECHNICAL LANGUAGE OF MECHANICS.

     But the great objection to the work is the perpetual alteration
which deprived it of all stability and permanence. No sooner had
teachers become familiar with one edition than another would

appear in which the subject had been rather revolutionized than
modified; and in each edition the preface expounded, with charac
teristic energy, the paramount merits of the last constitution

which had been framed. It is scarcely possible for an author to

retain the unwavering confidence of his readers when his own
Opinions are in constant fluctuation.

    It has always appeared to me that Mr Whewell would have
been of great benefit to students if he had undertaken a critical

revision of the technical language of Mechanics. 'This language

was formed to a great extent by the early writers, at an epoch when

 the subject was imperfectly understood, and many terms were
 used without well-defined meanings. Gradually the language has
 been improved, but it is still open to objection. For example, our
 books on Dynamics retain the awkward phrases accelerating force

 and moving force, as if there were two kinds of force, instead of two
 different ways of estimating the effect of force. Mr \Vhewell was

 well aware of the objection to the phrases, as we learn from his
 Essay in the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions Vol. v., re
printed in his Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, 2nd edition,

Vol. II. It would have been easy for him to avoid the use of the

objectionable phrases, and then from the influence of his authority
they would probably by this time have vanished from our books.

   IAs a simple example of the same kind may notice the word

pressure, which is so unnecessarily prominent in the Mechanics,v
and used without any fixed speciality of meaning. Thus, for ex
ample, in the fifth edition of the Mechanics we have in the first

seven pages the word force used simply and naturally, in various
illustrations mostly of a statical kind; then suddenly, on page 8,
we read that statical forces are called pressures: this would suggest
that dynamical forces are not so called, but when we reach the
Dynamics we find the word pressure introduced there also. Again,
in the sixth edition, after nine pages in which the word force has
been used, we read that forces exerted by means of any solid bodies
are called pressures. But the fact is that pressure has always been

-Mpfl .. _,

             TREATISE 0N DYNAMICS.            21

specially appropriated to the case of force exerted by fluid bodies.

It is not too much to say that a great improvement would be

effected in the Treatise on Mechanics `by replacing the word

Ipressure almost invariably by force.

       proceed now to speak of Mr Whewell's works on Dynamics.
In the year 1823, he published a volume entitled A Treatise on

Dynamics.    Containing a considerable collection of illechanical

Problems. This is in octavo; the Title, Preface, and Contents

occupy xvi pages, and the text 403 pages, besides apage of Errata.

This work contains a copious account of the dynamics both of

a particle and of a rigid body. Some Corrections were afterwards

issued in 7 pages, without a date; these consist of a corrected

reprint of part of Article 36, and of nearly the whole of Arts. 40 and

104:. The Articles are 148, 152 and 223 respectively of the work

of 1834 entitled On the Motion of Points constrained and resisted.
     This treatise on Dynamics may be considered as substantially

the second volume corresponding to the JlIechanics of 1819, as a

first volume; but, as we saw, the plan was changed in the preface
to the edition of the Mechanics of 1824:. The treatise on Dy

namics was not reproduced in the compass of a single volume, but
replaced by three, all in octavo, namely, the Introduction to

II: IDynamics, the Dynamics, Part I, and the Dynamics, Part

shall now notice these three works.

In 1832 appeared An Introduction to Dynamics, containing

the Laws of Motion and the first three Sections of the Principia.
The Title, Contents, and Preface, occupy xvi pages, and the text 64

pages. This Introduction formed no part of the Dynamics of 1823.

The design predominant in this work, and that to which we shall

next proceed, is to enable a student of slender mathematical

attainments to gain a respectable knowledge of the main results

obtained by Newton in Physical Astronomy.  .

The Preface to the Introduction is written with great anima

tion ; a few passages may be quoted:

"The first section of the Principia is eminently instructive with

reference to the fundamental principles of the Differential Calculus."
"And it is very desirable that the mathematical student, before he

rushes forward to differentiate and integrate upon the slightest

22 TREATISE ON DYNAMICS.

provocation, should employ some thought in understanding the
construction and trustworthiness of the instrument which he is so

familiarly to use."
     "The Differential Calculus is not necessary for a person who

would merely understand the mechanics of the skies, though that

instrument is indispensable for one who would himself examine or

extend the calculated results."

     "...the spirit of commentatorship has generally been sufficiently

ready to fasten upon the objects of the intellectual admiration of

mankind. Its flowers and weeds seem to spring up luxuriantly

about the wheels of the car of genius, the moment there is a pause
in the career."

   IWe have on page x of the Preface the words "I have explained

elsewhere;" think the reference must be to a paper published in
1828, in the Edinburgh Journal of Science, Vol. VIII.

     The second of the three works which replaced the original

Dynamics bears the following title: On the free motion of points,

I IIIand on Universal Gravitation, including the principal propositions
of Books and  of the Principia; the first part of a Treatise on

Dynamics.

This was published in 1832, and was then called the first part

of a new edition of the Dynamics, the work of 1823 being con

Isidered presume as the first edition. The issue of 1836 is called

third edition; the preface, however, is called Preface to the second
edition, and is dated April 27, 1832. Thus it appears that the

third edition was not furnished with a preface of its own; this is
an unusual circumstance in Dr Whewell's publications, for he

displayed great ability and vigour in the composition of prefaces,

and rarely_neglected the opportunity for such exercise which his

successive editions supplied.

    In the issue of 1836 the Title, Preface, and Contents, occupy

xxviii pages, and the text 238 pages. The text includes the pages

1...78 and 364...372 of the Dynamics of 1823; the additional

matter consists mainly of propositions taken from N ewton's (Prin

cipia with illustrations. The preface common to the second and

third editions is long and interesting. One sentence expresses very
happily what many writers must have felt, though they may not

ALLUSION To MRS SOMERVILLE.  23

have formally made the confession: "A few years experience has a

great tendency to diminish the confidence of producing what shall

satisfy himself and others, with which ayoung author sets out: and

he learns that the vivid impression of the fancied deficiencies and

imperfections of preceding works which at first induced him to
write, is a very insufficient warrant of his own skill and judgement."

     An elaborate compliment is paid to Mrs Somerville for her
lllechanism of the Heavens. " Our willingness to adopt a more ex
tended study of the mechanism of the heavens into our academic

system must needs increase, when these severer studies, thus shewn

to be reconcilable with all the gentler train of feminine graces and

accomplishments, can no longer, with any shew of reason, he

represented as inconsistent with a polished taste and a familiar

acquaintance with ancient and modern literature."

      The merits of Newton, and the claims of the Principia on the
attention of students, are also very strongly enforced.

      Towards the end of the Preface we read: " The present volume

appears in the character of a portion of a new edition, although
much the greater part of it is entirely new matter." The volume
may still be recommended to persons who are engaged in the
study of Newton's Principia, though it treats mainly on subjects

which now rarely appear in Examinations. It is to be regretted

Ithat in this volume, and also in that which proceed to notice,

Mr Whewell allowed himself to adopt a very objectionable nota

tion for integrals which had a temporary existence in Cambridge,
but has now fortunately vanished. As he must have known well

the evils which had been produced by the adherence of English

mathematicians to the old fluxional notation and language, we

may wonder at his giving any countenance to the attempt thus
made again to separate his countrymen from the current of

European science.
      The last of the three works which replaced the original

Dynamics bears the following title: On the motion of Points con
strained and resisted, and on the motion of 0!. Rigid Body. The
second part of a new edition of a Treatise on Dynamics. 1834.
The Title, Preface, Elementary Principles and Contents occupy
xxi pages, and the text 338 pages. This work is in the main a

24 FIRST PRINCIPLES OF MECHANICS.

reproduction of pages 79...346, 378. . .388 of the original Dynamics,
 with some difference in arrangement. The other 'changes are not
 important: pages 154...158 are enlarged from the original 203
and 204*; pages 177...183 are altered from the original 221;..226;
pages 201, 202 and 212 are new; pages 2&4 and 245 are enlarged
from the original 257; and pages 276...287 are altered from the
original 304...:311, with which they correspond as to subject.
There are certain portions of the original Dynamics which were

not reproduced in the three works which replaced it; namely,
pages 3&6...364, which are On the Motion of a Body about two
 Centres of Force; pages 372...377, which are On some particular
 Cases of the Motions of three Bodies; and pages 388...:394, which
are On the Descent of Small Bodies in Fluids. On the Ascent of

an Air--Bubble. There was also on pages 394. ..403 of the original
Dynamics a section on General llIechanical Principles which treated
of the Conservation of the Motion of the Centre of Gravity, of the
Conservation of Areas, of the Conservation of Vis Viva, and of
Least Action. But in the later works only the third and fourth of

these general principles are noticed; and they are placed, some--
what inappropriately, in the Constrained Motion of Several Points.

     Here we finish with the Dynamics, a work which seems never
to have been so much used as the Elementary Treatise on Me
chanics, and sooner passed into that obscurity which is the fate of
all academical text-books. We have next to notice a slight pub

lication issued in 1832, and then to pass to the Mechanical Euclid,
which closes this series of our author's works.

     In the year 1832 Mr Whewell published The first principles of
Mechanics, with historical and practical illustrations. This is in
octavo; the Title, Preface, and Contents. occupy xii pages, and the

text 118 pages. The design was to introduce a reader who
possessed the bare rudiments of Algebra and Geometry to the
Elements of Mechanics. The style is attractive, and the illustra
tions are interesting; but it may be doubted whether the work is
well adapted as a whole for any very definite class of students.
Mr Whewell seems not to have been quite satisfied himself; in

Ithe preface to the Mechanical Euclid, 1837, he refers to his History

of the nductiuc Sciences as giving much more completely all that

                 MECHANICAL EUCLID.                          25

`Ithe present historical illustrations contained, and adds:  shall

therefore consider these "First Principles" as now superseded,

and shall not republish the work. The Practical Illustrations

may be perhaps incorporated in some future publication in an

improved form.'

     The Mechanics of Engineering is perhaps the work which cor
responds to this future publication.

    In the year 1837 Mr Whewell published a work under the

following title : The Mechanical Euclid, containing the Elements of

filechanics and Hydrostatics demonstrated after the manner of the

Elements of Geometry; and including the Propositions fired upon by

the University of Cambridge as requisite for the degree of BA.

     This is a duodecimo volume; the Title, Contents, and Pre

face occupy viii pages and the text 182 pages. In the text we

have a brief introduction to Algebra, taken from Dr Wood's

treatise with the author's permission, a Book on Statics, a Book

on Hydrostatics, a Book on the Laws of Motion, and finally Re

marks on Mathematical Reasoning and on the Logic of Induction.

The Remarks are important; the principles here maintained were

afterwards enforced in the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences,

and the whole Essay reprinted in the Appendix at the end of the

second edition of that work.

The propositions in the Mechanical Euclid seem treated with

as much success as the nature of the undertaking allows.

Throughout the Statics the word force is retained, thus effecting

a great improvement over the author's other works where the

word pressure is frequently substituted for force. But the expe
rience of teachers is not favourable to the method of this book

for introducing their pupils to the elements of Mechanics. The

students who are really able to understand the Mechanical Euclid

would in general find it advantageous to take a wider course

of reading, involving more mathematics; while the majority of

those for whom the book was designed would probably derive

more profit from simple experimental lectures. In particular

the subject of demonstrative Hydrostatics seems to be imper
fectly appreciated by the untrained minds for whom it is pre

scribed by the University Regulations.

26 MECHANICAL EUCLID.

The second edition of theMechanicalEuclid appeared in the same

year as the first; the title-page says "the second edition corrected."
The Preface to the first edition is reprinted; and it is followed by

some brief remarks stating that only a few slight alterations ap

peared necessary on revising the work for a second edition, and

specifying these alterations.

The third edition of the Mechanical Euclid appeared in 1838;

the title-page says "the third edition corrected." The Preface

and the Remarks following it are reproduced as they stood in the

second edition; and then it is stated "In the present (Third)

Edition no alterations of importance have been introduced."

The fourth edition of the Mechanical Euclid appeared in 1843.

Some questions from the Examination Papers of the current year

are inserted, and also the Regulations of the University respecting

the Examinations. The Book on the Laws of Motion, and the

Remarks on Mathematical Reasoning, were now omitted ; but the

latter reappeared in 18415, as A supplement to the fourth edition:

the supplement consisted of 64: pages. The prefatory notice to

the supplement begins with a curious mistake; "In the Third

IEdition of the Mechanical Euclid, 0mitted...:" it should be "In

the Fourth Edition..."

     The fifth edition of the Mechanical Euclid appeared in 1849;
the title-page says "carefully adapted to the ordinary Examina
tions for the Degree of BA." The Title, Preface, and Contents

occupy xii pages, and the text 200 pages. The Preface to the

fourth edition is reproduced, followed by a Preface to the fifth
edition. The parts omittedin the fourth edition are now restored;

some questions from Examination Papers for the current year,

instead of those for the year 181%, are inserted, and also the

Regulations of the University respecting the Examinations.

Various small changes are to be found in this edition as compared

with the third; these are made for the purpose of adapting the

work more'closely to the University Regulations: but on the

whole the ultimate form is substantially coincident with that

originally published, thus presenting a striking contrast to the

author's other treatises relating to Mechanics.  _7

An important remark from the preface to the fourth edition

OPINION or MR J. s. MILL.                                             27

may be reproduced; it is as true now as it was when it first

appeared thirty years since: "...I believe every one practically

acquainted with University and College Examinations and their

effects, will agree with me that Euclid's Geometry is the most

effective and the most valuable portion of our mathematical
                                                                                                                                                                            '

education."

The Mechanical Euclid forms the text of an article in the

Edinburgh Review, No. 135, April, 1838, which was written by

the late Thomas Flower Ellis. This article is devoted to the

discussion of one point in the Remarks on Mathematical Reason--

ing. Dugald Stewart considered that Geometry was founded solely

on definitions; Mr Whewell maintained that it was founded on
axioms and definitions; the Reviewer supports the opinion of

Dugald Stewart. Mr Whewell replied to the review in his Philo

sophy of the Inductive Sciences; see the second edition of that
work, Vol. I, pages 10l...111. The question is discussed by J. S.

IMill in his Logic, Book II, Chapter v; and will extract a few of

his sentences: "The opinion of Dugald Stewart respecting the

foundations of geometry,  conceive, substantially correct; that
it

    is

                         is,I

                                            it
      built on hypotheses; that owes to this alone the peculiar
certainty supposed to distinguish it; and that in any science

whatever, by reasoning from a set of hypotheses, we may obtain a

body of conclusions as certain as those of geometry, that
                                                of I                  as
                                                                 is,
strictly in accordance with the hypotheses, and as irresistibly

compelling assent, on condition that those hypotheses are true....

The important doctrine of Dugald Stewart, which have en

deavoured to enforce, has been contested by Dr Whewell, both in

the dissertation appended to his excellent Mechanical Euclid, and

in his more recent elaborate work on the Philosophy the Induc

tive Sciences; in which last he also replies to an article in the

Edinburgh Review, (ascribed to a writer of great scientific emi
nence), in which Stewart's opinion was defended against his former

strictures..... ..But though Dr Whewell has not shaken Stewart's

doctrine as to the hypothetical character of that portion of the

first principles of geometry which are involved in the so-called

definitions, he has, conceive, greatly the advantage of Stewart
I

on another important point in the theory of geometrical reasoning;

28 WORKS ON MECHANICS.

the necessity of admitting, among those first principles, axioms as
well as definitions."

    In dismissing Dr Whewell's works on Mechanics it will be

convenient to recapitulate the forms they finally assumed:

1. Analytical Statics. 1833.           1847.

    Mechanics of Engineering. 1841.flaws-ems»
  . Elementary Treatise on Mechanics.

    Mechanical Euclid. 1849.

    Introduction to Dynamics. 1832.
   Dynamics. Part I. 1836.

 . Dynamics. Part II. 183*.

                   CHAPTER III.

                                               1820...1830.

WE resume the chronological order after the digression of the
preceding Chapter.

     In the year 1820 Mr Whewell was one of the Moderators

Jat Cambridge, his colleague being his friend Mr Wilkinson of

St ohn's College; the printed examination papers shew that the
duties of the oflice were discharged with ability and discretion.

     In the early part of this year Mr Whewell first met the present
Astronomer Royal, then an undergraduate of Trinity College, but

not on the side to which he himself belonged; this was the com
mencement of one of the most intimate of his scientific and social

friendships.

     In April, 1820, Mr Whewell was elected a fellow of the Royal
Society. An eminent philosopher, through whom his admission

fee was paid, described the society to him as in a state of unstable
equilibrium. Sir Joseph Banks, the President, was about to
resign his office, and had recommended Davies Gilbert as his suc
cessor: "But all sorts of plans, speculations, and schemes are
afloat, and all sorts of people, proper and improper, are penetrated
with the desire of wielding the sceptre of Science."

     In the autumn Mr Whewell travelled in Switzerland in com
pany with Mr Sheepshanks. The Astronomer Royal writing

"Iabout the eclipse of the Sun in 18Lt2 to Dr Whewell says, think

that you saw the eclipse of 1820 from the Gemmi."

     In 1821 Mr Whewell passed a few days at Oxford, and was

rejoiced to find that geology was cultivated there even more vigo
rously than at Cambridge. He also visited the Isle of Wight, and
then went on a tour among the English lakes, of which he had as
yet seen only one, although his home was so near them. On this

3O REPLY TO PROFESSOR PLAYFAIR.

occasion he made the acquaintance of Wordsworth, having a letter
of introduction to the poet from his brother the Master of Trinity

7 College.

       In this year Mr Whewell addressed a letter to the Editor

   of the Museum Criticum, which appeared on pages 51*...519 of

   the second volume of that publication. The letter is dated Trin.
   Coll., Oct. 25, 1821, and, although it has not any name attached,
  it is known to have been written by Mr Whewell: it criticises a

statement made by Professor Playfair respecting the University of
Cambridge. Professor Playfair asserted in his Dissertation on
the History of the Mathematical and Physical Sciences, that the
Cartesian system kept its ground in the University of Cambridge

for more than thirty years after the publication of N ewton's

discoveries in 1687; and credit is implicitly claimed for the Scotch

Universities as being at that epoch more enlightened than the
English. Mr Whewell adduces evidence which completely redeems
the University of Cambridge from any suspicion of undervaluing
the teaching of the greatest of her sons. The substance of the

letter is reproduced in the History of the Inductive Sciences: see
the third edition, Vol. II, pages 1&7 and LL53; see also Barrow and

` his Academical Times, page vi.

       In 1822 Mr Whewell seems to have had some intention of

writing on Physical Astronomy, as appears from the following pas
"Isage in a letter addressed to him by Mr Jones:
a                                                 am at No.

                it
                                   it
                                            it
                                           if

                                           if

                                                                              is
                                                                                         9,.
Downing Street, Westminster, in Herschel's lodgings; he gone

to Slough for a week--direct to me here. He desired me before

he set out to beg you to let him know distinctly you mean to

write the article Physical Astronomy for the Encyclopaedia Metro

politana--because he has undertaken to do  you do not, and

wants as long time as possible to do in." Mr Whewell must

have declined the task, as was performed by Mr Herschel.

    A severe fever broke out this year at Cambridge during the

summer, as in 1815. Five members of St John's College who

were attacked died after leaving the place. Mr Whewell and

several others remained during the whole time the disorder pre

vailed. Mr Whewell was at this time occupied with his work on

Dynamics, which he had originally proposed to call the second

              vrsrr 'ro PARIS.   31

volume of his Mechanics. He says, in a letter to Mr Jones, dated

ISept. 23, 1822 : " My book is swelling out larger than expected.
IAs do not think it will gain much by coming under the pro
Itection of the former volume, _I intend to print it as a separate

work, instead of calling it Volume II. still meditate doing some

thing about the History of the Metaphysics of Mechanics, though

as yet it is only intention. Something like Smith's History of

Astronomy, but with more historical facts. But if you can help
Ime to get rid of that word of abomination, Illetaphysical, shall
Ibe exceedingly obliged to you.
                                 hope you have not exhaled your

              it
                                it
                                                                                                  it,
wrath and brought yourself into anything like charity with
for you may depend on that no convention or management will

ever make permanently faithful to inductive Philosophy."                                               '
     Mr Whewell had already begun to take a strong interest in

Ecclesiastical Architecture, as we learn from the letters addressed

to him, by Mr Sheepshanks, from various places on the continent.

Towards the end of the year the tranquillity of the University

was disturbed by the contest for the seat in Parliament rendered

vacant by the death of Mr Smyth. The successful candidate was
Mr William Bankes, who was a strenuous advocate for Protestant

ascendancy; his opponents were Mr Scarlett and Lord Hervey, of

whom Mr Whewell supported the former.
    In the beginning of the year 1823 Mr Whewell visited Paris.

A letter from Arago regrets his absence from the Observatory

when Mr Whewell called, and pays a high compliment to Mr

Herschel, who had doubtless furnished a letter of introduction.

Mr Whewell made the acquaintance of Constant Prevost, who
had just been elected an honorary member of the Cambridge Phi

losophical Society. An amusing supply of Cambridge news was
forwarded to Paris by Mr Romilly, Fellow of Trinity College,

including the Tripos list of the year, in which Mr Airy's name

stood first.

In this year Mr Whewell became the official Tutor of one of

the sides of Trinity College, sharing the appointment for a year
with Mr Brown, and afterwards taking sole possession. In the

early part of the summer he made an architectural tour among

the abbeys and churches of Normandy. The Westminster Review

 32 PROFESSORSHIP OF MINERALOGY.

was started about this time, and Mr Whewell was asked to

join the staff. It may be safely assumed that he declined.

He seems to have taken some interest in the struggles of the
Greeks with the Turks, for a letter from Mr John Bowring to
Mr Douglas Kinnaird is preserved which gives "replies to the
queries contained in Mr Whewell's letter." More than thirty
years afterwards Sir John Bowring wrote to solicit Dr Whewell's
attention to some efforts which were being made for the scien
tific instruction of the Chinese.

      About the year 18244 some dissensions arose in the University
as to the proper mode of appointing a Professor of Mineralogy.
The Heads of Colleges wished to nominate two persons, of whom
the Members of the Senate were to take one; but the Senate
required to have an unfettered choice. Mr Whewell with Mr
Sedgwick and Mr Peacock were active in opposition to the Heads.
For an account of the matter we may refer to a pamphlet pub

lished by Mr Gunning, entitled The King v. the Vice=Chancellor of

 Cambridge, 1824.

    A notice of some of Mr Whewell's movements during the year
is supplied by an extract of a letter to him from his friend Mr

Wilkinson, dated Nov. 21,1824r. Mr Wilkinson was then the Head

Master of the school at Sedbergh, from which place he wrote:
"When Professor Sedgwick was here last month he mentioned

that you and he had projected a journey to Edinburgh this next

Christmas, to hear lectures, converse with the philosophers, and
for sundry other laudable objects. Do you not think you could

Isave a few days for me out of this tour, particularly may hope

this, as Sedgwick purposes to visit Dent before his return to
Cambridge. I-suppose your new edition of the first volume of
IlIechanics will then be out, so you will not be in such breathless

haste as when you were at the lakes with Gwatkin and Sedgwick

in the summer."

     Mr Whewell appears to have been ordained Deacon in 1825,
though it is curious that the letters which he received even in
1823, from so intimate a friend as Mr Herschel, bore the title of
Reverend on the address. In June of this year Mr Henslow, who
then held the Professorship of Mineralogy, was appointed Pro

        CANDIDATE FOR THE PROFESSORSHIP.                      33

fessor of Botany by the king; it was supposed that this would

render the Professorship of Mineralogy vacant in the October

term, and Mr Whewell resolved to seek for the ofiice. He issued

the following circular to the Members of the Senate :           '

" Sir,

I Ibeg leave to state to you that intend to offer my

self as a Candidate for the office of Professor of Mineralogy, on
the vacancy which will be occasioned by Mr Henslow's resig

Ination in consequence of his being appointed Regius Professor of

Botany. 'To shew that have paid some attention to this depart

Iment of science, may take the liberty of referring to com--
Imunications on the subject of Crystallography, which havc

made both to the Royal Society of London and to the Philosophi

Ical Society of Cambridge, some of which have been printed.

may venture to add that a principal reason which makes me wish

to devote my exertions to the subject hereafter, is the opinion,

founded on the views which my past enquiries have suggested,

that the science may be most successfully and properly pursued

by cultivating and extending the applications which have been
made of Mathematical Principles and Laws to this branch of

Natural History.                 I beg to solicit your  good  will
     Under these circumstances,
                                 this office, and am,               '
and support in the election to

        Your faithful and obedient servant,

                                 W. WHEWELL.

Trim. Conn. CAMBRIDGE,
      June 24th, 1825."

     He made a tour in Germany from July to 'October, principally

devoting himself to the study of the science. Professor Mobs was
then one of its most eminent teachers, and in order to profit by
his instructions Mr Whewell went to Frei'berg; he found him
just about to leave in order to spend his vacation at Vienna, and
at the professor's invitation followed him to that place. On
returning home Mr Whewell was detained nine days on the.

        w. 3

34 DOLCOATH MINE.

sea between Hamburgh and Harwich; and his delay in reaching

Cambridge caused some anxiety to his friends there.

Mr Whewell's application for the Professorship of Mineralogy was

warmly supported by many persons. Among others, Mr Brewster
"Iexpressed his satisfaction:
                                    am glad to hear that you are a

candidate for the Mineralogical chair in your University, and

I shall be delighted if you succeed." Other friendly letters from

the same writer, down to the year 1833, are preserved: in later

times Mr Whewell and Sir David Brewster were more than once

engaged in sharp conflict. Mr Coddington, of Trinity College,

had thought of offering himself as a candidate for the professor

ship, but only on the condition that neither Mr Peacock nor Mr

Whewell would take it; and at once abandoned his intentions on

learning the wishes of the latter.

     Mr Whewell was ordained Priest on Trinity Sunday, 1826.
In June he was engaged with Mr Airy in some laborious experi

ments at Dolcoath mine in Cornwall; he printed an account of
Ithese operations in 1828, and this
                                     shall notice under that

date. In the mean time a general election of members of Parlia

ment took place; the candidates for the University of Cambridge

were Sir J. S. Copley, Lord Palmerston, Mr W. Bankes, and Mr

Goulburn; the first two of these were successful. Protestant

ascendancy was the main principle at issue, and at this time

Sir J. S. Copley was very strenuous for it. Mr Whewell regretted

that his occupations at the mine prevented him from voting for
Lord Palmerston, whose claims he supported.

    In the latter part of the year, Mr Turton, who was the Luca

sian Professor of Mathematics, afterwards Bishop of Ely, accepted

a college living; the professorship was not tenable with this, and
in consequence became vacant. Mr Whewell thought of trying

for it if Mr Herschel would not; but he relinquished his inten

tion on finding that by the statutes the professorship could not be
held by a college tutor. Mr Airy was appointed to the office.

In December Mr \Vhewell visited Paris in company with Professor

Sedgwick.

     Mr \Vhewell contributed to the Encyclopwdia Jlletropolitana
two articles; the excct date of publication is not known, but it

ENCYCLOPEDIA METROPOLITANA.  '35

seems to have been about 1826; and so they may be noticed
here. One article refers to Electricity, and the other to Archi

medes.

     The treatise on Electricity in the Encyclopcedia filetropolitana,

which forms a portion of the second of the volumes devoted to

Mixed Sciences, is ascribed in the list of contents entirely to the
Rev. Francis Lunn: it is known however that some of it was writ

ten by Mr Whewell, namely Part II, called the Theory of Electri

city, which occupies pages 140...170 of the volume. This consists

essentially of a reproduction of the first of two memoirs published
on the subject by Poisson, in the Me'moires ole l'Institut for 1811.

Poisson's investigations constitute one of the most fascinating

specimens of mathematical physics ever produced, and well deserved
to 'be presented to English readers; but as Mr Whewell's article
was entombed in the recesses of a ponderous encyclopaedia it was
not very accessible to students, for the various treatises composing
the work could not be procured separately until about a quarter of
a century after the date at which we have now arrived. The
fact that Mr Whewell contributed this article to the Ency
clopaedia is known from what he says himself in the preface to

his work On the Free motion of Points; and also from a letter
written by Mr Lunn preserved among the papers of Dr Whewell.
In this article Mr Whewell gave the very convenient name of

Laplace's O'oefiicients to certain important mathematical expressions
with which Laplace was much occupied. See Monthly Notices of
the Royal Astronomical Society, Vol. XXVII, page 211.

     The other contribution by Mr Whewell t0 the Encyclopwdia

Metropolitana is entitled Archimedes-- Greek Mathematics: it occu

pies pages 686...694 0f .the first volume of the Division History

and Biography Of the Encyclopaedia. This contains a slight' sketch
of the progress made by the Greeks generally, and by Archimedes

especially, in pure and mixed mathematics. A few words relating

to Eratosthenes deserve notice: " Eratosthenes was a cotemporary
of the Sicilian mathematicians, and was a remarkable instance of
great acquirements in very different branches of knowledge. He
is generally called by the ancients Eratosthenes the grammarian
or philologer; and though he comes under our notice as a great

                                                                                          3--2

36 PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY.

geometer and astronomer, he was also a poet and an antiquary.

It is seldom that one person attempts to master so many subjects,

without incurring the charge and perhaps the danger of being.

superficial." Some portions of the Encyclopwdia Metropolitana
have been republished in crown octavo size. Mr Whewell's article

on Archimedes and Greek Mathematics forms part of a volume

thus issued in 1853, entitled Greek and Roman Philosophy and

Science, in which it occupies pages 305...325.

    In the year 1827 Mr Whewell was elected a Fellow of the
Geological Society. In the month of February he preached a

course of sermons before the University, which seems to have

Iattracted much attention; the manuscripts are preserved, and

will notice them in a future chapter. At the request of the

Master of his College, Dr Wordsworth, who was the Vice-Chancel

lor of the University for the year, he preached the Commencement

Sermon in July; and in November he preached the Commemora_
tion Sermon. It naturally occurred to his friends that he might

well devote himself to theology; Mr Sheepshanks considered him

to be at the top of the University preachers, and suggested the

Divinity Professorship as a proper object for his aim; but Mr

Whewell shewed no disposition to accept this advice.                I

In the year 1828 Mr Whewell was one of the Moderators for

the Mathematical Tripos; his colleague was Mr Joshua King,

afterwards President of Queens' College: the two Moderators dis
charged the duty of Examiners in the next year according to the

usual custom.

    In the early part of the year Mr Airy obtained the Plumian
Professorship, and in consequence resigned the Lucasian. Mr

Whewell tried to induce Mr Herschel to be a candidate for the

latter, and on his declining exerted himself strenuously in favour

of Mr Babbage, who received the appointment.
    In March Mr Whewell was made Professor of Mineralogy.

There had been a great dispute as to the mode of election, which

was referred to Sir John Richardson as arbitrator: according to

Mr Whewell the decision was adverse to the opinion he had held.

     The Professor of Mineralogy soon shewed that he did not intend »

to treat his oflice as a sinecure. A work was published under the

               DOLCOATH MINE.                 37

following title: An Essay on Mineralogical Classification and

Nomenclature;  with Tables of the Orders and  Species of Minerals.
                                              of Trinity College,
By W Whewell,  MA, ER.S., M. G.S., Fellow

and Professor of illineralogy in the University of Cambridge. Cam
bridge, 1828. This is in octavo. The title-page, introductory

notice, and contents occupy six pages; the Essay on Mineralogical

Classification and Nomenclature occupies pages i...xxxii; a leaf

follows with the title Tables of the orders and species of minerals ,
and then the tables occupy pages 1...71. Two modes of classifica

tion of the mineral kingdom had already been proposed in Europe.

"Mth and Breithaupt have published treatises in which physical

or external mineralogical characters determine the classes of

minerals. Berzelius, Gmelin, Beudant and Leonhard, have given

arrangements of the same substances according to their chemical

relations." Mr Whewell lays down in his Essay the principle

which he maintained in his History and Philosophy of the Inductive
Sciences, that if the classes obtained by these two modes of

arrangement agree to any extent, so far we may admit the classes

to be really natural.

    In the summer of 1828, Professors Airy and \Vhewell repeated

. their operations in the mine at Cornwall; and in the course of the

year the latter published an Account of Experiments made at
Dolcoath Illine, in Cornwall, in 1826 and 1828, for the purpose of

determining the Density of the Earth. This is an octave pamphlet

of 16 pages, printed at the University Press. On the back of the

title-page is a notice: "Ibis requested that this Account be not

published." The pamphlet was apparently printed for private
circulation; it seems to have been expected that a fuller account

would afterwards be published by Professor Airy; but this was

never done, so that the present pamphlet remains as the only

printed record of a very arduous experiment.

Speaking generally we may say that the object was to deter

mine the density of the Earth, and the essential part of the process

was to compare the time of vibration of a pendulum at the surface

of the Earth with the time of vibration of the same pendulum at a.

considerable depth below the surface. The experiment failed to

lead to a satisfactory result, because it appeared that the pendulum

38 DOLCOATH MINE.

could not be trusted; but besides this difficulty a serious accident  i
                                                                      I
occurred on each occasion. More success was obtained in 1854 by

the Astronomer Royal at Harton Colliery: see the History of the
Theories of Att'raction...Vol. I, page 470.

     An extract may be given from Professor Whewell's pamphlet:
, "The first attempt of this kind was made in the summer of
1826, by Mr Airy and Mr Whewell, Fellows of Trinity College,
Cambridge. The scene of their operations was the copper mine of
Dolcoath, near Camborne in Cornwall. Their lowest station was

a chamber in the rock at the depth of 1200 feet below the surface,

and a small but nearly perpendicularly over this was the higher

point. At each of the stations were placed a detached pendulum
and a clock with which it was to be compared by means of the

method of coincidences above referred to. The two clocks were

compared with one another by means of seven chronometers,

which were all, during each day of the experiment, compared first
with one clock, and then with another, both at the beginning and
at the end of the observation. The reason for having so many of
these intermediate instruments of comparison was, that any irre
gularity in going, or inaccuracy in comparing in one case, might
be remedied in the average of them.

     "The most obvious difficulties in this undertaking seemed to be
overcome. The clock and pendulum were lowered to the under

ground chamber without injury, fixed in their places, and set in

motion. In the course of the observation, the daily fatigue of the

observers in descending and ascending between the two stations
was not slight, as may easily be imagined when it is considered
that it was the same process as clambering by ladders down and
up a well 3% times the height of the pinnacle of St Paul's; and
this was accompanied by a stay of 6 or 8 hours at the .bottom of
the mine amid damp and dirt, and in damp and dirty clothing..."

      Two detached pendulums were used, which for the sake of
distinction were called by the names of their former possessors,

two distinguished naval officers, Captain Basil Hall and Captain
Foster. At first Hall was below and Foster above; then the pen

dulums were interchanged, and the conclusion is related thus:
     "The next step attempted was to raise the pendulum Foster to

     ACCIDENT AT THE MINE.                                          39

_ the surface, in order to ascertain that it had undergone no change
  in its rate during the preceding operations, and this attempt led to
  the final catastrophe of this first experiment. The pendulum-box

was dispatched from the lower station, packed in dry reeds, and drawn

up a shaft nearly vertical, 1200 feet deep, by the strength of men
and horses. When, however, the bucket which had contained it

reached the surface, it offered to the expectant eyes of Mr Airy

nothing but a few smoking embers. By some unexplained acci

dent, perhaps by a candle-snuff falling upon the light packing
materials, this pendulum, which had escaped the dangers of the
North West passage, and swung successfully at Port Bowen, was

burnt from the ropes which supporteditand fell very probably
                                                       it,
1000 feet perpendicular."                                        -
                                                             it
In the year 1828 the experiment at Dolcoath Mine was re

peated. Mr Airy and Mr Whewell were joined by Mr Sheep

shanks, Fellow of Trinity College, and also by two students of the
University, namely Mr W. Airy of Trinity College, and Mr Jack

son of Caius College. The pendulums were kept swinging, with

only such stoppages as were inevitable, from Monday morning,

July 21, till the Saturday afternoon following. By calculations

and observations which extended during the first fortnight of

August, appeared, as in the first experiment, that the pendulums

could not be trusted: the nature of the defect in the most trouble

some pendulum seemed to be discovered, and was resolved to

send the pendulum again to the lower station. In the mean time,

owing to the subsidence of -a vast mass of the stratum which

contained the workings of the mine, the pumps were stopped
which ran from the top of the mine to the bottom; so that the

water immediately began to rise through the lower workings.

The pendulum was sent down on the 16th of August, and brought

up on the 19th; the water had now risen above 100 feet from the
time of the accident, and had arrived within 14 feet of the lower

station: in the course of a few days the place was beneath the
surface of the water.

a    may observe that Captain Basil Hall heard in 1826 that

  I
an accident had happened to one of the pendulnms, and he wrote
  very interesting letter to Mr Whewell asking for information;

40, MR HARE's SERMON.

he was anxious to know whether the sufferer was his friend or the

other, as he still cherished a regard for the old pendulum which

was his companion in South America.

Professor Whewell made a tour in Wales in the early part of

the summer with his friend Mr Jones.

Towards the end of the year Professor Whewell was very

earnest in seeking support for a proposal to admit Bachelors of
Arts to the use of the University Library; but the proposal was

stopped in the Caput, which was a part of the Academical consti

tution of those days.

   IA publication of this date on six octavo pages may, believe,

be ascribed to Professor Whewell. Its object is to shew the de

plorable state of the University, which had neither lecture-rooms

for its Professors, nor- museums in which to place its collections.

The pamphlet is introduced by the notice: "The following State
Iment is respectfully Offered to the Members of the Senate."
                                                                                    ex

         it,
                                                            it is
                                                                       is
tract one sentence from which was probably intended to carry
much meaning: "The Lucasian Professor of Mathematics di

rected by the foundation of his Office to deliver lectures, and

understood to be the intention Of the present Professor to do so."

Many years elapsed before the wants of the University, exposed
in this pamphlet, were adequately supplied, and Dr Whewell was

always one of the most strenuous advocates of the necessary

reform.                                                                          '

Towards the end of the year ~Mr       C. Hare preached before
         J.
                                        J.

                                                                              a
the University, and as he disregarded the usual limits of time, he

exhausted the patience of the undergraduates; however, more than
200 of them petitioned him to print his sermon, and he complied

with the request. Professor Whewell speaks of the sermon to a

friend as "very much after the manner of Vguess, but fearfully

long." It may be stated on Mr Whewell's own authority, that

there are no contributions of his to the Guesses at Truth, pub

lished by C. Hare and A. Hare.
    In 1829 Sir N. C. Tindal, who represented the University in

Parliament, having succeeded Sir J. S. Copley in that honour,

was made Chief Justice, and thus an election became necessary.
Professor Whewell strongly supported his pupil and friend Mr

PERPETUAL MOTION.                              41

Cavendish, the present Duke of Devonshire, who was successful;

the defeated candidate was Mr George Bankes.
    In the summer Professor Whewell made a tour through parts

of Switzerland, Germany, and Holland. A great congress of sci

entific men was held at Heidelberg, which he attended, and where

he made the acquaintance of M. Studer of Berne and of M. Que
telet of Brussels: twenty-one years later he renewed his inter

course with the former at Berne; with the latter he maintained

an active correspondence throughout his life.

Professor Whewell suffered much from that inconvenience to

which all persons are exposed who become known as the authors

of works on science, namely, importunate applications from ill

informed enthusiasts, who announce as discoveries what has long

been familiar, or pretend to have achieved what is known to be
impossible. For a specimen we may advert to a communication

about this date on perpetual motion, as there seems some novelty

in one of the writer's remarks: "There is one consideration which

has damped my ardour in all my researches after perpetual mo

tion, and that is its encouragement of idleness, and its apparent
Ifbad effects on the lower orders of society.
                                               these should be the
Iresult of such a discovery, may the time have devoted to it be

lost for ever, and may my present projected plan be as abortive as

the former."

    At the beginning of the year 1830 we find Professor Whewell

again discouraging one of the schemes of his energetic friend

Mr Rose; on this occasion the proposal seems to have been to join

in establishing a Cambridge newspaper, which should advocate
sound principles both in Church and State. In the summer Pro

fessor Whewell geologized for about a week in the neighbourhood

of Bath, and then made an architectural tour among the churches
of Devon and Cornwall in company with Mr Rickman. During

the year Professor Whewell took an active interest in the ques
tions which disturbed the Royal Society; he supported Mr Herschel

as a candidate for the office of President against the Duke of

Sussex: the latter was elected.

     In September he was appointed one of the writers of the pro
posed Bridgewater Treatises by Mr Davies Gilbert, acting under

42 BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.

the advice of Dr Blomfield, the Bishop of London. The final ar

rangements with respect to the publication of these works were

made at a meeting in December of the majority of the selected

writers, namely Sir C. Bell, Dr Roget, Dr Buckland, Mr Kirby,
and Dr Prout, and were sent for their approval to Dr Chalmers,

Dr Kidd, and Professor Whewell, who had not been present.

   I shall now advert to the Notes on German Churches, of

which the first edition belongs to this year.

    In 1830 a work was published anonymously entitled Architec

tural Notes on German Churches, with remarks on the Origin of

Gothic Architecture. It is in octavo, and contains altogether 118

pages, besides the title-leaf. The author had proposed to add to

the title the words, "by a summer touristz" but his friends seem

to have objected to this as undignified.

     The work was enlarged and republished in 1835 under the

title: Architectural Notes on German Churches. A new edition.

To which is now added notes written during an Architectural Tour in

Picardy and Normandy. By the Rev. W. Whewell, M.A.,. Fellow and

Tutor of Trinity College, Cambridge. The original matter is repro
duced with the addition of a new Preface, and of the French tour;
there are now 261 pages including the title-leaf. With respect to
the title Mr Hare wrote, " ...my eyes have hardly wandered beyond

the title-page, and are puzzled to make out why you have chosen

to startle them with a false concord." Professor Whewell replied,

"I'was amused at your finding bad grammar in my title-page.

IYou see am quite given over to a reprobate mind in the matter
Iof concord since you left us. However, will try to defend it

when we meet."

     The work was further enlarged and republished in 1842
under the title: Architectural Notes on German Churches; with

notes written during an Architectural Tour in Picardy and Nor

mandy. By the Rev. W Whewell, B.D., Master of Trinity

College, Cambridge. The third edition, to which are added, Notes

on the Churches of the Rhine, by  de Lassaula", Architectural

Inspector to the King of Prussia. The second edition is repro

duced with the addition of a new Preface, and of the notes due to

M. F. de Lassaulx. There are now 348 pages including the title-leaf.

NOTES ON GERMAN CHURCHES.  43

     There are four plates in all the editions. Thus the work grew

into its final shape by the accretion of new matter, without other

alteration. In the third edition the pages ix, x, 17...143 consti

tute the original work of 1830; the pages 1...16, and 227...333,

consist of the additions which first appeared in 1835; and the
rest of the volume pertains to 1842.

     Professor Whewell was accompanied by Mr Rickman in his

French tour; on one occasion their antiquarian zeal led to the

temporary inconvenience of an arrest by a serjeant-major of the
national guard: see page 294 of the third edition.

      The notes of M. de Lassaulx are translated from the original,
published in Klein's Rhine Journey from Strashurg to Rotterdam.
Probably in subsequent editions of that work the notes have been

revised. There is a letter from M. de Lassaulx to Professor

Whewell containing some additions to them; this letter is dated
May 2, 1842, and apparently it did not reach England soon
enough to be of use to Professor Whewell, as his preface is dated
June 27, 1842. M. de Lassaulx seems to have been much at

tached to his eminent English friend; in one letter he sends a

plan of a house which he was building for himself, with a guest

chamber marked, which Professor Whewell was earnestly invited

to occupy.

     In the Preface to the third edition Professor Whewell says
that his book "is copiously quoted in a striking article which
has recently appeared in the Quarterly Review." ' The article is

one on the Principles of Gothic Architecture, in No. 137 of the

 Quarterly Review.

    It will be seen that in the original title these words occur:
with remarks on the origin of Gothic Architecture. It is singular

that in the following editions this part of the title disappears,
though it is really the most important part. The reader from

the later titles might be led to expect that various great German

churches are successively described; but the plan of the work is

very different: certain theoretical views of the origin and pro

gress of Gothic Architecture are expounded, and references are
given to the buildings which justify the points of the theory.
But the French tour is treated otherwise, so as to be more inter

 44 LETTER FROM M. ARAGO.

 esting to the general reader; thus on pages 239...245 of the third
 edition we have a consecutive notice of the cathedral of Amiens;
  then on pages 245...251 a consecutive notice of the cathedral of
  Beauvais; and so on.

       Professor Whewell deals with Gothic Architecture in a manner
 which is quite characteristic of his mind; he seeks for what he
 himself would have called the fundamental idea: see pages 20

 and 306 of the third edition. If a single sentence may be adopted

 as a specimen of his theory we will take one from page 313 of the

 third edition: "A leading circumstance then, in the formation of

 the Gothic style, is the introduction of vertical arrangements and
 lines of reference, in the place of the horizontal members, which

 predominate in the Grecian and Roman architecture." It would

 be interesting to know what are the corresponding circumstances
 in other styles, as the Italian or the revived Classical of page 92.

       Professor Whewell must have been much gratified by one of
 the results of his study of French churches, which was communi
 cated to him by M. Arago in a letter dated Jan. 10, 18445: "...Vous
 avez sans doute oublié un entretien que nous efimes ensemble a
 Edinburgh, touchant les monuments gothiques de la ville de Rouen.

J'y puisai 1e desir d'aller visiter St Ouen. Dans ce voyage je
m'associai a votre enthousiasme et, depuis lors, j'ai sans cesse

harcelé le gouvernement pour le décider a achever 1e monument;
mes voeux viennent d'étre accomplis; les chambres out voté une
somme considerable pour achever 1e portail de St Ouen."

     An interesting testimony to the vigour with which Professor
Whewell pursued his architectural studies exists in the form of an
interleaved copy of Rickman's work on the Styles of English
Architecture; in this he has recorded, partly by notes and partly

by drawings, many particulars respecting churches and cathedrals

which came under his own observation. It has been well said by

Sir John Herschel with respect to the many objects of Professor
Whewell's attention that his knowledge was " not merely a
general and superficial acquaintance, but one which an exact
and conscientious application, such as most men give to some
favourite branch of study, alone can give." In fact, in all he
undertook, his motto may be said to have been the word--once

PHILIP VAN ARTEVELDE.  45

rendered famous in a far less worthy application--thorough.

A curious illustration is remembered by one of his oldest

friends. In those pre-Tennysonian days every person of taste in
the University delighted in the works of Henry Taylor; and

Professor Whewell was found engaged in the perusal Of Philip
Van Artevelole, with Froissart by his side--carefully comparing the
modern drama with the ancient chronicle.

                      CHAPTER IV.

                                           1831...1833.

THE year 1831 gives a striking proof of the variety of Professor
Whewell's attainments, in reviews which he wrote of three works
in different departments of science, each by a. master in his own
 subject. Scarcely any person but himself could have ventured at
 once on an estimate of the labours of Herschel, and Jones, and
 Lyell. Before however we consider these reviews, we will advert
 to other events of the year.

      Some of the most important of Professor Whewell's scientific
'intimacies date from about this year, namely, those with

Professor Faraday, Professor J. D. Forbes, the Rev. W. Vernon

 Harcourt, and the Marquis of Northampton.
      The first letter from Professor Faraday which has been pre

served is dated Feb. 21, 1831. It refers to some article which

 had been sent to him for publication : " When a friend from Cam
 bridge (who had received it from a friend of yours) gave it to me

to put into the Journal if thought fit for that purpose, you may

Isuppose did not hesitate a moment in my opinion." The article

 was probably that On the employment of notation in Chemistry,
 which was published in the Journal of the Royal Institution of

England, 1831.` The letter has the following postscript: "Mr

 Daniell wished me to ask you where we could pay to your account
 the sum (1 think seven guineas) for the paper on Arches, &c."
 This apparently refers to an article by M. de Lassaulx, on light
 vaults over churches, communicated by Professor Whewell, which
 was published in the same volume. The payment for articles in
 serted in the official publications of a scientific society seems to be
 unfortunately discontinued in the present day.

                 BRITISH ASSOCIATION.  47

     Professor Whe well formed the acquaintance of Mr Forbes in the
month of May. The youthful Scotchman visited Cambridge with

some letters of introduction, particularly one from Mr Babbage,

and one from Sir D. Brewster, both addressed to Professor

Whewell ; and he seems to have won all hearts by his attractive

manners, his striking ability, and his enthusiastic devotion to

science. His diary records his own delight in the society of the

eminent persons he met: see his Life, pages 70...73. The ac

quaintance thus commenced with Professor Whewell soon grew

into a close intimacy, and the correspondence between the two

forms one of the most interesting portions of the papers on which

the present work is founded. It is remarkable that a compa

rative stranger like Mr Forbes gained a place in Dr Whewell's

regard at least as high as that occupied by the most cherished
friends even in the much-loved Trinity College itself; perhaps it

might be owing in some degree rather to contrast than to identity
of taste. Mr Forbes was more of an experimentalist than his

friend or most of his Cambridge contemporaries; while, as a

mathematician, he was not conspicuous, and for metaphysical

subjects he had little of that fondness which is almost indigenous

in Scotland.             between Mr Harcourt and Professor

     The correspondence

Whewell commenced in the autumn by a letter from the former,

which announced the approaching meeting at York with a view to

the formation of the British Association for the Advancement of Sci

ence, and asked for advice and assistance. Professor Whewell was

prevented from attending the meeting, because the time was that

appropriated to the election of Fellows in his College, at which he

had to assist; but he approved of the design, and became a very

active member of the new society. To him we are indebted for

the most valuable among the many results produced by the As

sociation, namely, the Reports which it has published on the

current state of various sciences: see page 36 of the first volume

of the Reports.

Professor Whewell became acquainted with the late Marquis

of Northampton through Dr Buckland, who wished to procure for

him a copy of the work on\German churches, which was then out

48 REFORM BILL.

of print. The Marquis was a member of Trinity College, and

giving great attention to Architecture, Geology, Mineralogy, and

other scientific subjects, was naturally led to cultivate the society

of Professor Whewell.

Professor \Vhewell seems, during this year, to have taken

somewhat more interest than usual in political events; and\was
perhaps concerned in drawing up a petition respecting the Reform

Bill from some members of the University. Mr W. M. Praed,

then member of Parliament for St Germains, writing to him on
"IMarch 20, says:
                       am much obliged to you for the copies of
Iyour petition, which received this morning. It seems to me

very admirably drawn up--temper-a`te, grave, and forcible--just

such a remonstranoe as ought to come, and to come with effect,

from such men at such a time." Mr Jones, in a letter of which

the date is not quite legible, but which seems to be March 27,
Isays: "Do you see yourself abused in yesterday's Times?
                                                          sup

pose we shall find at last that those who keep above or aloof

from mere party politics had better keep aloof altogether, unless
in extremis; for it is clear we shall get understood by neither

party, and abused by both. My objections to the reconstructive

Ipart of the measure are suspect more vital, and would therefore
Ibe more abused, than yours; while rejoice at getting rid of the

nomination Boroughs, and should be well abused by our friends

Iof the opposite tack for that suppose."

     Writing about this time to his friend Mr Rose, Professor

Whewell says: "It makes me glad in the worst of times to find

I Ithat am not likely to lose your regard and confidence, but

have lost my trust in my own guidance as to action, and should

I Ibe well content to sit and speculate, if times and people would
allow us.  send you a few sentences which have printed, not

Ifor general circulation, but for the benefit of persons who, like
myself, like to look at a matter on various sides.  do not con

oeive that you will agree with them, but you may perhaps bear
to see them." N 0 copy of these printed sentences has been found

among the papers of Dr Whewell.

At the general election which took place in May, Professor

Whewell supported Mr Cavendish as a candidate for the Uni

    SCIENCE OF THE ENGLISH UNIVERSITIES.                     49

versity; Mr Goulburn and Mr W. Y. Peel were elected. Lord

Palmerston was also a defeated candidate.

    In March, Professor Whewell was requested by Mrs Young to
write the life of her late husband, Dr Thomas Young, or, in case

of his own inability to undertake to suggest a suitable person;is
he seems to have advised an application to Mr Peacock, who,it,

after more than twenty years, accomplished the work.
     Towards the end of the year Professor Whewell was placed on

the Council of the Royal Society. Mr Jones regretted this, as he

thought that might lead to the loss of the goodwill of some
          it
estimable persons--referring of course to the dissensions whichof

had for some time disturbed the Society.

   now proceed to notice the various publications of the year.I

An article by Professor Whewell, entitled Cambridge Trans

actions. Science   the English Universities, appears in pages

71...90 of the British Critic, No. 17, published in January, 1831.

The object of the article to vindicate the English Univer

sities, especially that of Cambridge, from the charge of neglect

ing modern knowledge and improvements. To repel the charge,

the article, after a few preliminary remarks, reviews the contents

of the third volume of the Transactions of the Cambridge Philo

sophical Society;          maintained that this volume  " proof of
          is it                                         is
intellectual activity, of zeal for science, of perseverance and intelit
                                                          is it a
ligence in its prosecution, of familiarity with the most valuableis
                                                                   4 is
portions of recent discovery."
                                                                        it
An extract from the early part of the article may be given:

"Indeed,          seems to be allowed, by some of the complaining

voices, that the two habits--that of original discovery and that

of academic instruction--are not very compatible; and that

is rather too much to expect that a person undertaking one of

these offices to be called upon for the performance of the other,

precisely in proportion as      impossible for him to give his
                            it
                                is

                                                 ;'
thoughts and time to such a pursuit. A project,         appears,

founded on the assumption of this incompatibility, has been pro--

posed for the benefit of the country the amount of which this,

that £400 or £500 a year being conceived to be sufficient for a

lecturing professor, the surplus of the income, which supposed

w.

50 POLITICAL ECONOMY.

to be of about equal value, shall be given to a philosopher whose

time is to be employed in original research. We believe our

English professors will look with admiring envy on the happy

ignorance which could suggest such a plan as applicable to their

condition. In what distant and favoured land these golden
visions may exist as realities we know not. In the English Uni

versity with which we are best acquainted, we lament to say, the

average income of the professorships of physical science is under

£200; and we believe, that if we were to add any emolument

which imay arise from lectures, it would very slightly affect this

average. We include in this estimate the Plumian Professorship,

which has been raised to £500 per annum in consequence of

having the important and heavy labours of Observer added to the

duty of Professor of Experimental Philosophy. It will easily be

understood therefore, that several of these professorships do not

exceed £100 per annum, as is in fact the case. We can imagine

that the holders of these would be delighted with the operations

of a reformer who should level all these Offices up to the standard

above mentioned."

The reader will observe in the preceding extract two phrases

which have since become famous: original research is the motto

inscribed on the banners of our contemporary academical reform

ers; and levelling up is familiar to us in the vocabulary of party

politics.

The article includes a notice of a memoir by Professor Whewell

himself on the "Mathematical Exposition of some Doctrines of

Political Economy." We extract a part of this:

"In dealing with the moral elements of our nature, the laws
Ifof space and number bestead us but little.
                                              Professor Whewell,

as a mathematician, chooses to lay claim to all the political eco

nomy which has nothing to do with such elements, we can only

wish him joy of his acquisition: and we shall be greatly obliged

to him to invent symbols, as we have no doubt he may do, which

will condense the whole science into a single sheet of paper. We
may point out to Professor Whewell's notice, that M. Dupin, in

France, has been pursuing a somewhat similar train of speculation,

and apparently in a much bolder spirit."

                      REVIEW or LYELL's GEOLOGY.                        51

    The first volume of Lyell's Principles of Geology appeared in
1830; it was reviewed by Professor Whewell in pages 180...206
of the British Critic, No. 17, published in January, 1831.

    The review is a very lively and interesting notice of a book

which has since become very popular. Professor Whewell awards

high praise to the author, While holding opinions contrary to his

on one important point. Mr Lyell maintained "in short, the well

known Huttonian doctrine, that the strata at the surface of the

earth have been formed by the agency of causes which will con

tinue to act in the usual course of the world." In opposition to

this doctrine of uniformity Professor Whewell enforces that of

successive catastrophes, and the opinions which he here delivers he

advocated subsequently in his History and Philosophy of the
Inductive Sciences. The contrast between the two opinions will

be  s"eeHnutbtoenst,  from a   few sentences of the review:
                      for the  purpose of getting his continents
                                                                  above water,

or of manufacturing a chain of Alps or Andes, did not disdain to

call in something more than the common volcanic eruptions which

we read of in newspapers from time to time. He was content to

have a period of paroxysmal action--an extraordinary convulsion in

the bowels of the earth--an epoch of general destruction and

violence, to usher in one of restoration and life. Mr Lyell throws

away all such crutches; he walks alone in the path of his specu
latious; he requires no paroxysms, no extraordinary periods; he

is content to take burning mountains as he finds them; and with

the assistance of the stock of volcanos and earthquakes now on

hand, he undertakes to transform the earth from any one of its

geological conditions to any other. He requires time, no doubt:

he must not be hurried in his proceedings. But if we will allow

him a free stage in the wide circuit of eternity, he will ask no
                                                                                                                                                  '

other favour.. . ."

    And again,                                    ,

    " Common readers will probably not be disposed to consider

as requiring any refutation, a theory which asserts that the

elevation of the Andes from the bed of the Pacific is a phenome

non `of the same kind' as those which happen in our times. But,
to do Mr Lyell justice, it is to be taken into account, that having,

                                                                  4--2

 52 REVIEW or JONES 0N RENT.

  as he thinks, eternity for his working-time, and. v'olcanos and
  earthquakes for his tools, be naturally trusts much to the result
  of continued labour. He deems it an extravagance to raise a
  mountain 10000 feet at once, when he can gain the same object
, by raising it a yard at artime, only taking care to begin his work
  a few millions of years earlier. He treats with disdain the notion,
   ` that nature had been, at any former epoch, parsimonious of time
   and prodigal of violence.' To let off all his volcanos at once,
   would appear to him as contrary to the economy of nature, as to
   blow up his powder magazine would be to that of a good general.
  He brings out, on the c0ntrary, a well-disciplined park of subter
  raneous artillery. ` Let a series .of two hundred earthquakes strike
   the shoal, each raising the ground ten feet'--such is the word of
   command--` the result', he adds, `will be a mountain two thou

   sand feet high'."
         Professor Whewell took agreat interest in the progress of the

   work on Rent by his friend Mr Jones, and corrected the proofs for
  him. The work was published early in the year 1831 under the
   title, An Essay on the Distribution of Wealth, and on the Sources
   of Taxation. Part I. Rent. By the Rev. Richard Jones, A.M.,
   of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.

        The London Literary Gazette of February 19, 1831, contains
    a short notice which we may attribute to Professor Whewell on

    the authority of one of his own letters. The notice occupies a.
   little more than three columns: it explains the different kinds of
   rents according to the views of Mr Jones. The work was reviewed
   by Professor Whewell in pages -41...61 of the British Critic, No.

   19, which was published in July, 1831.
         An article had been intended and accepted for the Quarterly

    Review, and Professor Whewell had looked forward to the great

    pleasure he should have in introducing to the public through the
    same number of the famous literary journal, both the work of Jones
    and Herschel's Discourse on Natural Philosophy: be anticipated
    with just pride this association of himself with his two distin_
    guished friends. But the department of Political Economy in
     the Quarterly Review was claimed by another person, and Lockhart,
     the editor, expressed his regret at the breach of the engagement

METHOD or POLITICAL ECONOMISTS.                        _ 53

which had been made, at least implicitly, with Professor Whewell.

The article prepared for the Quarterly Review seems to have

remainedunpublished; while the present article was gladly ac

cepted by the editor of the British Critic.  classes,  namely, Serf
    Mr Jones divides Rents into various      Rents,    and Farmer's

Rents, illetayer Rents, Ryot Rents, Gottier

Rents: according to Mr Jones and his reviewer, political eco

nomists had hitherto overlooked all forms of Rent except the

last. Moreover they had adopted a deductive mode of treating
the subject, instead of an inductive. The review gives a clear
account of Mr Jones's views and method, and strongly recom
mends them; it may be said to- be condensed into the earlier

pages of the Prefatory Notice contributed by Dr Whewell to the

Literary Remains of Mr Jones, published in 1859.

The reviewer maintains very strongly that the method hitherto

adopted by political economists was bad; they had attempted to

construct the subject on a few arbitrary definitions and axioms,

instead of making careful inductions from the mass of actual

facts; and it was consequently not surprising that different
schools had arrived at different conclusions. He says then: " We

do not think, however, that it is difficult to point out what

influence it is which has thus sent dissension into the host of the

Greeks. The names about which they contend, and which they

wish to make to appear to be the marks of arbitrary notions

limited by definitions, are in fact too goodly spoil to be so easily
Ifresigned or transferred.
                            the fair-checked Chryseis, and Briseis

with the radiant eyes, had been mere names, and had not been

the objects of desire and interest, it is not to be supposed that the

king of men and the divine Achilles would have tom the camp
Ifasunder with their mutual ire.
                                  rent and taxes, wages and

capital, were things with regard to which we might assert our
propositions without moving men's minds more than we do when

we talk of lanes, or of the angle of a semicircle, we should no        .
doubt be left to make of them what definitions we chose._ But

'the fact is far otherwise. Both the professors of the science
intend, and the public expect of them, that the propositions which

they from their ample store put. forth on such subjects, should

54 REVIEW OF HERsCHEL's DISCOURSE.

employ the words in the sense in which they are commonly un
derstood, should refer to the interests with which those grave
realities are connected. Hence, however the political economist

may begin, as he goes on he must necessarily endeavour to bring
his language into a consistency with common apprehension and
obvious facts. And hence arises a perpetual action and reaction

between the practical feelings of mankind and the logical con

sistency of the school; and this intercourse
                    a                                                                         we regret to say,

                                                   it

                                                                    is,

                                                                   it
very much to the disadvantage of both parties; since ruins the

only scientific merit of the theorists, while introduces into the

business of the world number of dogmas and forms of language,

which, as they are applied, are arbitrary and false, and could

never, by any fair philosophical process, have acquired circulation

or influence."

Mr Herschel's Preliminary Discourse on the Study Natural
                    ;

                      it
                                                        of
Philosophy appeared in 1830 was reviewed by Professor Whewell
in pages 374...407 of the Quarterly Review, Number 90, published

in July, 1831. Mr Lockhart says in one note to Mr Whewell,

"I"The article appears to me very excellent," and in another,

have just seen Murray, who  good judge of the probable
a

            of
                              is is

                                                    is
                                                        is
                                                             a

                                                                                          1,
popularity of an article, and he says yours on Herschel would be

greatly improved by some more quotations of an interesting

character." The second note dated March and thus, perhaps,

in the long interval which elapsed before the publication of the

article, Murray's suggestion was adopted; for there are several

quotations. As      the case with many of Professor Whewell's

articles, we find anticipations of the matter afterwards produced in

his great works; here especially we may notice his views on the

nature induction, and on the distinctive merits of Bacon.

We will extract a few characteristic sentences, beginning with

joke which seems sufficiently forgotten to bear revival.

"Some time back, the eminent person who now, as a scientific

- Lord Chancellor,  peculiarly Bacon's successor, expressed a hope

that in the course of the schoolmaster's triumphs the day would

come when every Englishman would be able to read Bacon:

Mr Cobbett, who has long maintained that the true interest of

Englishmen _to keep pigs and read his Register, observed somcis

MERIT or LORD BACON.  55

what contemptuously, that it would be more to the purIpose to
hope we might all come to eat bacon."

     "It is ever thus in the progress of inductive philosophy, as in

the wanderings of the Alpine traveller. The hill which at starting
seemed the only barrier between him and his journey's end,
serves but as a point from which he descries higher mountains to
climb, and wider fields to traverse; but still every step is an

ascent, every new prospect is a gain; and the august forms which
surround him, and the pure atmosphere into which he rises, make
his toil a sport and his perseverance a delight."

     After speaking of the combination of induction and deduction

which forms the entire scheme of a perfect science, the reviewer
remarks that few sciences have completed this cycle; they are
indeed in very varied points of their progress. He continues thus :
"They have long been understood to form a sisterhood, and the

different individuals of the group offer to us all gradations of
growth, from the tottering girl to the full-formed matron. Some
of them, indeed, have been long established in the world, and
can look for no further advancement, except an increase of their
progeny; others appear to experience all the restlessness of youth_
ful expectation and hope of change; others, again, have not yet

left the nursery and the spelling-book."

    A curious illustration of the strange difference of opinion

which exists as to the distinctive merit of Bacon is seen in 'the

fact that Mr Herschel scarcely notices an element which Professor
Whewell considers of vital importance: "But there is one warning

of the inductive legislator respecting the vicious indulgence of this
spontaneous impulse, which it would be wrong not to mention.
We refer to his condemnation of the method of anticipation, as

opposed to that of gradual induction; a judgment indeed which

of itself almost conveys the whole spirit and character of his

philosophy, and which therefore, we have been surprised to find
not more distinctly touched upon in Mr Herschcl's discourse."

     In the review some notice is taken of "that portion of

physical science which Bacon calls `deductio ad praxim'; its appli
cation to the uses and needs of human life." Here, as in his

great works, Professor Whewell looks coldly upon such application

56 KNOWLEDGE ITSELF A coon.

as quite distinct from scienCe itself, and even somewhat unfavour

able to it; he 'was however more tolerant in one of his latest

works, namely, the Novum Organon Renovatum. He says in the

present review:
     "The true and worthy claim of knowledge is that which every

lover of it feels in his own heart ;--that it is valuable for its own
sake; that truth is worth having because it is truth; the more

worth having, the more pregnant and comprehensive the character
which it possesses. Utilitarian moralists may maintain that we
cannot have any wise motive of action except our own advantage;
utilitarian philosophers may maintain that we cannot have any
sufficient inducement for research except the tangible benefit of
our expected discovery. The consciousness of every good man
contradicts the former dogma; the irresistible impulse of every

true philosopher--every man with the spirit of a discoverer--is

inconsistent with the latter. Even if we were to confine ourselves
to the pleasure produced, if we were to put the love of truth on a

level with the love of turtle, still the former delicacy may probably

be more widely and intensely relished, certainly more generally and

equally diffused; and we do not see why the gratification which
men may receive from knowing the laws which regulate the mo
tions of light, is not as worthy our regard as that which they
would derive from travelling from London to Brighton in an hour

and a half, or from breakfasting on fresh strawberries every day

in the year. But in fact the love of knowledge ought not to be
degraded so far as to be weighed ounce for ounce against the plea

sures of sense. It differs from them as a duty differs from an
indulgence. Knowledge is followed because it is itself a good: it

is an end, not a means. There are affections directed towards it
as distinctly marked, and- as elevated in their kind, as any other
portion of our mental constitution. We are its suitors for itself,
and not for its dower; and if we- were allowed to borrow Mr Shandy's

favourite quotation, and to translate as freely as he was in the.
habit of doing, we would say, `Amicus Socrates,' utility is: a plea
sant companion, ` sed magis amica veritas,' but truth is a beloved
friend."

     The review of Herschcl's Discourse is mentioned more than

DR LARDNER.          57

                  \

once in Professor Whewell's letters to his friend Mr Jones. Thus
he says it "took me a good fortnight on a subject quite

Ifamiliar to me, and where had nothing to read." And again:

" You may perhaps recollect when you see the Q. R. that a passage
about the Family Library near the beginning, and one about

Sedgwick and others near the end, are interpolations of the

Iworthy editors. With the latter however by no means quarrel,

except at being made to praise Leslie's style." Mr Jones directed
his attention to various striking passages in the book which

might be available for quotation.
     Mr Herschel's own opinion of the review will be seen by the

Ifollowing extract from a letter, dated Sept. 29, 1831: "Had
Iknown where you were should not have let so long elapse with

out thanking you for the splendid review you put forth on my
poor book, as well as for the high treat of your two reviews of the
science of the English Universities and Lyell's Geology--the latter

I Iespecially have read over till have almost got it by heart, and
Ithink more of it than- will trust myself to say. As to my own

Ishare of your critical dispensations, can only say that it seems to

me to approach as nearly to the nature and value of posthumous

Ifame, as any contemporary applause can possibly do, and that

should have envied the author of any work if a stranger, which

could have given occasion for such a review."

     Mr Herschel's Discourse was published in Lardu-er's Cabinet

Cyclopoedia, and he afterwards contributed to the same series an
elementary Treatise on Astronomy. Professor Whewell was not

  quite satisfied with the channel which his eminent friend thus

  accepted for his writings. Dr Lardner was a man of scientific

  attainments, and of considerable ability for popular exposition;
  his importunity in urging the fulfilment of the promises which

  he obtained of cooperation in his Cyclopaedia, and his name
  Dionysius, which it was conjectured he had himself modified from

  the more familiar Denis, naturally led to the appellation tyrant,
' which was given to him] in a good-tempered manner by Southey

  and other literary men of the period. He made various attempts
  to induce Professor Whewell to join his staff, and in particular
  during the present year wished to engage him to write on Poli

58 RESIGNS THE PROFESSORSHIP.

tical Economy; but the applications were in vain. Professor

IWhewell, perhaps, mentioned the matter to Mr Jones, as we may

conjecture from a sentence in a letter from him, " should like to

write a treatise for the tyrant if he would wait two or three

years, but he shall not have the pre'mices of my speculations."

   I may briefly notice an octavo pamphlet, entitled, Reply to

" Observations on the Plans for a new Library, (be. by a member of
the First Syndicate." By a member of both Syndicates. Cambridge,

1831.

     This consists of 36 pages, besides the Title and the prefatory
notice on four pages; it was published anonymously, but may

be safely attributed to Professor Whewell. The "Observations"
Iwere,
        believe, written by Mr Peacock; they advocated a

design for the new Library which was proposed by Mr Cockerell.

The "member of both Syndicates" was in favour of a design

which was proposed by Messrs Rickman and Hutchinson. After
the delay of a few years the University finally chose Mr Cockerell

as the Architect for the new Library. The University seems to

have been unfortunate in this and some other of its architectural

Iefforts; for further discussion of the matter may refer to a

pamphlet, entitled : Observations on some recent University Build
ings...by Francis Bashforth, M.A., Fellow of St John's College,

Cambridge, 1853.

The year 1832 was full of work for Mr Whewell. He was

busy in the construction or reconstruction of some of his me

chanical text-books, in drawing up a Report on Mineralogy for
the British Association, and in the composition of his Bridgewater

Treatise. To these we must add his college duties, which had

Jnow probably reached their greatest extent, and his incessant

efforts to rouse his able but languid friend, Mr ones, to continue
his labours in Political Economy.

     We need not wonder that he resigned the professorship of
Mineralogy; he was succeeded, to his great satisfaction, by Mr
W. H. Miller. On retiring from the oflice Mr Whewell presented

to the University a collection of books and specimens, together

with the sum of £100. The specimens consisted of about 1000

articles, in a great measure arranged, ticketed, and catalogued:

MRS SOMERVILLE.  59

the money was to be devoted towards the erection and fitting of a

room for the reception of the books and minerals.

    On Feb. 3, Mr Whewell says, in a letter to Mr Jones, "I am

plunging into term-work, hurried and distracted as usual ;--the

Ionly comfort is the daily perception of what have gained by
Igiving up the professorship. If can work myself free so as to
I Ihave a little command of my own time, think shall be wiser
Iin future than to mortgage it so far. Quiet refiexion is as neces

sary as fresh air, and can scarcely get a breath of it."

     In April, Mrs Somerville with her husband, and Sir W. R.
Hamilton of Dublin, paid a visit to Mr Whewell, who was much

pleased with his distinguished guests. Mrs Somerville acknow

ledged in warm terms the satisfaction she had felt, "A week such

Ias we passed at Cambridge does not often occur in the course of

one's life, and assure you the impression it has made will not be

efi'accd." A few letters from this remarkable lady are preserved

among Mr Whewell's papers, and it is curious in connexion with

them to recall a circumstance connected with her childhood. Mrs

Fairfax regretted the money spent on her daughter's early educa

tion, as she had not learnt even to write fairly and to keep
accounts. The deficiencies were fully supplied in after life; for

the authoress of the Mechanism of the Heavens could have found
little difficulty in household arithmetic, and her hand-writing is
conspicuous for its regular beauty. No letters in the large collec
tion which Dr Whewell preserved, are finer specimens than those

 which conclude with the honoured name of Mary Somerville.

     In June Mr Whewell attended the meeting of the British
Association at Oxford. Fifteen years later Dr Hawkins, the
Provost of Oriel, reminded him of the earlier visit, saying, "You
were to have been one of my guests when the British Association

Ifirst met in Oxford, but Buckland caught you away. Shall be

 more fortunate on this occasion, and shall we also have the

pleasure of receiving Mrs Whewell?" In August Mr Whewell
made an architectural tour in Normandy in company with Mr
Rickman; the materials which he collected were published in the
second edition of his work on German Churches. In October he

preached at Bury in behalf of some schools. In a Parliamentary

60 REVIEW OF LYELL's GEOLOGY.

election in December he seems to have supported Mr Lubbock,

afterwards Sir J. W. Lubbock, who was not successful.

The correspondence of Mr Whewell with various scientific

friends seems to begin in the present year--namely, with Professor

De Morgan, Professor Phillips, Professor Rigaud, and Mr Eaton

Hodgkinson. Professor De Morgan consulted him respecting an

important memoir on Physical Astronomy, to which it was pro

posed to award a medal by the Astronomical Society. The busi

ness of the British Association led to his intimacy with Professor

Phillips, who was then connected with the Yorkshire Philosophical

Society. With Professor Rigaud he corresponded first on some

points in the history of Mechanics, and afterwards on circum

stances connected with the life of Newton. Mr Hodgkinson

invited Mr`Whewell's attention to- the experiments he was then

making on the impact of bodies; these afterwards formed the

subject of a communication to the British Association.

   I shall now notice some publications which belong to this year.

     Mr Whewell reviewed the second volume of Lyell's Principles

of Geology, in pages 103...132 of the Quarterly Review, Number

93, published in March, 1832. The review was written at the

request of Mr Lyell, who supplied Mr Whewell with the sheets in
the course of the printing. Mr Lyell was in some fear that the

review would be finished before all the sheets had been received

and read. This volume, like the first, is highly praised by the

reviewer, and on one very important-point he is on the same side
Ias the author.
                 will extract a few sentences:

" His [Mr Lyell's] first volume contained a very masterly expo--

sition of the present mode of action and the intensity of the

moving forces of the earth, with a defence of the sufficiency of

these to explain all the geological phenomena which belong to

that part of the subject. The present volume is occupied with

various discussions on the laws and limits of the variability of

organisation, and is an estimate of the nature and amount of the

alterations which causes, belonging to the animal and vegetable

world, are now producing. The author's conclusion  : is,  that the

changes of this kind at present going on, are highly important

towards the explanation of many of the facts of geology but that

            ENGLISH ADJEOTIVES.                              61

the appearance of new species at successive epochs, which we learn

from irresistible geological evidence to have repeatedly occurred, is

a fact not belonging to the operation of that tendency to change in

organised beings, which we see still brought into play."

The following sentences are in the same vein as some in the

review of the first volume:     -

"The Huttonians, Mr Lyell's predecessors, thought, that when

they had laid the materials of their calcareous or siliceous strata

at the bottom of the sea, the action of subterraneous fire was

requisite in order to convert them into sparry limestone or quartz

rock. They deemed it necessary to bake their cake, when they
had kneaded it; and all will recollect their exultation when Sir

James Hall drew from his oven a marble loaf made of chalk flour.

What does Mr Lyell intend to substitute for the Plutonic cookery
of these elder assertors of the constancy of nature? Or is he
prepared to maintain that this application of fire is superfluous,

and that time alone, who does so much for him, will give the due

solidity and structure to the stratified masses?"

     The following allusion is -to Sir R. Murchison and his former
exploits in the hunting-field: "The same geologist has further

had the joyous recollections of his earlier life revived by viewing

and digging out of that locality a fine fossil fox, ..."

Two opinions on this review .are contained in a letter from

Mr Jones of March 20: "Herschel likes your review of Lyell

much, but almost laments the jokes, good he says, but he does not

like to spare your `strong statement and sound and lucid philo
"Isophy' even for good jokes."
                                like your last on Lyell better

than any thing you have done in that way--the style is much
                             '
the best."

A paper by Mr Whewell on English Adjectives occupies pages

359...372 of the Philological Museum, Vol. I, 1832.

Adjectives may be divided into two classes, which are called

adjectives of quantity and adjectives of relation; the main purpose
of the essay is with adjectives of the second class; " those, namely,

which have a manifest and distinctly felt reference to some primi

tive: either a concrete substantive, as wooden, fatherly, or a verb

as tiresome,seemly."                                      ~

 62 CLIPT worms.

      The subject of the essay had a special interest for Mr Whewell
 on account of the demands which his scientific friends made upon
 him for the terminology they required in order to expound their
 researches. ` Some of the points noticed in the essay appear again
 in the Aphorisz concerning the language of Science, which form
 part of the Philosophy'of the Inductive sciences. Thus we have,
 here as there, kallesthetz'cs suggested as the word to describe the

 doctrine of the perception of beauty. This word allows of a cor

 responding adjective; Mr Whewell says: " Tasty, as Mr Coleridge

 has observed, is a word which milliners only can venture upon."
       The following is the last paragraph of the essay:
      "Even in genuine English words it sometimes happens that the

 adjective has been derived from its root viewed under some par
 ticular association, so that the reference to the fundamental notion
 as commonly understood is by no means obvious. Of this we
 have a good instance in the excellent proverb, "home is home, be

 it ever so homely." A writer of Latinised English would perhaps

 thus separate the feelings, which the early framers of our lan
 guage have mingled: "The scene of our domestic comforts must
 always have a peculiar charm, in spite of the inelegance which is
 often found among our familiar habits."

      The present contribution to the Philologt'cal illuse'um, and an
 other in 1833, have simply the letter W. subscribed. The W. W.,
 which at a later period was so familiar to Cambridge men, might
at this date more naturally have suggested William Wordsworth;
and to him, probably, we may attribute a Translation of the First
Book of the Eneid, subscribed with these letters, in the first
volume of the Philological Museum.

    A pamphlet of 8 octavo pages bears the title Clipt Words; it

Ihas neither date nor name, but believe it is by Mr Whewell, and
Ipresume that it may belong to about the year 1832. will extract

the introductory paragraph, and a few examples :
      " The strength and singleness of the principal accent in English

words point out one part of each word or phrase as prominent and
characteristic: and our love of speed and dislike to long words
give us a tendency to select and employ this prominent part, re
jecting the other syllables as a superfluous appendage. Such a

      BRITISH ASSOCIATION.                                  63

tendency is shewn at first when expressions are used in a familiar

or humorous manner: but the words thus clipt are often gradually

established as respectable portions of the language, and end by

being as completely recognized as any part of the vocabulary."
     " Phiz is in common use for physiognomy, which was formerly

called phys'nomy, and in Spenser is written visnomy, perhaps as

though connected with visage."
     "The old word, a chapman (haufmann), for a tradesman, has

been curtailed into a chap."
     " The drawing-room was originally, what Mrs Margaret Bellen

it,

                 I
den calls the withdrawing-room."
     " Doll perhaps comes from idol, idole."

    In the year 1833 Mr Whewell's Bridgewater Treatise appeared,

and also the first of a long seriesof papers on the Tides in the

Philosophical Transactions;  shall speak of these after noticing

some other matters of less importance. .

    In June 1833 the British Association met at Cambridge.
Mr Whewell induced M. Quetelet of Brussels and Sir W. R.
Hamilton of Dublin to attend the meeting; the latter had hesi

tated on first receiving the invitation on account of his approaching
marriage; for he says: "this will make so sensible perturbation
                                       Ia
in my orbit, that do not venture to predict when shall returnis I
to the perihelion of the British meeting."

Mr Whewell was one of the Secretaries of the meeting, and

delivered an address similar in character to those which are nowis

usually given by the President for the year. It contained on

pages xi...xxvi of the volume of the Association for 1833.

This Address very vigorous and interesting, containing the

brief exposition of principles which were afterwards developed in
the author's works. Thus we have Astronomy recognized as "not

only the queen of sciences, but, in a stricter sense of the term, the

only perfect science." We are told that "a combination of theory
with facts, of general views with experimental industry, requi
site even subordinate contributors to science .... ..Or the word
in
                               it
                                   is it

                                                   is

                                                     it

                                                      if

                                                                                   is

                                                                             it
theory be unconquerably obnoxious, as to some appears to be,

will probably still be conceded, that  the rules of facts, as well

as facts themselves, with which        our business to acquaint our

 64 MR HARE LEAVES CAMBRIDGE.

 selves." The superiority of science to art is strongly enforced,

though with due gratitude to the latter. _" Art has ever been the

 mother of Science; the comely and busy mother of a far loftier and

 serener beauty."

    I do not know how the extreme antiquity of Astronomy is sup

 ported, which is implied in the statement on page xxiv, that for
 its success "the labour of the most highly gifted portion of the

 species for 5000 years has been requisite."
      Early in June Mr Whewell made an architectural tour in

Northamptonshire in company with Mr Rickman; later in the
summer he accompanied Professors Sedgwick and Airy on a geo

logical excursion.

     In October Mr Whewell obtained relief from part of his College

duties, particularly from all that related to financial matters, by
engaging, as Assistant-- tutor, Mr Perry, now Bishop of Melbourne.

A report in consequence arose that he had himself resigned the

tutorship, and he had to contradict this, and to explain the circum

stance to various correspondents.

    In July Mr J. C. Hare took up his abode in the Rectory of

Hurstmonceux, and his departure from Cambridge was a great
loss to his friends in the University. Mr Whewell succeeded to
his rooms in College, which have always been much admired on
account of their pleasant situation in the new Court, looking down

the lime tree avenue. In speaking of one of the rooms to his
predecessor, in a letter dated Sept. 22, Mr Whewell says: "it is

Ireally very pretty, and think prettier with my furniture than it

Iwas with yours, as hope you will have the sagacity to perceive

and the candour to allow in November." Mr Hare was unable to

pay the visit to Cambridge in November, and in a letter, dated
Dec. 13, he says: "Thank you for your ample account of our

Irooms: but really you must suppose me to be the most super

candid person in the world, to fancy that should allow that they
look as well now as they used to do, when they used to be the
admiration of everybody who entered them, were so often pro
nounced to be unique and ganz einzig, and when Lander declared
that the only thing which would induce him to live in England

Iwould be to live in them. However, have no doubt that in

                          ON DEFINITIONS.                           65

  your hands they will be very well-looking, although those who
  remember the first temple might some of them feel inclined to

  regret it."

     Late in the year Sir J. Herschel left England to take up

  his abode at the Cape of Good Hope, in order to survey the stars

  of the Southern Hemisphere; and during the next four years he

  wrote long and interesting accounts Of his occupations to his
- friend Mr Whewell. He returned to England in 1838. On

  Dec. 10 Mr Whewell mentions in a letter to Mr Jones, that he

had just began his book, that  is,   the History           the Inductive
                                             of
Sciences.                                              of
                                               Definitions, occurs  on
    A paper by Mr Whewell, 0n the Use          Vol. II, 1833.

pages 263...272 of the Philological Illuseam,

   The doctrine here enforced  is    that which he always main
                                 is
tained, namely, that definition the last stage in the progress of

knowledge, and not the starting--point: see the Philosophy  of      the

Inductive Sciences, 2nd edition, Vol. 11, pages 11...16. The illus

trations given in the paper, for the most part, reappear in the

author's later writings.  I  give one as an example:

   "A lady who was describing an optical experiment which had

been shewn her by a great philosopher, said: " He talked about

increasing and diminishing the angle of incidence; and at last
                                     is
                                         is

                                                               it

                                                            :I
found he only meant moving my head up and down." The phi

losopher's phraseology would have been far less commendable

than the lady's, he had not known that his terms referred to an
              if

                    of
essential, and her's to an accidental, condition of the experiment."

See the Philosophy the Indultive Sciences, 2nd edition, Vol. II,

page 25.

   The following interesting anecdote        not reproduced in the

author's later works; though there     an allusion to       in the

Philosophy the Inductive Sciences, 2nd edition, Vol. II, p. 504of
    "At one of the meetings of the Geological Society of London,
a
   memoir was read on " The Green Sand," by an eminent member

of the Society. At these meetings, the readings are followed by

oral discussions, usually conducted with a rare mixture of acute

ness and good breeding. On the occasion just mentioned, distin
                                                           a
guished geologist, well known both for the extent of his knowledge5

   W.

66 OPINION 0F MR MALTHUS.

and the fastidiousness of his taste, stated that he had three objec;
tions to the Title of the paper: First, to the article The, since
there are several green sands: second to the adjective Green, since
the stratum spoken of is more commonly red: third to the sub
stantive Sand, because in many cases it is more calcareous than
siliceous. The subtlety of this criticism was applauded: but the
name still keeps its ground, and is to this day a good and ser
viceable name, inasmuch as it is universally understood to desig
nate certain members in a known and widely extended series of

strata."

     To this paper on Definitions, Mr Malthus seems to allude in

I Ia letter dated April 1, 1833: " confess was a little alarmed at it

at first; and thought it was an attack upon my definitions in

I IPolitical Economy, which certainly do not consider as useless.

agree with you in thinking that new definitions of terms are not
always necessary to get at truth; and that the most exact defi
nitions are not so much the causes as the consequences from our

Iadvances in knowledge. At the same time, should say, that in

regard to this latter position, they act and react upon each other,
and that without some understanding as to the meaning of the
words used the advances in knowledge would be very slow, though
it might still be quite true that you would not arrive at the very
best definitions, till a very great progress had been made."

                CHAPTER V.

                BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.

THE Bridgewater Treatise was probably the work which first
made Mr Whewell famous in the wide circle of general readers,

as distinguished from the cultivators of science. It is well known

that the eight thousand pounds left by the Earl of Bridgewater for

the production of a work on the Power, Wisdom, and Goodness of

God, was divided among eight selected writers; to Mr Whewell

was assigned the subject of Astronomy and General Physics con
sidered with reference to Natural Theology. The work was pub
lished in 1833; it was the first of the series, and perhaps has been

the most popular of them on the whole. It is an octavo volume

of nearly 400 pages; four other editions in the same size were

issued between the present date and 1837; and subsequently two

Ieditions in a smaller size were issued, the last in 1864. There is

believe no variation of any importance in the successive editions,

so that the work is one of the few examples of nearly permanent
Iform in the author's career.
                               have used the third edition, which

is dated 1834.  .
J.The work is dedicated to the Bishop of London, Dr C.

Blomfield, by whom Mr Whewell had been selected as one of the

writers. It was reprinted in New York, and translated into

German. ~

     The treatise is divided into three Books, which are entitled

Terrestrial Adaptations, Cosmical Arrangements, and Religious
Views. The first of these three Books seems to me on the whole
the most striking; the way in which the laws and facts of nature
work in harmony to secure the wellbeing of man and animals
and plants is illustrated with great force and variety. The

                                                                                         5--2

68 ` BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.

chapter devoted to the Atmosphere furnishes a very remarkable
example; the diversity and the importance of the functions which

the atmosphere discharges are exhibited in a most impressive

manner, and the inference is irresistibly drawn that such exquisite

adjustment testifies to the existence of an intelligent and bene

ficent Creator. The second Book presents less novelty than the

first, except in the last chapter, where the advantages resulting

from Friction are developed with great ingenuity: the chapter is

somewhat out of place in this Book, as a note at the beginning of

it admits. The third Book is remarkable for two chapters in

which Inductive and Deductive Habits of Mind are contrasted;

Mr Whewell holds the former to be of greater value in science,

Iand to have a stronger tendency to religion than the latter: this
opinion he never relinquished.   venture to doubt the propriety

Iof the distinction he draws, and the accuracy of the judgment he
pronounces; but the few remarks  shall offer on the subject will

be more appropriate in connexion with his works of an exclusively

scientific kind.

A few points of detail may be briefly noticed.

     On page 83 Mr Whewell refers to the law according to Which
water contracts as the temperature diminishes till we come near

the freezing point, and then by a further diminution of the tem

perature it contracts no more, but expands till the point at which

it becomes ice. The important consequences of this law are traced

and applied to lakes and seas. It is however now known that salt

water, unlike fresh water, continues to contract as the temperature

is lowered to the freezing point: but this does not affect the

inferences drawn in the treatise to any appreciable extent.
     With respect to sound we read on page 122 "The gravest sound

has about thirty vibrations in a second, the most acute about one

thousand." A correspondent in 1839` called Professor Whewell's

attention to this passage, and pronounced the number one thousand

much too small; although no change was made, there can be no

doubt that the number ought to be between three and four

thousand.

    A paragraph from pages 202 and 203 has been transformed

into blank verse by Mr J. E. Reade, and printed in the Notes to

                       FIRST LAW or MOTION.                                              69

Canto V. of his poem on Italy, 1838. Mr Reade says "That a

simple relation of the operations of Nature form Poetry of the

highest order,...the following passage will testify, being merely a

passage, and not a selected one, from Whewell's Bridgewater

Treatise, thrown into blank verse." The poem was abridged in

Ilater editions, and the passage does not occur in them; will

therefore reproduce                                      it,and the reader may compare   with the
                                                                                         it
original, and decide whether he prefers the prose or the verse.is if
                                                                                                 is
Say not man only perishes: he sharesa.                                                                      a
The lot decreed to all save God himself.
The oak endures for centuries, and falls;
The crumbling Mountains change, and earthquakes cast them
From their foundations: even the sea retires,
And the emerging green field smiles above
The rear of weltering waves: the starry worlds
Fall, and their place in heaven is known no more.
The Sun and Moon have written on their foreheads
The lines of age; that they must end: they have
Only longer respite given than men.
Th' ephemeris live their hour, man threescore years;
Empires, too, have their centuries, their rise,
Their spring and autumn; and volcanic fires
Hurl the fixed Island from his Ocean throne!
The very revolutions of the sky
Which make our time, will languish, and stand still.

On page 233 the rotation of the Earth on its axis                                        very

strangely given as an illustration of the first law of motion; this

will probably be considered as unsatisfactory. For the law asserts

that a particle in motion, acted on by no force, will move uni--

formly in a straight line; and the rotation of a rigid body, so far

from falling under this simple law, a matter for profound mathe
                                                                     is
matical investigation. It true that
                                                                        if

                                                                              a

                                                                                     it
                                                                     homogeneous sphere be

put in rotation round a diameter, and left free, will rotate round

that diameter uniformly and permanently; but such a result will

not hold in the case of all bodies whatever, put in rotation round
                                                                     if

any straight lines: though some writers not conversant with the

subject have supposed that this would be the case in virtue of a
                                                                         '
principle of inertia.

In pages 269...280 Mr Whewell has occasion to allude to

question which he afterwards discussed in his Plurality of 'Worlds,

7O REMARK BY SIR J. HERSCHEL.

namely, whether the various bodies of the sky are inhabited; it is

curious to see that though he does not, as in his later work, reject

the notion of such inhabitants, yet he speaks with cautious reserve.
He says "No one can resist the temptation to conjecture, that

these globes, some of them much larger than our own, are not dead
and barren..." " To conjecture is all that we can do..." "...a few

of the shining points which we see scattered on the face of the sky

in such profusion, appear to be of the same nature as the earth,
and may perhaps, as analogy would suggest, he like the earth, the
habitations of organized beings..." On the whole his own opinion

seems even now to have taken that position in which it subse

quently remained fixed.

     With reference to the Bridgewater Treatise, Sir John Herschel
makes the following remark: "But that a great change in his

views as to the origin of our fundamental axioms must have

taken place between the production of these [the History and the
Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences] and the last-mentioned
work, may be inferred from a remarkable passage in that Treatise,
in which he distinctly refers the origin of even the axioms of

Mathematics to experience, e. to slow process of inductive ob
             ;A

                                    is is

                                                        'i.

                                                    a
servation, growing with our growth, and not to any innate pm'or'i
                                                             d,
intuition."
                                                               p.

                                                                    it
             reference          given to Bridgewater Treatise, *336,

ch. Ix. et seq. where IX apparently a mistake for VI. But
seems to me, from the study of Dr Whewell's works and corre--

spondence, that his main philosophical doctrines were completely

formed at the epoch of the appearance of the Bridgewater Trea

tise, when he was nearly forty years old; and thus a few sentences,

which might appear to bear a contrary interpretation, must not
be opposed to the uniform current of his language. Sir John

Herschel, venture to think, gives an incorrect sense to the pas
I
                                                              in
    if
                  it

                            is
sage; the word axiom, which he employs twice, does not occur

the original, though            true we do have first principles. Mr

Whewell might perhaps have been more cautious in some of his

expressions  his attention had been drawn to them, but even as

they stand they may, without any forcing, be understood consist

ently with the opinions explicitly maintained in his later works.

By first principles here he very probably meant the foundations

ARGUMENT FROM DESIGN.  71

 of applied sciences; for example, in political economy the first

 principles may be certain facts as to population, wealth, rent, and

 the like.

     In a biographical dictionary of merit the following strange

 statement occurs with respect to the Bridgewater Treatise, which

 has been obviously deduced by some perversion from the lan

guage of Sir J. Herschel: "In this work we have the idea which

 he afterwards elaborated, that the origin of even the axioms of

 mathematics is not due to any innate a priori intuition, but to

 experience, or a. slow process of inductive observation." To make

this agree with Sir J. Herschel's opinion, we must change elabo

 rated into opposed or contradicted.

    IAs have already stated the last edition of the Bridgewater

Treatise is the seventh, which was published in 1864; it is in

small octavo, but corresponds very nearly page for page with the
older editions: I-have compared it with the third, and find that

even the misprint of F ourrier, for Fourier, is preserved on page 76.

     This edition contains a new preface in fourteen pages. After

showing how the argument from design had been employed by
Socrates and by Cicero, Dr Whewell proceeds to notice the form

which some of the arguments against design have assumed in

modern times. It has been asserted that the structure of animals

has become what it is by the operation of external circumstances
and internal appetencies. Dr Whewell considers that there are

two enormous assumptions which make such speculations a mere

work of fancy.
     " First, it is assumed, that the mere possibility of imagining a

series of steps of transition from one condition of organs to an
other, is to be accepted as a reason for believing that such tran-.

sition has taken place:
     " And next, that such a possibility being thus imagined, we may

assume an unlimited number of generations for the transition to
take place in, and that this indefinite time may extinguish all
doubt that the transitions really have taken place."

     Dr Whewell quotes a passage relative to the eye from an ad
vocate of the principle of natural selection; he does not give the

name of the author.

72 REVIEW BY SIR D. BREWSTER.

There is an article in the Quarterly Review of October, 1833,

on four of the Bridgewater Treatises, of which Mr Whewell's is

one. The Reviewer, while admitting the eminence of the authors

selected to write this series of works, expresses a dissatisfaction,

which has been very generally felt, at the arrangements made

for disposing of the Bridgewater bequest.

     An article in the Edinburgh Review of January, 1834, is
devoted to Mr Whewell's Treatise; we may safely attribute it

to Sir D. Brewster, who wrote thus to the author on June 10th,

1833: "These distractions, however, have not prevented me from

reading your volume, which has been my companion in two jour

I Inies to the Highlands, and need scarcely say that never derived
Imore pleasure or instruction from any other book. Did not
Ithink the opinion would be general, would not have ventured to

say to yourself that ~I know of no other person who could have

written such a Work. Some objections, however, have occurred to

me in reading the Chapters on Terrestrial adaptations, especially

the one on the length of the year; and if they do not disappear on

Ia farther examination of the subject, may perhaps refer to them

in a notice of your volume, which Mr Napier has requested me to

draw up for the October number of the Edinburgh Review. It is

Iprobable that have not seized the spirit of the Chapter under the

cerebral agitation of a Mail Coach." The review, while praising

the ability and eloquence of the treatise, does not consider it

of great importance as a contribution to Natural Theology;

Sir G. C. Lewis mentions it as a "dull attack on Whewell's

Bridgewater Treatisez" Letters, page 32. Professor J. D. Forbes
wrote to Mr Whewell: "It was in many respects an unfortunate

article in the Edinburgh, and as to the tone in which it was
Iwritten, am sure the author was not aware of its causticity,
Ias indeed
            know from eaperience he never is."

The Edinburgh Review agrees with the Quarterly in the
Idissatisfaction
                  have mentioned above.

Dr Whewell was always unwisely prompt in noticing the

criticisms of reviewers; and he replied to the article in the

Edinburgh Review, in pages 263.268 of the British lllagazine
for March, 1834: this periodical was edited by his friend Mr

OPINION OF MR MALTHUS.                                   73

Rose. One paragraph may be noticed as enunciating a principle

which was developed and enforced by the author in later publi

cations, especially in his Memoir on the Transformation of Hypo

theses. The critic had charged him with founding his argument

on precarious theories, as for instance, the undulatory theory of
light, and the doctrine of a resisting medium. He replies, " But,

it may be said, you found your arguments on transitory theories,

and when the theory falls, the cause you have pretended to

support with such buttresses is shaken. To answer this objection
Iat full length, would lead me too far.
                                            will only observe, that

when a theory, which has been received on good evidence, appears

to fall, the really essential and valuable part of it survives the

fall; that which has been discovered continues to be true."

There is nothing of special importance in the reply, but it is a

welcome relief in the course of a dreary volume, which seems

to have been devoted mainly to the purpose of excluding dis

senters from the Universities.

Mr Whewell's Bridgewater Treatise afforded much gratification

tohis numerous friends and correspondents.

Mr Davies Gilbert, who, as President of the Royal Society, had

been officially charged with the execution of the will of the Earl

of Bridgewater, expressed himself as delighted in the highest
"Idegree. His letter has the following postscript:
                                                    am very
Imuch pleased by your Inductive and Deductive Habits, but

hear that some mathematicians are quite violent against them;
Iand displeased with the note from St Helena, page 338.
                                                         once

paid a visit to Dr Parr at his house near Warwick--it was forty

years ago--and on that occasion he more than once went into

the subject pretty much as you have treated it."

    Mr Malthus says, ". . .I can assure you now with perfect sincerity

Ithat have been quite delighted and much instructed by many

parts of the work. Perhaps the very early portion of the volume

. is not quite so good as the rest; but the great mass is excellent;

and on the whole it appears to me that you have brought forward

very valuable materials for your purpose, and have arranged and

applied them in a very masterly and striking manner. The proofs
of design are indeed every where so apparent, that it is hardly

74 OPINION OF MR J. BLANCO \VHITE.

possible to add much to the force of the argument as stated and
illustrated by Paley; but still it is gratifying to contemplate the

new illustrations which the almost infinite variety of nature

furnishes, and these you have brought forward in abundance."

   J.Mr H. Rose was enthusiastic in his praise, especially com

mending the beauty, eloquence, and ease of the style. He says,

"I have often admired the richness and majesty of your sentences.

Now they have the only thing they ever seemed to me to want,

pe1fect ease."
"Ii Mr Rose also remarks,
                           see that you have contented your
I'self, and rightly think, with asserting the strength of proof from

contrivance to a contriver without arguing against the denial of

that truth. Will you tell me where that is best done " Judging
                                        a
from the tone of recent speculation, the point which Mr Rose
                                         I
considered to be rightly assumed would require to be fully dis      '4'
                                                   II
cussed in any future work of the same nature as the Bridgewater it

Treatises.                              letter written by J.
     Some sentences may be quoted from

Blanco White, so well known for his remarkable ability and for

the strange vicissitudes in his life and in his religious opinions:

" ...I took up the book in the morning, and could not leave out

of my hands till had read through that very day.        was too
                I

                                   a

                                   it
well acquainted in my youth with the writers whom you refute,

and having long and attentively weighed their evasions of the

arguments for design and final causes in the creation,                 found

myself prepared for such rapid perusal as gave your book.
The interest besides, which you have given to your argument, the

masterly hand with which you manage the most extensive views

of a vast subject, the truly philosophical arrangement which pre

vents vagueness and confusion in the statement of the subject--

acted upon my mind like charm, and made me read on with
                       a

a  more healthy and delightful glow of soul than ever experi
                                        I

enced from any Poem."

   The BridgeWater Treatise was reviewed by the eminent

German astronomer Littrow in the Vienna Jahrbi/Lcher der Litera

tur, 1838.

                      CHAPTER VI.

                               RESEARCHES ON THE TIDES.

 ON the subject of the Tides Mr Whewell expended much time
 and labour; he published his results in fourteen memoirs in the
 Philosophical Transactions, the first in the volume for 1833, and
 the last in the volume for 1850. He seems to have originally
 taken up the subject with the idea of reporting on it to the
 British Association. In 1837 a royal medal was awarded to him
 by the Royal Society for his investigations; at that time eight of
 the memoirs had been published, and some account of them
 is given in connexion with the award of the medal: see the
Abstracts of the Papers...of the Royal Society, Vol. IV. pages 6, 7,
24...27.

     An article was published in the United Service Journal for
January, 1838, entitled Account of Mr Whewell's Researches on
the Tides; this also includes the first eight of the memoirs,
giving a rather fuller notice of them than that in the Royal
Society's Abstracts. The article is very good, and was probably
written by Mr Whewell himself.

      The well-known elaborate treatise on Tides and Waves, by the
present Astronomer Royal, appeared in the Encyclopceclia Metro

politana in 1843. In sections VII and VIII of this treatise will
be found frequent reference to Mr Whewell, twelve of whose

memoirs had then been published; with his name is associated

that of another labourer in the same field, namely Mr Lubbock,
whose work ranges between the years 1831 and 1837. In general

great praise is awarded to both these investigators, but the
regret is expressed that they did not follow a better guide than
what is called the equilibrium theory: see Tides and Waves, Arts.

76 FIRST MEMOIR ON THE TIDES.

496 and 571. Mr Lubbock in his Elementary Treatise on the
Tides, 1839, refers frequently to Mr Whewell's contributions to

the subject.  .

Speaking generally, we may say that the main object of Mr

Whewell's researches is to obtain an accurate knowledge of the

facts of the Tides; to employ an illustration which is familiar to
us by frequent use, he occupied the position of Kepler, leaving

that of Newton for some successor. Hence there is little refer

ence to mathematical formulae in the memoirs; for such theory

as Mr Whewell used he was content to follow Bernoulli, and he

seems to haVe regarded the investigations of Laplace as mere

speculations of no practical utility. Perhaps both here and else
where Mr Whewell scarcely appreciated sufficiently the great
ability of Laplace, which is the more remarkable because it was

united with a penetrating sagacity in the discussion of natural

philosophy, not always combined with such eminent mathematical

power: the history of science seems to shew that while Laplace

yields, as all must do, to the transcendent genius of Newton, he
yields to that alone. His researches on the Tides have received

the emphatic commendation of his solitary successor in these

Iabstruse investigations: see Tides and Waves, Art. 117.
         will now briefly notice the memoirs in order. The first

memoir is entitled Essay towards a First Approximation to a Map

of Cotidal Lines,- this was read May 2, 1833: it occupies pages`

147...236 of the volume for 1833.

By cotidal lines is meant lines drawn on the surface of the

ocean, and passing through all the points where it is high water

at the same moment. The memoir is accompanied by two charts,

one exhibiting the greater part of the world, and the other the

British Islands; the cotidal lines are drawn on these charts,

which thus become an epitome of the whole memoir. The charts
are copied, with some modifications derived from Mr Whewell's

later memoirs, in the treatise on Tides and Waves ; the copies are

on a smaller scale than the originals, but are perhaps quite as

convenient for study: see Articles 524, 574...:385 of the treatise.

Sir G. B. Airy records in his Article 579 his dissent from one
of Mr Whewell's opinions: " Mr Whewell has inferred:..that the

                       SECOND MEMOIR ON THE TIDES.

  tides of the Atlantic are mainly of a derivative character, pro
  duced by the tides of the Southern Ocean and transmitted up
  the Atlantic in the same manner in which the tides of the Atlantic
  are transmitted up the English channel. We doubt this en
  tirely." But even at this epoch Mr Whewell seems to have given
  up the opinion, and he formally retracted it subsequently: see the
' last page of the article in the United Service Journal, page 304
  of the sixth memoir, and page 5 of the thirteenth.

       The second memoir is entitled On the Empirical Laws of the
   Tides in the Port of London ; with some Reflexions on the Theory.
  This was received Nov. 13, 1833, and. read January 9, 1834: it
  occupies`pages 15...45 of the volume for 18344.

        The tides depend principally on the moon. The epoch of
  high water, at a given place, follows that of the moon's transit
  across the meridian ; the interval between the two however is not

   constant,'but depends on the positions of the sun and moon.
   Likewise the height of the tide is not constant, but depends on

  the positions of the sun and moon. Mr Lubbock had discussed

   the observations of tides which had been made during nineteen
   years in the port of London, and had given his results in the
  form of tables. Mr Whewell examines these tables in order to

   discover the laws which regulate the variations in the heights of
   the tide and in the interval which occurs between the moon's
  transit and the subsequent tide; and he succeeds in revealing,
   these laws with considerable clearness, at least so far as they
  depend on the moon. He compares his results with Bernoulli's
   theory, and shews that there is a partial coincidence between them.

        This is perhaps the most striking of the memoirs: Sir G. B.
  Airy says in his Article 492, "we confidently refer the reader to
   this investigation as one of the best specimens of the arrangement
   of numbers given by observation under a mathematical form."

  It would be very interesting to know what was actually the

   order of the process adopted : in the memoir the laws seem to be
   first deduced simply from the observations, and then compared
  with the theory; but the course may have been the reverse, that
   is, the theory may have been first consulted for suggestions, and
   the calculations made under their guidance.

78 DIURNAL INEQUALITY.

     The third memoir is entitled On the Results of Tide Observa
tions made in June 1834 at the Coast Guard Stations in Great

Britain and Ireland; this was received March 27, and read April

2, 1835: it occupies pages 83...90 of the volume for 1835.

Observations of tides had been made on the coast of England,

Ireland, and Scotland, from June 7 to June 22 inclusive. These

required to be submitted to calculation before conclusions could be

drawn from them, and at this date only those relating to the south

coast had been discussed. However, some interesting results had

shewn themselves, among which may be noticed the fact that the

sea between the Isle of Wight and the Downs is affected by two

tides, one coming from the north and one from the west. The

observations furnished some corrections for the cotidal lines in the

British seas as drawn in the first memoir.

      The fourth memoir is entitled On the Empirical Laws of the
  Tides in the Port of Liverpool; this was received Nov. 10, and
- read Nov. 19, 1835 ; it occupies pages 1...15 of the volume for 1836.

       Mr Lubbock had discussed the observations of tides which had

been made during nineteen years at the port of Liverpool; and the

fourth memoir stands in the same relation to this discussion as

the second memoir did to Mr Lubbock's discussion of the London

tides: the conclusions support those obtained in the second memoir.

     The fifth memoir is entitled On the Solar Inequality and on

the Diurnal Inequality of the Tides at Liverpool; this was received
Feb. 23, and read March 3, 1836: it occupies pages 131...147 of

the volume for 1836.

In the second and fourth memoirs the laws which connect vari

ations in the tides with the position of the moon had been investi

gated; in the present memoir Mr Whewell proposes to determine
in like manner the influence of the sun on the tides at Liverpool:

this is called the Solar Inequality.        '

" The Diurnal Inequality of the tides is that which makes the

tide of the morning and evening of the same day at the same

place, differ both in height and time of high water, according to a

law depending on the time of the year." The existence of such an

inequality had often been noticed by seamen and others, but its
laws had never been correctly laid down. Mr \Vhewell was the

SIXTH MEMOIR ON THE TIDES.                      79

first person who insisted on the importance of this matter, both in

theory and practice, and from the'date of the present memoir he

gave great attention to it: if he had contributed nothing besides

to the subject of the tides his exposition of the law and the facts

of the diurnal inequality would entitle him to a distinguished

place among cultivators of Physical Astronomy.

     The sixth memoir is entitled On the Results of an extensive
system of Tide Observations made on the coasts of Europe and
America in June 1835; this was received June 2, and read June

16, 1836: it occupies pages 289...:341 of the volume for 1836.

Tide observations were repeated at the British coast-guard stations

similar to those made in June 183%; and also numerous observa
tions were made simultaneously on the coasts of North America,

Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium, Holland, Denmark and Norway.

This extensive work was accomplished by the zealous efforts of the

governments of the various countries. The results furnished cor

rections of the cotidal lines of the first memoir. Accordingly a

map is given containing the cotidal lines of the British seas and

the German Ocean, and also a map containing the cotidal lines

for the coasts of Europe; moreover the range of the high tide in

yards round the British isles and the coasts of the German Ocean

is recorded in a map.

Much valuable information with respect to the diurnal ine

quality was obtained from the observations.

     The tides of the German Ocean presented great difficulties, and
the view taken by Mr Whewell is thus noticed in Article 525 of
the treatise on Tides and Waves. "Mr Whewell...has had re

course to the supposition of a revolving tide in the German Ocean,
in which the tide wave would run as on the circumference of a

wheel, the line of high water at any instant being in the position

of a spoke of a wheel. Although our mathematical acquaintance

with the motion of extended waters is small, we have little hesi

tation in pronouncing this to be impossible."
J.In a letter to Professor
                            D. Forbes, dated Oct. 23, 1856, Mr

Whewell spoke of this sixth memoir thus, "I look upon it as my

great achievement in Tidology." Professor Forbes appears to `
have had in his possession a copy of the thirteenth memoir, but he

80 NINTH MEMOIR ON THE TIDES.

must have forgotten to consult it; for in speaking on the Tides in

his Review of the Progress of Mathematical and Physical Science,
page 20, he lays down that statement of the propagation of tides

in the Atlantic Ocean which, as we have seen, Mr Whewell re

tracted.

    The seventh memoir is entitled On the Diurnal Inequality of
the Height of the Tide, especially at Plymouth and at Singapore;

and on the Mean Level of the Sea; this was received March 7, and
read March 9, 1837: it occupies pages 75...85 of the volume for

1837.

     This is a very interesting paper. The laws of the diurnal

inequality are well established for Plymouth. It appears that the

diurnal inequality vanished four days after the moon was in the

equator. Another rule prevailed at Singapore, where this ine

quality is very conspicuous.

    It is shewn in this paper that the mean height of the sea, that

is half the sum of the heights at high and low water, is nearly
constant at Plymouth; and similarly at Singapore.

     The eighth memoir is entitled On the Progress of the Diurnal
Inequality Wave along the Coasts of Europe; this was received
June 14!, and read June 15, 1837: it occupies pages 227.244 of

the volume for 1837. ,

     The observations made in June 1835 are used to exhibit in

the form of Tables the diurnal inequality for nineteen places;

and for seven of these places the results are also put in the form

of curves: see Tides and W'aves, Art. 563, where this is described

as a " very admirable investigation."  The memoir concludes with

pressing on maritime nations the duty of systematic exertions in

making out the laws of the tides.

     The ninth memoir is entitled On the Determination of the
Laws of the Ticles from short Series of Observations; this was
received June 8 and read June 14, 1838: it occupies pages 231...

251 of the volume for 1838.

     The object of the memoir is to shew that the observations of
the tides for a single year at a given place may be suflicient
to determine the laws of the variations produced by the position

of the moon; such laws for London and Liverpool had been

            TVVELFTH MEMOIlt ON THE TIDES.   81

originally made out by the aid of observations continued for

nineteen years. The materials used in this paper are four years
observations at Plymouth and four at Bristol. Mr Whewell says

that this memoir appears to be suited to wind up the series which

during some years he had laid before the Royal Society from

time to time; however we shall find that five others appeared
J.after this. In a letter to Professor
                                        D. Forbes, already cited,

Mr \Vhewell speaks of the eighth and ninth memoirs as not

important.

    The tenth memoir is entitled On the Laws of Low Water at
the Port of Plymouth, and on the Permanency of Mean Water;
this was received April 11 and read June 6, 1839: it occupies

pages 151...161 of the volume for 1839.
     Sii: years tide observations at Plymouth are here discussed;

the main result is that the height of mean water, that is the

height midway between high and low water, is constant: also the

fluctuations in the height of low water are greater than those in

the height of high water.

The eleventh memoir is entitled On certain Tide Observations

made in the Incl/tan Seas; this was received April 11 and read

June 6, 1839: it occupies pages 163...166 of the volume for

1839.                 .

The chief peculiarity heve noticed is an enormous diurnal

inequality of the heights at two places in the Gulf of Cambay.

    A paper entitled Additional Note to the Eleventh Series of

Researches on the Tides occupies pages 161...174: of the volume

for 1840; this was received Feb. 7 and read April 2, 1840.
     This note discusses some Russia-n observations which resembled

those of the eleventh memoir. The most remarkable case is that

of Petropaulofsk, where the tides "show more clearly than any

that have yet been examined, the manner in which the diurnal

inequality may be so large as to lead to the appearance of only

one tide in the twenty-four (lunar) hours."

     The twelfth memoir is  entitled On the Laws of the Rise and     '
                            during each Tide; this was received
Fall of the Sea's Surface
June 13 and read June 18, 1840: it occupies pages 255...272 of

the volume for 1840.

       W. 6

82 THIRTEENTH' MEMOIR ON THE TIDES.

IfThe result obtained is stated thus : " we suppose a point to

move uniformly through the circumference of a circle in a tidal
half-day, the height of this point above a horizontal line will

represent the height of the surface of the water, supposing the

velocity and the radius to be duly adjusted."

The investigation is founded on five months observations

made at Plymouth, three months observations made at Liverpool,

and twelve months observations made at Bristol. It is said that

" this inquiry may be the more useful, inasmuch as the laws of

rise and fall of the surface are nearly the same at all places; the

differences being, for the most part, of such a kind as can be as
Icertained and allowed for without much difficulty."
                                                      do not

know whether it is meant merely that the laws ought to be the .
same by theory, or that the laws really are the same in fact.
According to the observations of Captain F. W. Beechey, the
tides in the Bristol Channel and the Irish Sea do not follow the

law stated by Mr Whewell: see Philosophical Transactions for

1848, page 110.

     The thirteenth memoir is entitled, On the Tides of the Pacific,
and on the Diurnal Inequality; this was received Nov. 11, and

read Dec. 16, 1847, forming the Bakerian Lecture of the year: it

occupies pages 1...29 of the volume for 1848. _
     This is an interesting paper; and taken in` conjunction with

the article in the United Service Journal to which we have

already referred, will give a good account of Mr Whewell's investi

gations on the Tides

This memoir is subsequent to the treatise on Tides and

Waves by the Astronomer Royal, and refers to that treatise occa

sionally. Some parts of the first memoir are now retracted, so

that we read: "I do not think it likely that the course of the

tide can be rightly represented as a wave travelling. from south to

north between Africa and America."                    -

Mr Whewell in his sixth memoir had arrived theoretically at

the conclusion that at a certain spot of the North Sea the tide

would be almost insensible; this had_been verified by the obser
vations of Captain Hewett, which are recorded in the volume of

the British Association for 1841: see also the treatise on Tides

        FOURTEENTH MEMOIR ON THE TIDES.        83

and Waves, Art. 528. The present memoir alludes to this matter.
Phenomena of a similar kind were afterwards discovered in other

parts   of the British   seas; Philosophical Transactions for 1848,
                                                                                                   `

pages 5, 106, 107, 115.

The present memoir embodies the information respecting the

tides in the Pacific, which had been gained since the appearance

of the first memoir; and special attention is paid to the diurnal

inequality which Mr Whewell first introduced to the serious notice

of those who are practically or theoretically concerned with the

tides.

   IThere still remained a part of the ocean for which good obser

vations had not been made, for Dr Whewell says: " shall not en
tangle myself in the seas broken by innumerable large and small
islands, which extend from Torres Straits to the coasts of India,

Arabia, and Africa..."

    It may be observed that the volume of the Philosophical

Transactions for 1848 contains an important paper by Captain F.

W. Beechey on the Tides in the Irish and English Channels; and

there are papers on the Tides by the Astronomer Royal in the

Volumes for 1842, 1843, and 1845.  ,

     The fourteenth memoir is entitled, On the Results of continued
Tide Observations at several places on the British Coasts; this was

received Oct. 24, 1849, and read Jan. 31, 1850: it occupies pages
227...233 of the volume for 1850.

The results relate to the height of high water, and the varia

tions which this height undergoes between spring tides and neap

tides, and between neap tides and spring tides. "It is found,

by examining the observations at 120 places and throwing the

heights into curves, that the curve is very nearly of the same

form at all these places."
     Mr Whewell's investigations on the tides involved a large

amount of numerical calculation, and he records his obligation to
those who assisted him in this respect. The name of Mr D. Ross
occurs most frequently, and next to his that of -Mr Dessiou; Mr

Bunt, Mr Boddy, and Mr Nayler are also mentioned. Letters
from Mr Ross, Mr Dessiou, and Mr Bunt are preserved among the
papers of Dr Whewell; and their number shews theextent of the

                                         6--2

84 ASSISTANCE or MR BUNT.

labour involved both in the calculations themselves, and in the

general direction and superintendence of them. Mr Dessiou and

Mr Ross were employed under the Admiralty in the Hydrogra

pher's office in London. Mr Bunt resided at Bristol, and was

associated with Mr Whewell, not only in calculations on the tides,

but in some important levelling operations undertaken for the

British Association. Mr Bunt also contributed independently to

the subject of the tides; he constructed a new Tide-Gauge, which

is described in the Philosophical Transactions for 1838, and also

in the treatise on Tides and Waves, Art. 474: and a paper by him

entitled Discussion of the Tide Observations at Bristol was printed
in 'the Philosophical Transactions for 1867. He also published a

Planetarium, which consisted of a large diagram with accompany

ing Tables, designed to represent the planetary motions during a

period of two centuries, ending in 1940: this was highly com

mended by Mr Whewell, Admiral Smyth, Sir J. Herschel, and

Mr Airy. On Mr Bunt's merits Mr Whewell expressed himself

very strongly in a letter to Mr Lubbock, Feb. 2, 1839.

Mr Whewell's memoirs are on the whole very clear, though, as

might have been expected where processes of observation and

Inumerical results enter largely, there are occasional obscurities.

have mentioned one example in the account of the twelfth memoir,

and will notice another. In the second memoir, speaking of the rates

of the lunar to the solar tide, we are told, on page 20, that Laplace

from the Brest observations obtained 26157; while, on page 35,

it is stated that the Brest observations give 26167. In a note to

Art. 537 of the Tides and lVaves, the Astronomer Royal says he

does not know on what authority the number 26157 is ascribed

to Laplace. Also, on page 35 of the memoir, it is stated that,

according to the London observations, the ratio is 29887: the

Astronomer Royal, in the place just cited, has a different result,

and says he does not know on what authority the number 29884.

Iis given : presume the last 4 should be
             is
                                                                        7.,

                                                                          it

                                                                                              is
     On pages 234: and 235 of the ninth memoir Mr Whewell
quotes from Mr Bunt a description of the process of treating the

observations so as to obtain the mean results from them; this

description  difficult to understand, and fortunately                                             repro

VALUE or run MEMOIRS ON THE. TIDES.  85

  duccd in the Tides and Waves, Art. 494, with useful explanatory

  additions.

       But the few obscurities which may be found in the memoirs
  do not detract to any appreciable extent from their substantial
  merits; the memoirs would indeed have been no inadequate

 return for the occupation of a long series of years if profession

  ally devoted to Astronomy, and form a conspicuous example of
  voluntary devotion to science, rarely surpassed in England. The
  notion of drawing cotidal lines- across the great oceans, which

  formed the starting-point of the investigations, proved ultimately
  to be of small value; and much of the earlier labour must have
  been expended with little direct benefit; but attention was thus

  called to the general subject, and the knowledge of the succession
  of the cotidal lines along the coasts of certain seas has been pro
  ductive of valuable results both theoretical and practical. The
  most important parts of Mr Whewell's researches seem to me to
  consist in his discussion of the variations produced in the half
' daily tide by the change in the declination of the moon and in
  her distance from the earth, and his exhibition of the reality and -
  the nature of the daily inequality. The methods employed have
  obtained the high commendation of the Astronomer Royal, who
  expresses himself thus in Art. 496 of his treatise on Tides and
   Waves: " viewing the two independent methods introduced by

  Mr Whewell, of reducing the tabular numbers to law by a process

  of mathematical calculation, and of exhibiting the law to the eye
  without any mathematical operation by the use of curves, we
  must characterize them as the best specimens of reduction of new

  observations that we have ever seen..."

        The work, like so much that is accomplished in science, is

  however of a temporary and introductory character; the efforts of
  the early enquirers in any subject must he often confined to
  preparing the foundation and constructing the scaffolding, leaving
  the erection of the building to those who follow. This is recog
  nised in the official award of a medal for the researches; we read

  in the Royal Society's Abstracts, Vol. IV. page 26 :
        " The interest which attaches to such investigations, which is

  so great during the progress of the structure which is to be raised

86 LIST OF PAPERS ON THE TIDES.

upon them, ceases in many cases when the fabric is completed : a
remark which is applicable to many of the most important re
searches and discoveries in philosophy, where we are accustomed
to regard the last form only in which the theory is compared with
the facts which are observed, and to forget or to neglect the series

of laborious investigations which have led to its establishment, but

which are no longer necessary for its explanation or proof."

   I may remark that Mr Whewell seems to me less felicitous in

this subject than he is elsewhere as to his technical language.
The term semi-menstrual which is much used he himself disliked,

Iand finally changed to semi-mensual; should have preferred

half-monthly. And not even his high authority can reconcile me

to the barbarous compound tidology.

    Mr Whewell issued various occasional papers connected with

Ithe Tides, principally bearing on the practical observations re

quired. will mention them.

Memoranda and directions for Tide Observations. Eight

octavo pages.

     Suggestions for persons who have opportunities to make or

collect Observations of the Tides. Two quarto pages.

    A paper in three quarto pages containing directions by which

persons may reduce the Observations of Tides which they have

made.                                                                 .

     Directions for making a series of Tide Observations. Three

quarto pages containing a. diagram of a tide-gauge.

    Queries for Nautical Men. A single quarto page dated Hydro_

graphic Oflice, Jan. 10, 1837.

     Directions for Tide Observations. The Establishment of the
Place. Three octavo pages from the Nautical Magazine, N0. XXIII.

     Directions for Tide Observations. The Semimenstrual Ine
quality. Five octavo pages from the Nautical Magazine, N0.
XXIV.

Directions for Tide Observations. The Diurnal Difference

of the Tides.  Six octavo pages from the Nautical Magazine,
No. XXX].

     Mr Whewell delivered a lecture on the Tides at Edinburgh in
1834: to the British Association, and also one at the Bristol

REMARKS BY THE DUKE OF SUSSEX.  87

Institution about 1837; a newspaper report of the latter has

been preserved.

     The practical directions respecting the Tides were embodied
by Dr Whewell in an article which he contributed to the Manual
of Scientific Inquiry,----a volume edited for the Admiralty by

J.Sir Herschel. The first edition of the work appeared in 1849 ;

Dr Whewell's article is entitled Directions for Tide Observations,

and occupies about 20 octavo pages; the third edition appeared
in 1859, and in this Dr Whewell's article is slightly enlarged.

     Besides the memoirs and papers already mentioned, there are
a few brief communications by Mr Whewell to the volumes of the

IBritish Association; these will notice in connexion with all his

other scientific memoirs: his last article on the subject is con
tained in the volume for 1851, and bears the disheartening title

On our Ignorance of the Tides.
     There is a very good sketch of the history of the investiga--

tions respecting the tides in the History of the Inductive Sciences;
see the 3rd edition, Vol. II. pages 91, 190, 470: by a misprint on

page 190, which is in all the editions, D'Alembert is named

instead of Maclaurin.

    When the medal was awarded by the Royal Society to Mr

Whewell for his researches on the Tides, the chair was occupied

by the Duke of Sussex; he was intimate with one of the senior

fellows of Trinity College at that period, and from this circum

stance, as well as from the business of the Royal Society, was
probably well acquainted with Mr Whewell. The present section

may be appropriately illustrated by a quotation from the remarks

made by the President on the occasion of the award of the medal

by the Royal Society; see the Abstracts of the Papers, Vol. IV.

page 7.

   I"When read his essays on the architecture of the middle

ages, on subjects of general literature, or on moral and meta
physical philosophy, exhibiting powers of mind so various in

Itheir application and so refined and cultivated in their character,
   feel inclined to forget the profound historian of science in the
accomplished man of letters, or the learned amateur of art; but

it is in his last and highest vocation, whilst tracing the causes

88 SUGGESTION BY MR \VILKINSON.

which have advanced or checked the progress of the inductive

sciences from the first dawn of philosophy in Greece to their

mature development in the nineteenth century, or in pointing
out the marks of design of an all-wise and all-powerful Provi

dence in' the greatest of those works and operations of nature

which our senses or our knowledge can comprehend or explain,

Ithat recognise the productions of one of those superior minds

which are accustomed to exercise a powerful and lasting influence

upon the intellectual character and speculations of the age in

which they flourish."           _

Mr Wilkinson, in a letter dated Dec. 10, 1837, alludes to
"Ithe award of the medal thus:
                                congratulate you on the honour

Iof a Medalist, which the Times told me had been conferred upon
you by the Royal Society.  am sure it is fairly earned. \Vhat a
Iworld of troubles you are involved in, or rather should say a sea
I Iof troubles. Had been of the committee
                                           should have pro

posed, more Romano, a crown of sea-weed, with a motto Mari

devicto."

                CHAPTER VII.

                                                                '

                        18341...1837.

IN the year 1834 Mr Whewell was much engaged in c0rre~

spondence with Professor Faraday, who required a good nomen

clature for the exposition of his researches in Electricity, and

naturally applied to the person generally recognised as the best

authority on scientific language. .Mr Whewell was able to satisfy

his correspondent, who wrote thus on May 15 :
   I"I have taken your advice and the names, and use anode,

cathode, anions, cations, and ions; the last shall have but little
Ioccasion for.
                had some hot objections made to them here, and

Ifound myself very much in the condition of the man with his Son

and Ass, who tried to please every body; but when held up

the shield of your authority it was wonderful to observe how the

tone of objection melted away.

    "I am quite delighted with the facility of expression which the

new terms give me, and shall ever be your debtor for the kind

assistance you have given me."

     Mr Whewell attended the meeting of the British Association
at Edinburgh in September; Dr Chalmers, with whom he was to

have stayed, fell ill, and he became the guest of Professor Forbes.

Previously to the meeting he made a tour in Scotland, and this

furnished him with materials for a communication on architecture

to his friend Mr Rickman.

During this year Mr Whewell invented his Anemometer, that

is, an instrument for measuring the fibres and the direction of the

wind; he described it in a letter to Professor Phillips, then resi-  I
dent at York, who took great interest in the subject, and em

ployed the instrument. Mr Whewell's construction was also

90 WORK ON THE INDUCTIVE SCIENCES.

adopted for some time at other places, but it has now been super

seded by more convenient inventions.
     Mr Whewell was' much pleased with an essay, which belongs

to this date, on the Analogy between Mathematical and llloral
Certainty, by Mr Birks, a student of Trinity College, now Pro

fessor of Moral Philosophy. Mr Whewell distributed copies of

the essay among his friends, and found that his opinion of its

merit was shared by Dr Chalmers, Dean Conybeare, J. C. Hare,

Sir W. R. Hamilton, and Wordsworth. The essay is reprinted in

the volume which contains the Introductory Course of Lectures
given by Professor Birks at Cambridge.

    In this year Coleridge died, and John Sterling, then living as

curate with J. C. Hare, proposed to raise a sum of money to found

a Prize Essay at Cambridge, in commemoration of the philosopher; '

the subject of the Essay was to be the Philosophy of Christianity.
Mr Hare urged the subject on the attention of Mr Whewell,
but did not receive very much encouragement from him; and
finally the Heads of the Colleges declined to accept the pro

position.                           _

The work on the History and Philosophy of the Inductive

Sciences was now being prosecuted vigorously; a letter to Mr

Jones of July 27, 1834, explains the author's plan as then ar--

ranged:

   I"You are to understand that am to consist, of three Books.

Book 1, History of Inductive Science, namely, Astronomy, Mecha
nics, Physics, Chemistry and Botany, historiographized in a new
and philosophical manner. Book 2, Philosophy of Inductive

IScience, which is what want to shew you. It will be dry and
Ihard fear, as it must contain most of the metaphysical discus

sions which have been attended to of late, but it must also con

tain all the analysis of the nature of Induction and the Rules
of its exercise, including Bacon's suggestions. Book 3, Prospects
of Inductive Science. The question of the possibility and method
of applying Inductive processes, as illustrated in the philosophy of
Book 2, to other than material sciences; as philology, art, politics,

and morals."
     Two other matters remain to be noticed under the present

           MR THIRLWALL'S PAMPHLETS.             9].

date, namely the controversy with Mr Thirlwall, and a review of

a book written by Mrs Somerville.

    In the year 1834 some controversy arose in Cambridge respect

ing the admission of dissenters to the University; in this Mr
Whewell and Mr Thirlwall took part. Mr Whewell published two

pamphlets on the subject.

     The first pamphlet is entitled Remarks on some parts of JlIr
Thirlwall's Letter on the Admission of Dissenters t0 Academical
Degrees; it consists of 23 octavo pages. Mr Thirlwall was at that

time a lecturer in Trinity College; he published a Letter to

Professor Turton on the admission of Dissenters to Academical

Degrees: the letter is remarkable for its vigour of thought and

language. In the course of the letter Mr Thirlwall spoke un

favourably 0f the compulsory attendance on College Chapels. Mr

\Vhewell's Remarks bear almost entirely on this point, and touch
but slightly the main question which Mr Thirlwall had discussed;

they are written in a grave and temperate tone.

     The second pamphlet is entitled Additional Remarks on some

parts of Mr Thirlwall's two letters on the Admission of Dis
senters to Academical Degrees; it consists of 19 octavo pages.

Like the former pamphlet this is devoted to combating the
opinion of Mr Thirlwall, that the compulsory attendance at Col

lege Chapel was unfavourable rather than favourable to devotion.

The question is one of great difficulty, and the existing practice

at Cambridge is defended by Mr Whewell with calmness and dis
Icretion.
           should have thought, according to such traditions as

still linger in the University, that the College services at that

date must often have been very far from creditable : Mr Whewell

Imakes some admission to this efl'ect on his page 15, but less dis

tinct than should have expected.
     The discussion excited great interest at the time in Cam

bridge, which was naturally augmented by the fact that Mr

Thirlwall was for his share in it deprived of his lectureship by
Dr Wordsworth, then Master of Trinity College; against this

proceeding Mr Whewell remonstrated urgently and repeatedly.
Some of Mr Whewell's correspondents were strong in their disap
probation of Mr Thirlwall, others were much more moderate in

92 REVIEW OF MRS SOMERVILLE'S BOOK.

their tone: Mr Rose was one of the former class, Mr Hare one of

the latter.

The progress of events has practically settled in favour of

Bishop Thirlwall the question he raised           as to the admission of
                                                  should have been glad
I Idissenters to the University; confess
Iif Mr Whewell had taken the same side.               had the gratification

of hearing the opinion of Bishop Thirlwall quoted with approba

tion at the last meeting which it was found necessary to hold

at Cambridge in order to extend to dissenters the full advantages

of the College endowments; Professor Sedgwick was present to

advocate the opinion he had long maintained, and all resistance

was speedily overcome.

     Mrs Somerville's work On the Connexion of the Physical Sciences
was reviewed by Mr Whewell on pages 54`...68 of Number 101
of the Quarterly Review, published in March, 183%. Mr Lockhart
applied on Jan. 24th for the article; saying he did not know to
whom to turn unless to Mr Whewell, for Herschel was away and

"Brewster engaged to do the thing in the Edinburg ." On
Feb. 1st Mr Lockhart returned thanks for the " spirited little paper."

     The review as Lockhart had prescribed, "a light-ish paper."
             is,
                        is
Mrs Somerville's book highly commended, and several extracts

are given. Perhaps too much stress laid on the fact, whichis  is
                                              is                  a
brought prominently forward, that such a work had been written          a is

by a woman. A few sentences may be quoted relating to this

subject, which at the present time much discussed.

     "Notwithstanding all the dreams of theorists, there      sex
                                                  '

in minds."

"He [that    is,  man] learns to talk of matters of speculation

without clear notions; to combine one phrase with another at

venture; to deal in generalities; to guess at relations and bear

ings; to try to steer himself by antitheses and assumed maxims.

Women never do this: what they understand, they understand

clearly: what they see at all, they see in sunshine. It may be,

that in many or most cases, this brightness belongs to a narrow

Goshen; that the heart stronger than the head; that the powers

of thought are less developed than the instincts of action. It
is
                      is

                           it

                                      is
certainly to be hoped that                so."

STUDY or MATHEMATICS.                                 93

     The article contains two specimens of verse "from the mint of
Cambridge" respecting Mrs Somerville. The first is by Mr

. Whewell himself, and is reproduced in his Sunday Thoughts and

other Verses, 1847.

    In the year 1835 Mr Whewell attended the meeting of the

British Association at Dublin in August, and was one of the

Vice-Presidents. After the meeting he gave some attention to
Irish architecture, and became acquainted with Mr Petrie, from

whom he derived information about the famous round towers of

Ireland. Shortly afterwards he made a tour in North Wales.
In December he paid a visit to Professor Sedgwick at Norwich.

From letters addressed to Mr Whewell in 1835 it appears that

he took much interest in the experiments made by Mr Scott

Russell on Waves and the Resistance of Fluids.        of Trinity

   I pass to the publications of the year.

    A Sermon was preached before the Corporation

House : this will be noticed with the other sermons.

A Report on the Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Mag

netism, and Heat was communicated to the British Association at

the Dublin meeting: this will be noticed with the other scientific

memoirs. Mr Whewell's Report may have led to his acquaint

ance with the late Sir W. Snow Harris, from whom he received
various long letters on Electricity.

    A preface contributed to Mackintosh's Dissertation on the

Progress of Ethical Philosophy belongs to about this time; it
will be noticed with the other contributions to Moral Science.

Mr Whewell's attention seems to have been drawn to the subject

mainly by the circumstance of having to lecture his College stu

dents on Butler's Sermons.

    In this year Mr Whewell published Thoughts on the Study of
Mathematics as a part of a Liberal Education; it is an octavo

pamphlet of 46 pages, including the title-leaf. About five pages

are devoted to upholding the educational superiority of mathe-'

matics over logic, and the remainder to the discussion of some

faults in the manner of teaching mathematics, by which the

benefit of these studies may be seriously diminished. These faults

are thus stated on page 8 :

94 sm w. HAMILTON.

   I" would reply, then,--that if mathematics be taught in such       .
                                                                      -
a manner that its foundations appear to be laid in arbitrary
definitions without any corresponding act of the mind ;--or if its

first principles be represented as borrowed from experience, in

such a manner that the whole science is empirical only ;---or if it

be held forth as the highest perfection of the science to reduce our

knowledge to extremely general propositions and processes, in

Iwhich all particular cases are included ;--so studied, it may,

conceive, unfit the mind for dealing with other kinds of truth."

     The opinions thus stated are enforced with ability and mode
ration; they were permanently held by the writer, and reappear in

substance in his Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences. The pam-
phlet is reprinted in the work On the Principles of English Uni
versity Education, 1837, in which it occupies pages 143.181.

   I may observe that, on page 30 of his pamphlet, Mr Whewell

justly censured a certain faulty definition of a fluid. Ivory, whose

conscience perhaps reproached him for his errors in hydrostatics,

suspected some reference to his peculiar notions, and wrote to

Mr Whewell on the subject. Ivory says: "Is the citation from
any of my Papers? if so, have the goodness to specify the pas

sage."

     Mr Whewell's pamphlet was placed at the head of an article
in Number 126 of the Edinburgh Review, published in 1836; the
article was written by Sir W. Hamilton, and has become notorious

as a wild and indiscriminate attack on mathematics by a person

very slightly acquainted with them.
     Mr Whewell replied to the Review in a letter dated Jan. 23,

1836; this letter was reproduced in pages 183...186 of the Prin

ciples of English University Education, and also in the Edinburgh
Review, Number 127. The letter points out the mistake of the
reviewer in representing a page or two of the Thoughts as con
taining all that could be said in favour of mathematics by an able
advocate, whereas in fact the object of the pamphlet was quite

different. A natural and modest wish is expressed for the titles

of some works on Practical Logic and Philosophy, which the re
 viewer would recommend for their educational efficiency as rivals
to the well-known mathematical treatises. The reviewer however,

RAILWAY conrnsr.  95

in a brief reply in Number 127 of the Edinburgh Review, declined

to accede to what he called a "misplaced request."

    A letter from a friend in Edinburgh addressed to Mr Whewell

just before the publication of the notorious article is very mode

Irate and reasonable in tone. "You will not be surprised, dare

say, to hear, that in this place, once celebrated for metaphysical
and all intellectual studies, though it has unfortunately for some

time ceased to be so, there are still a few who cling to those pur

suits, and who do not view with much favour any attempts to give

to mathematics a preference over them, as a means of developing
and cultivating the mental powers. We allow to mathematics as a

Science every perfection which you can claim for it; but we are
very far from thinking that, as a study, it affords any thing like the

best schooling for powers which must so much more largely and

necessarily be employed in the field of contingent enquiry. In
short, my dear Sir, we differ widely from you; and you will see

how widely in an article of the Number of the Edinburgh Review
to be published in a few days....You will, perhaps, revise your
opinions, and either admit that we are right, or shew that we are

greatly wrong."

     In the year 1836 Mr Whewell's attention was drawn to a
railway dispute, by Mr Barlow, Mr Drinkwater, and Mr Pringle; and
he was requested to give evidence about it before a Parliamentary

Committee. The question seems to have been respecting the
relative advantages, for the South-Eastern Railway, of a shorter

line with steep inclines, and of a longer line with gentle inclines.
The answers of Mr Whewell to his correspondents have not been
recovered; but it is obvious from their letters that he asked for

experiments and observations on the subject, few of which had

been made up to that time.

    In August Mr Whewell attended the meeting of the British

Association at Bristol.

    In November Mr Whewell was a candidate for the Lowndean

Professorship of Astronomy and Geometry, which became vacant
by the death of Professor Lax; Mr Peacock obtained the ap

pointment.

    In the year 1836 Mr Whewell vindicated the character of

96 NEWTON AND FLAMSTEED.

Newton against some attacks relating to his conduct towards

FFlamsteed. A large quarto volume entitled An Account of the

Rev. John lamsteed, the first Astronomer Royal... was printed by
order of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty in 1835,

under the editorship of Francis Baily. This contained Flam

steed's own version of his quarrel with Newton; and an article

in the Quarterly Review strongly maintained Flamsteed's part.

Mr Whewell published a pamphlet on the subject. The first

Fedition is entitled Newton and lamsteed. Remarks on an

Article in Number O'IX. of the Quarterly Review. ~In the second

edition the Title has the following additional words: To which

are added two Letters occasioned by a note in Number OX. of the
Review. The pamphlet is in octavo; the first edition consists of

19 pages, and the second of 32.
     Mr \Vhewell conduct-s his case with skill and moderation;

he shews that the Quarterly Reviewer was not familiar with the

scientific history of the period, and that he accepted Flamsteed's

statements and opinions without exercising due caution in check--

ing the evidence furnished by a witness in his own behalf.

     An article on the subject of Newton and Flamsteed appeared
also in the Edinburgh Review; Mr Whewell briefly alludes to it

in connexion with one element of the controversy, saying, "The

Edinburgh Reviewer, wiser than his brother, has pointed out
this." Professor Rigaud, in a letter to Mr Whewell, ascribed
the article in the Edinburgh Review to Mr Galloway.

Mr Whewell's pamphlet was favourably noticed in the Philoso

phical lilagazine for February 1836.
"IMr Whewell says in a letter to Mr Jones,
                                              send you a few
Icopies of a pamphlet which scribbled off at 'a sitting after
Ireading Barrow's article in the Quarterly."
                                              have no doubt that

this refers to the present matter, though the year is not recorded    .
in the original letter, and Dr Whewell himself, when` his letters to
Mr Jones came again into his hands at a later period, put the date
1826 on it with a note of interrogation.

    The most important circumstance in the year 1837 is the pub

Ilication of the History of the Inductive Sciences; of this work

shall speak in the next chapter, and also of two letters connected

                PRESIDENT OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.                                            97

a           with one to the Editor of the Edinburgh Review, and one to theI
         it,
            Editor of the llledical Gazette; proceed now to the other inciit

            dents of the year.                                             a
                 Mr Whewell became President of the Geological Society in
                                                                              ;
            February; this office was tenable for two years, and one of the most

            responsible functions attached to always was the recommenda
            tion of a suitable person as successor. Mr Whewell had the
            honour of following Mr Lyell, and of being strongly urged, both by
            him and by Professor Sedgwick, to accept the office.

                 The Marquis of Northampton edited for benevolent purpose
               volume called the Tribute, consisting of poetical contributions
            from various writers; Mr'Whewell was requested to assist by Mr
            T. Spring Rice, afterwards Lord Monteagle, and accordingly he
            sent a piece entitled The Spinning Maiden's Cross this be after

            wards reprinted in his Verse Translations. Some notice of the
            Tribute will be found in the Edinburgh Review of October, 1837.

                In the summer Mr Whewell made a tour in France, Germany,
            and Holland. In September he attended the meeting of the

            British Association at Liverpool, and was one of the Vice-Presidents.

                In November Mr Whewell preached before the University four

            Sermons on the Foundation of lilorals these were published, and
            will be noticed with the other contributions to Moral Science.
                                                ;
                                                         it
                                                                is

                                                                      of
            I  will now advert to the Letter to Charles Babbage, Esq.,

Lucasian Professor lilathematics in the University Cambridge_
                is
This letter                of

                                             7
                printed on small pages;                                       dated Athenwum,

May 30, 1837. A few words from the beginning shew the occasion

of the letter.            `                                                        have

   "I have just read your Ninth Bridgewater Treatise'...                         aI

still been unable to get rid of the persuasion, that displeasure

at a sentence or two in my Bridgewater Treatise, had                                            con

siderable influence upon you, both as to the design and the

execution of your book."

            Mr Babbage thought that Mr Whewell had given support to

the prejudice "that the pursuits of science are unfavourable to

religion." The Chapter VI. of Book III., which entitled On
                                                                              is
                                                                                             7
Deductive Habits, was probably the part of the Bridgewater Trea

tise which appeared to Mr Babbage open to objection. In defending

            w.

98 ENGLISH UNIVERSITY EDUCATION.

himSelf Mr Whewell writes in a very friendly manner, and expresses
his satisfaction at having Mr Babbage for a volunteer fellow

labourer. The letter concludes thus: "There have been in the

recent literature of our country, many proofs how generally accept

able the subject is; but none in which the sympathy of others

with regard to it has given me more pleasure, and none in which

it is treated in a more original manner."
    In the year 1837 Mr Whewell published a work On the Prin

ciples of English University Education. This is on small octavo,
and contains besides the Title and Contents 186 pages, of which

142 are new; the remainder consists of a reprint of the Thoughts

Ion the Study of .Mathematics, and the Letter to the Editor of the

Edinburgh Review: to these have already alluded. The work is

divided into three Chapters, namely; of the Subjects of University

Teaching, of Direct and Indirect Teaching, and of Discipline.

     The first Chapter is a vindication of the paramount claims of
classics and mathematics as educational instruments; it in my
                                                            is is,
opinion, most interesting and valuable. The author                  here

perhaps somewhat of an advocate, while in his later writings he

discharges the office of a judge; and he seems subsequently to

have attached a higher value to the modern studies than in the

present volume: but on the whole he adhered firmly to the edu

cational creed here enunciated.

In the second Chapter, among other things, he treats on the

subject of private tutors; he always had great objection to the
                                  I
                                                         a
unofficial teaching furnished by this class of persons, so numerous

and so popular at Cambridge.      am surprised that in his remarks

he never once adverts to the great fact that on the whole the pri

vate tutors gain their position by their ability solely. The Colleges

and the University offer very few permanent positions for teachers  ;

and not extraordinary that those who devote themselves to
I
        it
                is
                     it

                              is
the training of private pupils as profession should be superior to
                                  a

the transitory and inexperienced holders of the official lectureships.

do not assert that the private tutors are superior in ability and

attainments to the professors and others who occupy the posts of

dignity; but                      not too much to say that for the union of know

ledge, zeal, and didactic skill they are conspicuously eminent.

                        MERITS or EUCLID.                        99

    In the third Chapter, among other things, Mr Whewell alludes

    to the subject of compulsory attendance at College Chapels. He

    holds the same views as he did in 1834! on the occasion of the con

    troversy between himself and Mr Thirlwall ; and even those who

    may hesitate as to the best course in this difficult question will

    allow that the current practice is defended in an earnest and yet

    conciliatory manner. There  however, no allusion to some de
                                is,
    fects which many excellent men have admitted to exist in these
                                  is it of I
    services; such as the monotony which accompanies the incessant

    repetition of the same devotional language, and the undue promi

    nence of the Apocrypha in the course of the daily lessons: the

    latter defect has been remedied in more recent times.

Ia    will quote the decided opinion expressed by Mr Whewell on
   I
       point which has been lately much discussed: he says on his
    page 46: "Euclid has never been superseded, and never will be

                                                                 `
    so without great detriment to education."

        Again, he says on his page 134:: "As have already said,
      should be sorry to see Euclid losehis ancient place, or even his
                                              ;
ancient form, in our system."   _
                                                I
    A second edition of the work appeared in 1838 with the fol
                                                              a
lowing notice: " In this Edition, have added few Reflexions

tending to illustrate further the nature of the intellectual training

which the study of Mathematics supplies and the mode in which

    must be conducted, after the first stage, in order to answer its
it
          it

                 is
purpose. W. W." The part thus added consists of about eight

pages;               a reprint of the first half of the preface to the mathe

matical work entitled The Doctrine Limits.

     An eminent friend of Mr Whewell expressed a high opinion

of the work on English University Education. "It has interested

me so deeply that have finished within the second day, after
                     I

receiving it. The whole argument strong, or would say, con
                                              I

vincing--greatly needed moreover, at this particular season, when

we are surrOunded by rash novelties in speculation. You have,

without concession, made a substantial peace with the mathema-'

ticians, and thoroughly thrown on his back my old acquaintance

Hamilton the Edinburgh Reviewer...."

      CHAPTER VIII.

HISTORY OF THE INDUCTIVE SCIENCES.

THE work on which the reputation of Dr Whewell is perhaps

Igenerally supposed to rest is his History of the Inductive Sciences,
from the earliest to the present time.  shall probably find myself
I Iin a very small minority when say that prefer the later work

on the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences to the earlier work on
the History. Either opinion is consistent with that held by many

persons that the Essay on the Plurality of the Worlds is the
cleverest of all the author's numerous writings; but from the

nature of the subject that essay does not present the remarkable

combination of wide learning with great ability, which distin

guishes the two works on Inductive Science, and in reading it we

rather admire the skill of an advocate than bow to the decisions

of a judge. It is conceivable that Dr Whewell himself may have

considered his contributions to Moral Philosophy as the most
valuable of his publications.

The first edition of the History appeared in 1837 in three

octavo volumes, containing altogether about 1660 pages. The

second edition, which is stated to be revised and continued, ap

peared in 1847, in three octavo volumes, containing altogether

about 1830 pages. The third edition, which is stated to be with

additions, appeared in 1857 in three small octavo volumes: these

additions were also issued in the octavo size for the convenience of

possessors of the second edition. Although in the second edition,
and to a further extent in the third, we have some account of the

more recent investigations, yet the words in the title-page, to the

present time, became less applicable than they originally were.
This arose, partly from the rapidity with which science advanced,

         REVIEW BY sm D. BREWSTER.        101

and partly from the fact that the author had turned aside to

other studies, and no longer endeavoured to keep himself on a

level with the current researches.

There is something striking about the date of publication

taken in connexion with the following passage written so many
J.years previously: in a letter from
                                          C. Hare to Mr Whewell,

dated Dec. 21st, 1819, after referring to the treatise on Mechanics
which had just appeared, he says "Do you intend to keep your
history of the science for the next volume, or to publish it sepa
rately, or to keep it back to form a part of the history of mathe

matics from the creation of the world down to the year of the
Lord 1836?"

The History is dedicated to Sir John Herschel, then at the

Cape of Good Hope, engaged in astronomical labours. The dedi
cation issues from 5, Hyde Park Street; Mr Hare objected to the

honour thus transferred to a private residence which he thought
belonged rightly to Trinity College: Mr Whewell explained the

reason to be the pleasant recollections which the favoured. place

would suggest to Herschel;  for it was the residence of their
common friend, Jones.                                                      1

The first edition of the History was reviewed in the Edinburgh

Review for October, 1837, somewhat unfavourably. The article

was written by Brewster, and his complaint seems to have been

chiefly that Optics and Scotchmen were inadequately appre

ciated. Mr Whewell replied in a printed letter of four octavo
Ipages:
         shall return to this hereafter.

In the Edinburgh Review for July, 1838, there is an Article on

the first two volumes of Comte's Cours de Philosophie Positive; it is

undoubtedly by Brewster. The reviewer makes an opportunity for
speaking unfavourany of Mr Whewell's History: it is curious that

he seems. to approve of the Nebular Theory, which he calls
Laplace's Cosmogony. Mr Whewell refers to this Article in

the preface to the first edition of his Philosophy of the Inductive

Sciences.

     An Article appeared in the United Service Magazine in 1847,
and was-reprinted under the title of Strictures on Dr Whewell's

History of the Inductive Sciences: but the word Strictures is inap

102 REVIEW BY srn J. HERSCHEL.

propriate, for the Article is merely an account of the work with

very few criticisms.

The third edition of the History was noticed by Professor

Forbes in Fraser's Magazine, for March, 1858, in an article on the

History of Science and some of its lessons.

   J.The History and the Philosophy were reviewed by Sir

Herschel in the Quarterly Review for June, 1841. The Article--

one of the most elaborate of the author's productions--is reprinted

in his Essays from the Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews, 1857,

and occupies more than 100 pages of the volume. Sir J. Herschel

awards high praise to the two works which he reviews, tho'ugh he

differs widely from the philosophical doctrines maintained in

them. In a note to this Article Sir J. Herschel described a

work by Dr Holland as "replete with profound philosophy," and
Dr Holland in a letter to Mr Whewell said " no commendation of

my own volume has so much pleased me as that which is con
Itained in a note to this Article."
                                     may observe that Sir H.

Holland notices Dr Whewell on page 240 of his Recollections of
Past Life. He thinks that the two works--the History and the
Philosophy--might better have been embodied into one. In fact

it is obvious that in the History there is much which is not narra

tive; for example, Book XVIII., is principally theory and specula

tion.

The History and the Philosophy are placed at the head of an

Article in the Quarterly Review, Oct. 1861 ; but merely as a text.

The Article does not review the books, but treats on the supposed

immutability of the Laws of Nature. Dr Whewell himself thought

this Article wanted point and compression.

    The History was reprinted at New York. It was translated

into German by the eminent astronomer Littrow; and to this

circumstance Mr \Vhewell refers with proper satisfaction in the

preface to the first edition of the Philosophy. An Italian transla~

tion was projected by Bishop De Luca, now a Cardinal, who had

given an analysis of some of the Bridgewater Treatises in an
Italian Journal; but it does not seem to have been published.

Some intention was formed at one time of executing a Russian

translation, by Professor Braschman, of Moscow.

MERITS or THE HISTORY.                                                                        108

     The special characteristic of the History of the Inductive
Sciences is the distribution of the course into various decisive

Epochs, each Epoch having its Prelude and its Sequel: this the

author claims as a novelty, and justly regards as of great value.

The prominent parts of each science are well selected, and the

whole is written with a vigour of language and a felicity of illus

tration rare in the treatment of such abstruse subjects. Thus the

popularity which the work obtained was well deserved.

     My own tastes having led me to explore some of the paths of

Iscientific history, may perhaps be allowed to offer a few remarks

which have occurred to me in the careful perusal of Mr Whewell's

  work. The general accuracy and fidelity of the first edition are
' beyond question: perhaps only those who have endeavoured to

throw into a continuous narrative the vast mass of details in

volved in any one line of historical study, are conscious how easy
it to fall into error; and such persons will readily admit the
skill with which Mr Whewell executed the laborious task he
is_

  it
                         it

                                     it if

                                                       of

                                                                            a
                                                                                           a
undertook. But while awarding this testimony to the first edi

tion, appears to me that the second and the third editions do
not exhibit the full amount of improvement which might have

been anticipated. The author himself had wandered from science

to moral philosophy; and even he had not thus strayed, he

might with Gibbon have "preferred the pleasures of composition

and study to the minute diligence  revising former publi

cation." But still his position as the Master of the first College

in England must have rendered easy for him to find among the

younger persons with whom he came into contact, some who

would have regarded as an honour and pleasure to undertake

the examination of selected portions of the work. Mr Whewell

availed himself largely of the criticisms of his friends on his proof

sheets while they were passing through the press; but he does

not appear to have systematically employed this method of im

provement for his successive reprints, although as have said his
is

                          a

                                 I
official station afforded him many opportunities for obtaining such

revision: moreover, a competent reader can render much more

effective assistance when he leisurely studies the whole work,

than when he limited to rapid perusal of proofs for which

104 CORRECTIONS OF THE HISTORY.

the printer is waiting. It is true that in addition to his other

literary and scientific occupations, the official duties of Dr Whewell
concurred in absorbing his time; but these latter were not con
tinuous. The University year consists practically of three terms
of seven weeks each, thus leaving more than half the civil year

available after satisfying all the claims of academical position.

   I will mention a few examples as illustrations of the improve

ments which might have been effected in the later editions: in
some of these, although it would be harsh to say there is absolute

error, yet there is a tendency to produce an incorrect or imperfect

impression: perhaps these may be partially excused on the ground

of the necessity of compression in the prosecution of an extensive
Iplan.
        cite from the pages of the last edition of the History.

The title of Book II. is History of the Physical Sciences in

Ancient Greece; but the writers to whom the Book chiefly relates
are Euclid and Archimedes, who did not live in Greece.

    In Vol. I. page 212 the superiority of Greek science to Arabian

is attributed to the freedom of political institutions, and the national
education, which "fitted the Greeks to be disciples of Plato and
Hipparchus." But to this explanation there is the obvious reply

that Plato lived at the close of Greek freedom, and Hipparchus

long after its extinction; so that at most we can only regard
freedom as a seed which yields fruit by the process of its own

decay.  ,

In Vol. I. pages 175, 258, 334 much prominence is given to a

supposed Arabian discovery in the Lunar Theory; but before the

second edition of the History appeared this had been contested by

Biot, and some allusion to his adverse criticism ought to have found

a place. Bertrand has recently followed on the same side as Biot.

The supposed Arabian discovery is mentioned also without any

hesitation in the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences; .first edition

Vol. II. page 387, second edition Vol. II. page 225, Philosophy of

Discovery, pages 42 and 123.

    In Vol. II. page 172 we read "In 1827, Professor Airy compared

Delambre's tables with 2000 Greenwich observations, made with

the new transit instrument at Cambridge..." In all the editions
we have the number 2000, whereas it ought to be about 1200. The

connncrrons OF THE nrsronv.  105

curious blunder about Greenwich observations made at Cambridge
is peculiar to the third edition.

    In Vol. II. page 186 something is said to have taken place
before "the return of the academiciansz" but it really was after the

return of those who went to Lapland, although before the return
of those who went to Peru.

     In Vol. II. page 190 an Essay on the Tides is attributed to

D'Alembert instead of Maclaurin.

     In Vol. II. page 198 instead of John Cassini we must read

James Cassini.

     In Vol. II. page 220 it is said that Lacaille was "four years at

the Cape of Good Hope." Lacaille was indeed absent from France

for nearly four years, but he did not spend quite two years at the
Cape of Good Hope.

     In Vol. II. page 362 the description of conical refraction omits

half of the phenomena.

     In Vol. III. pages 26 and 45 allusion is made to a memoir by
Biot; the correct date 1801 is given in the former place, but

1811 in the latter: also in the note to the latter place for LI.
read III.

     Professor Sedgwick, in an amusing letter to Dr Whewell, ob

Ijected to the frequent recurrence of the word feature in one of his

scientific works: for my part confess that the word which dis_
tresses me most is already, which is perpetually occurring in such
phrases as " we have already seen." The exact place ought always

to be indicated; even if we excuse an author for omitting such

references in the excitement of a first edition, there can be no

justification for the neglecting to insert them in the calm republi

cation of a second or third edition. In all cases it is troublesome,
in many it is very difficult, to ascertain the precise passage to
which the already is intended to carry us back. For an example

I may take the statement on Vol. II. page 145: "As we have already

seen, even before they [Newton's discoveries] were published, they
were proclaimed by Halley to be something of transcendent value."

The reference may be to page 115, but this does not seem very

obvious.

     There are also occasionally vague allusions to what may or will

 106 CRITICS, COMMENTATORS, AND EDITORS?

be done in the sequel; these should all have been rendered precise
in the second edition.

     In the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences the word elsewhere

is often introduced, and then both the History and the Philosophy
may have to be searched to discover the unknown place.

     In Dr Whewell's later writings the tendency to allude to things

Iwhich he had already noticed naturally increased: we often have

the phrase as have said when the real fact is that something of a
similar kind may have been said, but that the similarity is rather
faint.

   I am a little surprised at the strong terms in which Mr Whewell

condemns the labours of critics, commentators, and editors ; see the
History Vol. I. pages 184 and 203. For he frequently undertook
such labours himself and performed them with great success:
as examples we may take his prefaoes to Mackintosh, Butler,
Sanderson, Grotius and Barrow, and his volumes on the History of

IllIoral Philosophy and on the Philosophy of Discovery.

     But leaving these matters of detail. may proceed to a few
remarks of a more general character.

     Mr Whewell is perhaps open to the charge, which so frequently
applies to authors of works ion science, that he did not form, or at
least did not always maintain, a steady conception of the class of
readers Whom he wished to address. From the circumstance that
no mathematical formulae occur in a work of which a large portion
is devoted to mixed mathematics, it might be supposed that the
History is designed as a popular manual for the general reader;
but it is on the whole far too difficult for the amount of knowledge
and resolution which such a reader may safely be held to possess.
On the other hand the references to the original authorities are
not sufficiently numerous and precise to render the work adequate
to the wants of the systematic student of science. Thus on the
whole it seems that the position which it occupies is an unfavour
able border land, which might well have been exchanged for one
entirely within or. entirely without the domain of exact knowledge.
Perhaps also the plan might have been contracted with advantage,
though in this case different readers would scarcely agree as to the
portions which it ,Would be desirable to omit: for my own part

runocrron AND DEDUCTION.  107

I should be glad to see the Physiology and Comparative Anatomy

withdrawn, and the space thus gained divided among the other

subjects.

     The work is called a History of the Inductive Sciences; and
the writer here and in his other writings attaches supreme im
portance to Induction: he contrasts this not unfrequently with
Deduction to the manifest disparagement of the latter. Thus in
Book III. Chapter 1. Section 8 he remarks that man is prone to
become a deductive reasoner; and he so frequently speaks of
ascending by induction and descending by deduction, that he

seems to allow metaphorical language to impose upon his sagacious
intellect, and to adopt the notion that induction involves some
thing which elevates and ennobles, while deduction is grovelling

and servile. In the Philosophy 2nd edition Vol. II. page 92 we

find Induction bounding upwards, while Deduction has to move

steadily and methodically downwards. It would seem, to use the

language of the strongest and the fiercest spirit,

                            That in our proper motion we ascend
                         Up to our native seat: Descent and fall
                            To us is adverse.

Now it has been remarked by J. S. Mill that "A revolution is

peaceably and progressively effecting itself in philosophy, the
reverse of that to which Bacon has attached his name. That great
man changed the method of the sciences from deductive to ex
perimental, and it is now rapidly reverting from experimental to
deductive." Be this as it may with philosophy in general, it may
well be asserted that the science which occupies the most pro
minent place in Mr Whewell's History, and probably in the whole

range of human culture, is almost independent of that induction to
which he attaches a preeminent value. The triumphs of Astro

nomy are essentially triumphs of deduction: Newton and Laplace
are far removed from any Baconian influence. Bacon himself was

behind his age with respect'to this great science; for he does not
                                                                                                                                                        I

appear to have become a Copernican.

   I may illustrate this matter by some particulars.

    Take for instance Book III. Chapter III. which is entitled The

Inductive Epoch of Hipparchus. The first Section of the Chapter

108 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION.

is on the Establishment of the Theory of Epicycles and Eccentrics.
We are told as to this Theory that Hipparchus "not only guessed

that it might, but shewed that it must, account for the phenomena."

Now, as we learn from the same page, the guess had already been

made by Plato, and the guess  is       as Mr \Vhewell maintains, the

main element of scientific induction; so that in the present case theis,

induction had been effected before the inductive epoch: see Philo

       the Inductive Sciences, Book XI. Chapter V. Section
sophy  0f                                          it

But without laying undue stress on the word guessa     is
                                                                              2.
                                                          plain from

the account given by Mr Whewell that the merit of Hipparchus

consisted in deductive process by which he established the

agreement of facts with an hypothesis already current.

Again Book V. Chapter II. called the Induction Copernicus.
                                                   of

But the text distinctly contradicts the title, by shewing that

Copernicus performed no feat of induction; he obtained his theory

as he says from the ancient authors, and then shewed deductively

that explained the phenomena.
it                                                          .

The same considerations apply with special force to what

Dr Whewell calls the Inductive Epoch of Newton, and the great
Newtonian Induction of Universal Gravitation; History Vol. II.

page 136. The word Induction here used; and in the Philosophy
                              of is
we have an Inductive Table           Astronomy suggesting successive

ascents until we arrive at the Theory of Universal Gravitation.

But the facts seem to be quite otherwise. The fame of Newton as

an astronomer reposes for ever on the Principia--the greatest work

known in the history of science--and this  is    magnificent chain of
                                              a

deductions almost as strictly such as Euclid's Geometry.

The terms induction and inductive have been used in modern

times with some fluctuations of meaning, and not unfrequently

without any precise meaning at all; so that panegyric and censure,

when very undiscriminating, are expressed by some vague appeal

to the "soundest principles of the inductive philosophy:" in fact the

words are used as loosely as logical and illogical. See De Morgan's

Diferential and Integral Calculus, page 12. Hence some interest
attaches to the sense in which they are understood by writer
                                                 I
who uses them so frequently as Mr Whewell does.
                                                           ;

                                                              a
                                                                          is
                                                        by no means

object to his exaltation of induction above deduction for that

          INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION.                    109

a matter of scientific taste as to which every person may please

Ihimself. Nor do deny that such a man as Newton possessed
Ihigh inductive powers; for yield to no one in my admiration of
INewton. But maintain that on Mr Whewell's own definition of

induction and deduction it is the latter which is almost exclusively

predominant in the fortunes of astronomy. The idea of an at--

tractive force varying inversely as the square of the distance was

not peculiarly Newton's guess; it was floating in the scientific

atmosphere of the period, but Newton alone had the power of

developing the idea in a series of transcendent mathematical in

vestigations. See the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, Vol. I.
page 255, and Vol. II. page 387.
                                                 .

One very just reason why the deductive labour of such men

as Newton and Laplace is highly esteemed is that we can feel sure

to whom it is due. It would be hard to apportion rightly the

merit of the inductive guess about attraction among Newton's

predecessors and contemporaries ; while the glory of the deductive

demonstrations of the Principia is all his own.

We must remember too, when we are appreciating the relative

claims 'of induction and deduction, we must not compare some

second rate performer of the latter with some first rate adherent of

the former; we must take men of unquestioned eminence from

each school. Or we may compare the deductive work of one man,

say Newton, with his inductive guesses.
     Mr Whewell maintains in a much later work his own opinions

Iabout induction and deduction against those of J. S. Mill; but do
Inot find any reason for modifying the remarks which have made:

Isee the Philosophy of Discovery, pages 283 and 284.
The fact  believe is that Mr Whewell first contemplated

merely a History of Astronomy, or of Mechanics, and subse

quently enlarged his plan to'include what he considered the

principal Inductive Sciences. But the unity which he supposed

his work to retain when thus expanded seems more imaginary

than real; it is not difficult to perceive the dissimilarity of

the substances thus ideally combined--the head of gold, and

the feet of clay.
     The advantages which Mr Whewell enjoyed for the prepara

1 10                    DR YOUNG.

tion of his work were very great in two respects: in the first

place his habits of intimacy with so many of the scientific leaders

of the day, gave him easy access to the earliest and best informa

tion; and in the second place he was able to trace the course of

some streams of knowledge almost from their sources. For example,

geology, at least in any'systematic form, may be said to have

commenced within his recollection; and so also may the undula
Itory theory of light.
                        ventured once in conversation with him

to remark that Humboldt especially, and himself in great mea--

sure, had been in more favourable circumstances than any person

could hope to be in future, now that the sciences had so vastly

increased; and to this he assented. On the same occasion

I endeavoured to persuade him that he had estimated the late

Dr Young too highly; I maintained that if the conception of

the undulatory theory was considered the main point, then

Huygens was preeminent; and if the development of the con

ception was the meritorious labour, then Fresnel claimed the

praise. He was much more tolerant of the opinion thus held in

opposition to that of his History than might have been expected,

and seemed willing to admit on his own principles that more

honour should have been ascribed to Huygens.

    In fact, in science he alone is the true discoverer who reveals,

not in dim oracles which enthusiastic votaries may subsequently

interpret into truth, but in' clear characters which contemporaries,

even though hostile, cannot misunderstand or misrepresent.

Dr Young was so obscure as to be scarcely intelligible; and both

in science and philology he maintained, with great positiveness,

opinions which were afterwards shewn to be wrong. A sentence

in a letter addressed to Mr Whewell, in 1826, by one of the

most distinguished of his scientific contemporaries will confirm
"Ithe opinion expressed as to Dr Young's obscurity:
                                                     am glad
Ithat you could not comprehend Young's reasoning, as found

it utterly beyond me."

   I do not think that the following sentence relative to

Dr Young which we find in the History, Vol. 11., page 353, gives a

correct notion of the matter in question: "his office of the

Superintendent of the Nautical Alma-nae subjected him to much

COMPARISON \VITH OTHER HISTORIES.  111

minute labour, and many petulant attacks of pamphleteers."
Another mode of statement might be given thus: Dr Young
received the salary of £500 a year for editing the Nautical
Almanac; he had no special qualifications for the duty, and obsti--
nately resisted the requests for improvements urged by men, like
Baily and Herschel, of the highest eminence in astronomy.

     The note books of Mr Whewell attest the indefatigable

labour with which he collected the materials for his History;

his correspondence with his scientific friends affords additional

evidence on the point, and shews that they did justice to the
ability and integrity manifested in his work. For an illustration

I may mention one point as to which his first judgment was

challenged, namely, the share of merit due to Sir Charles Bell

and some other persons, relative to a discovery in Physiology:

the appeals made to him to reconsider the matter were earnest

and respectful, shewing the high opinion which the claimants

entertained of his fairness and skill. In consequence of a renewed

Istudy he made some changes in his original award : shall recur

 to this point.
      The History may rank, to say the least, on an equality with

 others of a similar kind in our language, such as the Dissertations

 of Playfair, Leslie, and Forbes, which are attached to the Ency
 clopcedia Britannica; and it has the additional advantage of
 being readily accessible instead of being lost in a bulky compila
 tion. When an author takes so wide a range there must neces
 sarily be parts which he handles with more vigour than the
 rest; it seems to me that the subject of Mineralogy, which Mr

 Whewell had professionally studied, is treated with special ability.
 The progress of Astronomy is also very well narrated; but in
 this department the rivalry is strong, and it is difficult for a
 casual volunteer to compete with those who are almost absorbed
 in this attractive subject. Thus the sketches traced by Mr

 Whewell, though clear and impressive, are perhaps scarcely equal
 in interest and decision to such masterpieces as the article by

 Dr Bowditch in'the North American Review for April, 1825, and

 the Report by the present Astronomer Royal in the first volume
 published by the British Association.

112 OPINION OF SIR c. LYELL.

    It is no slight testimony to the merit of the History that it
rendered important assistance to J. S. Mill in the construction of

portions of his Logic; the acknowledgment is made in the preface
to his work, and it was emphatically repeated by Mr Mill in con

versation with his friends.

     We ought not to pass quite unnoticed the fragments of verse

which occur in the volumes. Sir J. Herschel says towards the

end of his review, "Among our author's various and brilliant

accomplishments not one of the least remarkable is his poetical

talent, of which we have specimens in the mottoes prefixed to the

several books of his `History', and in the following perfect little

bijou from Goethe,  ;" and he proceeds to quote the lines which

occur in Vol. III. page 360.

   Sir H. Holland said Ifin 184%, " you translated into English

verse the passage from Pindar standing as motto to your former

work, you ought to be called upon for translation of the Theban

throughout--I looked at it by chance a few days ago, and thought

J.it excellent." Sir Herschel said that he did not see the drift of

the motto from Pindar.

    A few sentences in a letter written to Mr Whewell by Mr

Lyell, afterwards Sir Charles Lyell, not long before the publication

of the History will represent the opinion of many of the most
eminent men of the day on the range of his knowledge. " There

Iwas a time when used to regret that you had not concentrated

your powers on some one department of physical science and
become a giant in that, or at least that you had been satisfied

Iwith some two or three of the Arts and Sciences, but have

for some years come round to the belief that you have been

exercising the calling for which Nature intended you, and for

which she gave you strength and genius, and that you have given

a greater impulse to the advancement of science among us by

being a Universalist, and by mastering so much of Chemistry,

Mineralogy, Astronomy, Geology and other branches, than you

would have done if restricted to the perfecting of any one alone."

   I will notice two of the points in which the Edinburgh Review

differed with the statements in Mr Whewell's History. One was

respecting a story connecting Pythagoras with the origin of Har

ARIsrorLE's PROBLEMS.  1 13

monics, which is given in Book II. Chapter III. ; `the reviewer

fairly complained of some awkwardness of expression, but he
was himself unfortunate in the correction he proposed on his
page 121 with all the emphasis of capital letters: the word
inversely which he inserts ought to be omitted.

     The other point is more curious, and is the origin of a long

Icontroversy, which at the risk of being tedious will unfold

Suppose the light of the sun to be admitted through a very small

aperture, and received on a screen at a considerable distance from
the aperture; then whatever he the shape of the aperture, trian~
gular or quadrangular, or any other, the luminous figure on the

screen is round : there is no doubt whatever as to the truth of this

statement of fact. In the first edition of the History the explana

tion of this fact given by Aristotle was condemned as an applica

tion of inappropriate ideas. In reviewing the History Sir D.

Brewster dissented from this judgment, and ascribed Aristotle's
failure to the circumstance that he did not examine the truth of

his conjecture by new experiments. In Vol. II. page 186 of the
Philosophy, published in 1840, Mr Whewell returned to the point,

and expressly referred to the criticism of the Review, maintaining,
however, his own opinion. Mr Whewell spoke of the hole as
triangular; this does not affect the principle, and in the subse

quent editions of the History the hole is called square.

     In the review of the Philosophy which appeared in the Athe
nwum of Sept. 12, 1840, the matter was noticed ; and Mr Whewell

made the following remarks in his reply to the review:
     "The critic in the Athenaeum thinks that Aristotle made no

error, but will not allow that his success was due to the clearness

or appropriateness of his ideas. As the question is not concerning
the character of Aristotle, but concerning the conditions of dis
covery, _I will not here contest the critic's opinion that Aristotle's
explanation is fundamentally right But, says the critic, it is

taking too short a method of reproving the Stagyrite (Stagirite) to
say that it is demonstrable that the Sun's rays in passing through

a circular hole, must by virtue of their rectilinear movement, form
a circular image. `The Sun's rays,' he adds, `do no such thing.'

IThe Sun's rays, reply, do exactly this thing and no other, put

         w. 8

1 14 BREwsTER's CRITICISM.

ting nearly circular for circular, which has of course been under- .
stood throughout the discussion of this question. And this is

plain, from the critic's own account, notwithstanding his dog

matic denial of it..."
    In the review of the Philosophy in the Edinburgh Review for

Jan. 1842, Sir D. Brewster treated the subject with some detail;
he concluded that Mr Whewell had not read the original ac

count of the phenomenon, and its explanation.          The following

sentences occur:
      " Aristotle uses a quadrangular not a triangular aperture. He

gives no such explanation as that which Mr Whewell ascribes to

him. He never mentions the circular nature of the Sun's light;
and he gives an explanation of the phenomenon which it is mani

fest Mr Whewell could not have given, and which would not have

done discredit to Newton himself."

Then Brewster proceeds to "the Aristotelian problem and its

solution"; and in the course of this he says, "... and hence the_
           is
                                                is,  that a quadrilateral image
geometrical solution of the problem

of the aperture formed at all distances by the solar rays."

    In an Examination Paper for Dr Smith's Prizes at Cambridge
in the early part of 1842, Mr \Vhewell, with obvious allusion

to the article in the Edinburgh Review, proposed the following

question:  _
"It has been asserted that
       is
           a
                                    is

                                                    by
                                                                         a
                                                                                 is
                                     geometry a quadrilateral aper

ture, through which the Sun shines, forms quadrilateral image

at all distances; (rays of light being rectilineal).l                                great the
     "Disprove this. Shew that when the distance

image      circle. What the form of the space illuminated by

the whole disk of the Sun?

"Determine the intensity of the light in each part of the

image."                              ,

In a cpmmunication to the Literary and Philosophical

Society of St Andrew's on March 7th, 1842, Dr Anderson "laid

before the Society an explanation of the nature of solar images,

more especially of such as are formed when the Sun's rays are

admitted through irregular apertures." Dr Anderson quoted and

condemned Aristotle's opinions which he said had "been main

REPLY TO THE EDINBURGH REVIEW.                           115

tained with equal ability and zeal by a writer in the Edinburgh

Review." Dr Anderson sent to Mr Whewell a printed abstract of

the communication, together with a long letter, on March 27, 1842.
The communication and the letter consist of a satisfactory expla
nation of the phenomena by Geometry.

    A printed paper entitled Problem of Solar Images dated St

Leonard's, St Andrew's, April 7, 1842, is obviously due to Sir
D. Brewster; this was sent to Mr Whewell with a note dated

April 19th, 1842. The printed paper refers to the question in the

Smith's Prizes Examination, and states that the opinion con

demned in the question is not the Reviewer's but Aristotle's. A

draft of a reply to Sir D. Brewster by Mr Whewell is preserved

among the papers.

Finally in the second edition of the History Dr Whewell cor

rected his account of Aristotle's attempt at explanation; and now

referred the failure rather to indistinctness than to inappropriate

Iness of ideas. He says, Vol. 1. page 92, " In the first edition had

not accurately represented Aristotle's statement." And in the

Philosophy the passage to which we have referred as occurring in
Vol. II. page 186 was omitted in the second edition.

     Mr Whewell addressed a printed letter to the Editor in reply

to the unfavourable  Article on his History which appeared in the
                     The letter is dated Oct. 28, 1837; it occupies
Edinburgh Review.
four octavo pages.   It begins thus:

     "My dear Sir.    I have taken the liberty of answering the

 Icritique of my History of the Inductive Sciences which you have

' just published, through the same channel which made use of for

a reply to a former article on a much smaller work of mine--

a reply which you were obliging enough to acknowI ledge in a suc

Iceeding number of the Review."                    presume the
     The "much smaller work" here referred to is
IThoughts on the Study of Mathematics; but do not know what
channel is meant through which Mr Whewell replied: perhaps it

might be a Cambridge newspaper, or some magazine.

     The reply to the Article on the History consists in rejecting
almost every correction which the Reviewer proposed. There are
only two exceptions; an admission that perhaps sufficient attention

                                                   8--2

116 REPLY TO THE EDINBURGH REVIEW.

had not been paid to the obligations of Alhazen to Ptolemy with

respect to Optics; and a promise to re--examine the question of the
relative claims of Sir Charles Bell and Mr Mayo with respect to

the discovery of the distinction between nerves of sensation and of

volition.  _

The Reviewer had foolishly expressed a wish to see the name

of Mrs Somerville in the History; the reply is as follows:

"With regard to the excellent and accomplished lady whose

name the critic has thought proper to introduce into his pages...I

Iwill only say, that if, had employed my office of historian for the

purpose of complimenting her with a place among discoverers in

Iastronomy, whatever others might have thought of such a step,

am persuaded that her clear sense and genuine modesty would

have disapproved of the introduction of such a passage into mi y
work."

The Reviewer spoke of the University of Cambridge as "the

cloisters of antiquated institutions,...through whose iron bars the

light of knowledge and liberty has not been able to penetrate."

The reply is as follows:
    "This wretched rant is the echo of a slavish tradition, handed

down from the brighter and prouder days of the Edinburgh

Review. That work, at all periods, has spoken of the English

Universities with equal bigotry and ignorance; and the shallow

and vulgar conceit thus generated, which tarnished some of the

fairest pages of the better scientific critics of its former times, is

well fitted to make it contemptible, now that it has no longer any

such to boast of."

    In the letter Mr Whewell promised to examine again the

question as to the merits of Sir C. Bell, and Mr Mayo. There is

a reprint of the letter, at the end of which is the following notice:

" NB. This letter is arepetition of one written in October last,

with an alteration of the paragraph respecting Sir C. Bell and
Mr Mayo." Accordingly he now gives the results he had obtained

Jby further study of the question; these will be stated immediately.

The reprint is dated an. 3, 1837, which must be a misprint for
Jan. 3, 1838.

Mr Whewell published the results of his further study of the

BELL AND MAYO.                                      117

history of discoveries in the nervous system in the form of a letter
to the editor of the llIedical Gazette, dated Trinity College, Cam_

_ bridge, Dec. 11, 1837: the letter is contained on pages 525...528

   of the number of the Magazine for Dec. 30, 1837. By a curious
   chance it follows an article by Sir D. Brewster.

       In the History Mr Whewell had associated the names of Sir

Charles Bell and Mr Mayo; the Edinburgh Review objected to

this as highly unjust towards Sir C. Bell. Mr Whewell now con

cludes that no injustice had been done by joining the name of
Mr Mayo to that of Sir C. Bell; but this is not to be understood to

imply that they had equal shares in the discovery.  The name of
M. Magendie is also introduced.

After treating of the discovery Dr Whewell proceeds to touch

on the further confirmation of the doctrine by succeeding observers;
and in this he assigns the chief merit to Professor M'uller of Bonn.

He sums up thus: "Looking upon the case as above stated, with

I Ithe best judgment can use, find myself led to the conclusion

that no injustice was committed by joining Mr Mayo's name to

IIthat of Sir Charles Bell, as did; but that, as have already

stated, this is not to be understood to imply that they had equal
If Ishares in the discovery.
                              should have occasion to reproduce
Ithis part of my history, should wish to describe the discovery

as having been 'made by Sir Charles Bell, Mr Mayo and M.

Magendie; the latter two physiologists having corrected and com

pleted the researches of the former;' to which might be added the

above notice of its confirmation." In the second edition of the

History the matter was noticed; but not quite in the manner of

the article in the Medical Gazette; for a fourth person, Mr John

Shaw, is now introduced. The third edition coincides with the

second. Thus there are really three different judgments by Mr

Whewell on the matter. This shews the difficulty of writing the

history even of contemporary science; but perhaps the subject of

physiology might have been omitted with advantage.

    The opinion of the merits of the History of the Inductive
Sciences which was formed at the time of its first appearance

has been confirmed on more recent occasions. Thus Professor

J. D. Forbes, in his Review of the Progress of Mathematical Science,

118 VIGNETTE AND MONO.

1858, referring to the History and the Philosophy of the Inductive

Sciences, says "An English philosopher of wonderful Versatility,
industry, and power has erected a permanent monument to his
reputation in a voluminous work bearing the preceding title."

Professor Owen in his address as President at the meeting

of the British Association at Leeds in 1858 spoke of Dr
Whewell as "the ablest historian of natural science." And at

the meeting of the same body at Belfast in 1874 the President,
Dr Tyndall, in his Address alluded to the History, and especially

commended the remarks regarding the spirit of the Middle Ages.

    In the title-page of the first edition of the History of the

Inductive Sciences the vignette was introduced which the author

afterwards so constantly repeated~a hand is represented trans

mitting a torch to another hand, and a motto of four Greek words

is placed beneath. The words are from Plato who in allusion to

an Athenian ceremony says, Holding torches they will pass them
on one to another. In the coat of arms which Dr Whewell used a

similar emblem is introduced--a hand holding a torch, and the

motto is Lampada tradam. Sir Francis Chantrey drew two

designs for the vignette, which are still preserved; neither of them
quite coincides with the form which was adopted. Dr Whewell,
writing to his friend Mr Jones on August 24:, 1846, drew his atten

tion to the works of Sir Francis Palgrave, and especially to the

book entitled The Merchant and the Friar, furnished, as he says,
" with a vignette                                          "
                   constructed  in  antithesis  to  mine      this vignette
                                                          :

represents apparently a person receiving a torch from heaven. The

first edition of The Merchant and the Friar appeared in 1837;

it alludes to the History of the Inductive Sciences as a "work

combining the imagination of the poet with the precision of the

mathematician, and perhaps, containing more materials for thinking

than any other of the present day."

   IThe proof-sheets of the original edition of the History of the

Inductive Sciences are preserved, and have had the opportunity

of examining them since the present Chapter was sent to the press.

These proof-sheets are very interesting, as they contain corrections

and remarks by the eminent friends of the author, to whom he

submitted them; and they would be consulted with advantage if a

UNCORREOTED ERRORS.                                    1 19

new edition of the work should be hereafter required. It is easy

to conjecture that the author abstained from attending to some of

the criticisms which he received, on account of the delay and the

expense which the requisite changes would have caused in the
publication; but it is strange that in his second and third editions

he did not adopt various suggestions which, even if unimportant

seem obvious improvements. Still more strange is it to find

that decided errors, though corrected on these proof-sheets, survived

Iin the second and the third editions. Thus in the case have

mentioned on page 104: the number 2000 is changed to 1200 by

the astronomer who was most conversant with the matter, and the

mistake is also recorded on a fly-leaf of the volume--and yet the

wrong number is preserved in the subsequent editions. Precisely

311;

           it

                                  a
the same remark applies to the fraction which occurs in note

on page 169 of the second volume of the History; should be 315.

Also on page 156 of the same volume the word comprises should

be compresses. It would be unfair to conclude from such examples

of the vitality of error that Mr Whewell was specially unteachable

or unduly resolute in his own opinion the explanation  think
;

                 iIs

simply this, that he forgot the remarks he had received, or could

not easily find them among the confused mass of his papers, and

so in the haste of his incessant occupations they were neglected.

CHAPTER IX.

1838. . . 1840.

IN the year 1838 Mr Whewell was appointed to what was strictly
called the Professorship of Moral Theology 0r O'asaistical Divinity
at Cambridge; but he himself preferred to` consider the subject

committed to his charge as llIoral Philosophy. Mr Whewell

attributed his election principally to the encouragement which he
received from Mr Worsley, Master of Downing College, and then
Vice-Chancellor of the University. The appointment had been

Ifor a long time, perhaps always, a sinecure; the new professor

stated in one of his lectures--"so far as am aware, no duties per

taining to the office had ever been performed: at any rate none

had been performed for an interval of a century..." It is almost

needless to say that Professor Whewell did not follow the example
of official inaction which he received from his predecessors.

Professor Whewell attended the meeting of the British Asso

ciation at Newcastle in August, 1838. During the year he was
J.much engaged together with Sir
                                  Herschel and Professor

Peacock in communication with the government respecting the

expedition to be sent for the survey of the Antarctic regions.

    In the year 1838 he published a volume entitled The Doctrine

of Limits, with its applications; namely Conic Sections, the first three
Sections of Newton, the Difi`erential Calculus. This is an octavo
volume containing xxii and 172 pages, besides Errata and Addi

tional Errata. The design of the work is indicated by the title;
portions of subjects usually discussed in distinct volumes are here

collected into one. Besides the matters named in the title there

is also a section devoted to the Integral Calculus. The preface, as
is usual with the author, is interesting and instructive; it contains

ADDRESS TO THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.  121

acknowledgments of two errors, connected with limits, into which

he had fallen in previous publications. The book seems to have

enjoyed less popularity than the other elementary treatises by

Professor Whewell, and did not reach a second edition.

    At the anniversary meeting of the Geological Society on
Feb. 16, 1838, it devolved on Professor Whewell as president to

announce the award of the Wollaston Medal, and to deliver an
address. The whole matter occupies about 30 octavo pages in

the Proceedings of the Geological Society for Feb. 1838. The
medal was awarded to Mr Owen, who received it in person and
returned his thanks. The address gives an account of the more

conspicuous members of the society who had died during the

past year: these were Professor Turner, Professor Farish, Henry

Thomas Colebrooke, and Von Hoff.

      Professor Turner occupied the chair of Chemistry in what was

then called the University of London, now University College,
London. Mr Whewell seems to have been very intimate with
him, and speaks of him in warm terms. He says, "Dr Turner

entertained a conviction (I am stating the result of many interest

Iing conversations which have held with him) that the time was

come when the chemist could not hope to follow out the fortunes
of his science, and to read in her discoveries their full meaning,

without being acquainted with the language, and master of the

Iresources of mathematics." The same opinion was believe held

by a chemist of still greater fame,_namely Faraday.

     In the account of the recent progress of geology attention is

specially directed to the researches of Professor Sedgwick and

Mr Murchison. In consequence of these it is suggested that "one
third of our geological map of England will require to be touched

 with a fresh pencil."
      The subject of technical phraseology is noticed, and a meta

 phor introduced which Mr \Vhewell employed frequently in his
 writings, with great effect: "Is it not true, in our science as in all
 others, that a technical phraseology is real wealth, because it puts
 in our hands a vast treasure of foregone generalizations? And if

 we evade the difficulties which may occur in the application of
 this phraseology to new cases, by declaring that our terms are of

122 ADDRESS TO THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

little importance, is not this to deprive our language of all mean

ing and all worth ? Do we not refuse to recognize as valuable the

tokens which we ourselves circulate, and plainly declare ourselves     _

bankrupts in knowledge ?"

    Mr Whewell maintains the same opinion in this address as in
his later works with regard to a very interesting point. "...I have

no belief that geology will ever be able to point to the commence

ment of the present order of things, as a problem which she can

solve, if she is allowed to make the attempt... When we do thus

Icomprehend in our view the whole of the case, it is impossible for

us, as have elsewhere said, to arrive at an origin homogeneous

with the present state of things; and on such a subject the geolo

gist may be well content to close his own volume, and open one

which has man's moral and religious nature for its subject."

Towards the end of the address the President alludes to the

Istate of the Society, and his own connexion with it: "...To be

placed for a time at the head of a body which look upon with

Isuch sentiments, must ever consider as one of the greatest dis

tinctions which can reward any one who gives his attention to
Iscience.
            trust by your assistance and kind sympathy, gentle
I Imen, shall be able to preserve the spirit and temper which so

much admire ;--to hand that torch to my successor burning as

brightly as it has hitherto done. And there is one consideration

which will make me look with an especial satisfaction upon such
Ia result.
            have not myself the great honour of being one of the

members of the Society who are connected with it by an early

Iinterest in its fortunes, and by long participation in its labours.

may consider myself as only belonging to its second generation.

Now if there be a critical and a perilous time in the progress of a

voluntary association like ours, it is when its administration passes

out of the hands of its founders into those of their successors. It

is like that important and trying epoch when the youth quits the

paternal roof."                         »

In attempting to estimate the progress of a flourishing science

there must be room for difference of opinion as to the value of

recent contributions; and it is not surprising that Mr Greenough,

an eminent geologist, wrote to the President of the Society

ADDRESS TO THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.  123

respecting two points in his address. Mr Whewell had traced up
to Von Hoff the merit of an important method of investigation;

the correspondent thought that the two Delucs ought to have been
mentioned, since they had adopted this method at a still earlier
period. He also considered that Mr Whewell had been hasty

in concluding that the researches of Professor Sedgwick and
Mr Murchison in the north of Devon would necessarily lead to

great changes in the geological map of England.

    In the year 1839 Professor Whewell printed anonymously a
translation of Gothe's Herman and Dorothea into English Hex
ameters. It was reproduced in 1847 in the English Hewameter

ITranslations; and shall speak of it hereafter.

    In the months of June and July, 1839, Professor Whewell

made a tour in Germany; he was furnished with letters of intro

duction by Bunsen.

    At the anniversary meeting of the Geological Society on
Feb. 15, 1839, it devolved again on Professor Whewell, as President,

to announce the award of the Wollaston Medal, and to deliver an

address. The whole matter occupies about 40 octavo pages in the
Proceedings of the Geological Society for Feb. 1839. ' The medal
was awarded to Professor Ehrenberg of Berlin, and was received

for him by the Chevalier Bunsen, who returned thanks. This

may have been the occasion on which Professor Whewell first

became acquainted with Bunsen. The address gives an account of 4
the more conspicuous members of the Society who had died during
the past year: these were Sir Abraham Hume, Benjamin Bevan,
Nathaniel John Winch, William Salmond, Count Montlosier,

Anselme-Gaétan Desmarest, and Count Kaspar Sternberg. To

this list was added Baron Von Schlotheim, who died in 1832, but

of whom no notice had as yet been taken in the annual addresses.

     With reference to Sir Abraham Hume we are told, "Indeed

he may in a peculiar manner be considered as one of the Founders
of the Society. English geology, as is well known, evolved itself

out of the cultivation of mineralogy,---a study which was in no

small degree promoted, at one time, by the fame of the mineralo
gical collections of Sir Abraham Hume and others."

     After speaking of some meetings of cultivators of mineralogy,v

124 ADDRESS TO THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

Ithe address proceeds thus. "Out of the meetings to which refer

this Society more immediately sprung. The connection of mine
ralogy with geology is somewhat of the nature of that of the nurse
with the healthy child born to rank and fortune. The foster
mother, Without being even connected by any close natural rela
tionship with her charge, supplies it nutriment in its earliest
years, and supports it in its first infantine steps; but is destined,
it may be, to be afterwards left in comparative obscurity by the
growth and progress of her vigorous nursling. Yet though geology
now seeks more various and savoury food from other quarters, she
can never cease to look back with gratitude to the lap in which
she first sat, and the hands that supplied her early wants."

     The notice of Count Montlosier is very interesting. The
Count was active in French politics in the early days of the first
revolution, became an exile, and resided for some years in London,
where he was the editor of a royalist journal. " ...Under the em
pire he returned to France, and was employed in the Foreign
Office of the Ministry, but recovered little of his property except
a portion of a mountain, which was too ungrateful a soil to find
another purchaser. The situation however could not but be con
genial to his geological feelings; for his habitation was in the
extinct crater 0f the Puys de Vaches. The traveller, in approach
ing the door of the philosopher of Randane, had to wade through
scoriae and ashes; and from the deep basin in which his house
stood, a torrent of lava, still rugged and covered with cinders, has
poured down the valley, and at the distance of a league, has
formed a dike and barred up the waters which form the lake of
Aidat ;--a spot celebrated by Sidonius Apollinaris, Bishop of Cler
mont in the fifth century, as the seat of his own beautiful resi
dence, under the name of Avitacus." Some account of Montlosier
as a politician will be found in the Revue cles deuw lllondes for

Dec. 1874.

    In the sketch of the recent progress of geology especial atten

tion is given to the labours 0f Sedgwick and Murchison. Refer
ring to the liberality with which our corner of the world had been

supplied with groups of strata Professor Whewell observes, "As if

Nature wished to imitate our geological maps, she has placed in

ADDRESS TO THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.  125

the corner of Europe our island, containing an Index Series of
European formations in full detail." Professor Whewell also

speaks very highly of the researches which Mr Hopkins had com

municated to the Royal Society, respecting the problem of pre

cession and nutation on the supposition that the interior of the
Earth is fluid.

With regard to the prospects of the science the President ob
"I Iserves:
confess, indeed, for my own part, do not look to see

the exertions of the present race of geologists surpassed by any

who may succeed them. The great geological tlieorizers of the

Ipast belong to the Fabulous Period of the science; but consider
Ithe eminent men by whom am surrounded as the Heroic Age of

geology. They have slain its monsters, and cleared its wilder

nesses, and founded here and there a great metropolis, the queen

of future empires. They have exerted combinations of talents

which we cannot hope to see often again exhibited, especially

when the condition of the science which produced them is
Ichanged.
           consider that it is now the destiny of geology to pass

from the heroic to the Historical Period. She can no longer look

Ifor supernatural successes, but she is entering upon a career,

trust a long and prosperous one, in which she must carry her vigi

lance into every province of her territory, and extend her dominion
over the earth, till it becomes, far more truly than any before, an

universal empire."

    In the concluding paragraphs of his address, Professor Whewell

thanks the Society for the honour conferred on him by the office

of President, and alludes to his own special pursuits: "For it

Ihas ever been one of my most cherished occupations, and will,

trust, long be so, to trace the principles and laws by which the

progress of human knowledge is regulated from age to age in each

of its provinces. To have had brought familiarly under my notice

in a living form, the daily advance of a science so large and varied
as yours, has been, as it could not but be, a permanent and most

instructive lesson ;--perpetually correcting lurking mistakes, and

suggesting new thoughts."                                      _

Professor Whewell found much difficulty in obtaining a

successor in the ofiice of President; he applied in vain to

  1 26 TWO REVIEWS.

 Sir J. Herschel, Sir P. Egerton, Leonard Homer, and Faraday:

 ultimately Dr Buckland, who had already discharged the duty,
 was persuaded to undertake it again.

       Professor Whewell contributed to the Philosophical Magazine
  Of January, 1840, the matter which occupies pages 65...70; this
  consists Of a review of Professor Miller's Treatise on Crystallo

 graphy, and of a review of the Transactions of the Cambridge Phi
  losophical Society, Vol. VII, Part 1. The Treatise is highly praised

  with the slight reservation contained in the following sentences.
  "\Ve cannot help thinking, however, which we do with regret,
  that this book, mathematically so admirable, will be a sealed book

 to a large body Of crystallographical students. It is written with

  a rigorous brevity, worthy of the ancient mathematicians: a qua
  lity, in itself, doubtless, a beauty, but one of those stern beauties
  which repel, rather than attract, common beholders." The review
  finishes thus: " We cannot conclude this brief notice without ex

  pressing our satisfaction, that this subject of crystallography, after
  being put in so many forms for. the last half century, has here
  assumed a shape which, so far as mathematical simplicity and sym

  metry go, leaves us nothing to desire, and therefore no reason for
  further change." The review of the part of the Cambridge Philo
 sophical Transactions consists of short notices of various abstruse
  mathematical memoirs.

    I may observe that Professor Whewell was the correspondent

 the justice of whose remark is allowed on page 104 of the Philo

_ sophical lllagazine for February, 1840.

      In this year Professor Whewell printed for private circulation
  some English Hexameters, entitled The Isle of the Sirens: it was
 reprinted in 1847, and will be noticed hereafter.

       He seems to have taken some interest in a philanthropic
  society at Paris, called the Institut d'Afrique, of which he was ap

 pointed an honorary Vice-President about this time : the secretary,
  M. de Saint Anthoine, assures him that the Society would always
  see with pride among its foreign notabilities the name of the dis
  tinguished writer and illustrious Professor of Moral Philosophy of

 Cambridge. A letter from Dr Livingstone, dated Oct. 1859,

 giving an account of his travels in Africa, shews that Dr Whewell

vrsrrs 'ro HOLLAND AND GERMANY.  127

long retained his sympathy with the exertions made for the civili--

zation of that quarter of the globe.

    The Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences was published in
1840 ; it will be noticed in the next Chapter.

    In the summer of 1840 Professor Whewell visited Holland and
Germany in company with Mr Thurtell of Caius College. In

September he was with Professor J. D. Forbes in Scotland, and was
I believe present at the early part of the meeting of the British

Association at Glasgow; but he was obliged to hasten back to
Cambridge to take part in the examination for fellowships in his
college. Towards the end of the year he and his friend Mr Hare

were very earnest in supporting the claims of Lord Lyttelton as a
candidate for the office of High Steward of the University; but
Lord Lyndhurst was elected.

                       CHAPTER X.

           THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE INDUCTIVE SCIENCES.

IN 1840 Professor Whewell published his important work entitled
The Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, founded upon their His
tory; it consists of two octavo volumes containing altogether
about 1230 pages. The second edition appeared in 1847 in two
octaVO volumes containing altogether about 1430 pages. The in
crease of bulk in the second edition is due mainly to three causes,
namely, a fuller Table of Contents, the addition of some Philoso
phical Essays previously published, which occupy rather more
than 100 pages, and the use of larger type than before for that
part of the work called Aphorisms: The work was some years
later separated into three, called respectively the History of

Scientific Ideas, 2 vols. 1858, the Novum Organon Renovatu'm, 1858,

and the Philosophy of Discovery, 1860; the last of the three con
tains large additions to the portion of the original work which it
includes. These three publications are in small octavo, ranging
with the third edition of the History of the Inductive Sciences.
This separation of the original work into three cannot be
considered a fortunate operation; it seems to shew a want of
stability in the author which shakes the faith of his readers:
Professor Whewell had already in his treatises on Mechanics
exemplified the same process of rearrangement with unsatisfactory
results. He says himself in a letter to Mr Jones, June 11, 1846:

"I have more and more come to the conviction that to alter a

book very much in the second edition spoils it. You may avoid

Isome errors, but you lose the vitality and meaning of the wor ."

In speaking of the Philosophy shall refer to the pages of the

          ANSWER TO A REVIEW.  129

second as the standard edition, reserving until a later period any
remarks on the final issue of the work in three divisions.

The work is dedicated to Professor Sedgwick. The original

Preface might have been advantageously reproduced in the second
edition, but instead of it something quite different is substituted.

The Preface to the second edition says that very slight alterations
are made in the first edition, "except that the First Book is re

modelled with a view of bringing out more clearly the basis of the
work ;--this doctrine of the Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy."

The alterations occur in pages 1...50 of the first edition; they

might be described by a friendly critic as merely natural modi

fications of the original views, while an enemy might exaggerate

the changes so as to find evidence of great unsteadiness and fickle
ness. The want of an Index is a great defect in the book; in
the History there are two lists, which, though far from being suf

ficiently extensive, do serve in some measure the purposes of an

Index.

The Philosophy was reviewed in the Athenceum, Number 672,

Sept. 12, 1840. To this review Professor Whewell replied in a

pamphlet, which was probably printed only for private circulation.

The pamphlet contains six very closely printed pages, besides the

Iintroductory paragraph, dated Sept. 22, 1840, which will re

produce.

   I"Perhaps when you see the subject of this paper, you will

at first think that shew a needless `sensitiveness in replying

immediately to a review of my `Philosophy,' in a weekly journal.

IIf, however, you will read to the end, you will find that have not

written with any discontent against my Critic. His remarks af--

forded me an opportunity of explaining a little further the objects
Iof my Work; which am afraid, with all explanation, my readers
Iwill find in many parts somewhat abstruse; and have taken
I Iadvantage of the opportunity.
          have answered my Critic as

Ishould have answered a fair objector in conversation, bluntly, but
  hope not rudely."
     One of the points discussed is the philosophy of perception.
The critic held that Professor Whewell borrowed Kant's essential

doctrines and stated them badly: Professor Whewell maintained

W. 9

130 REVIEW BY BREWSTER.

that what was borrowed was explained nearly in Kant's own
words, but that much was added for which he, and not Kant,

was responsible.

   IAs have already said in Chapter VIII the work, in conjunc

tion with the History, was reviewed by Sir John Herschel in the
Quarterly Review. The Philosophy was also reviewed in the Dub
lin University Magazine for February and November, 1841; the
first of these articles relates principally to Kant, the second is
interesting, though rather too rhetorical: the signature, B, sug
gests that they may possibly be due to Professor Archer Butler.

     The Philosophy was reviewed by Sir D. Brewster in the Edin
burgh Review for January, 1842, in an unfavourable manner.

Brewster, pre-eminent as an experimenta-list in Optics, was no

mathematician, and, what is rare among his countrymen, he

seems to have disliked metaphysics; and consequently there was
much in the work quite beyond the range of his sympathy. One
thing which offended him much was the warmth with which Pro~
fessor Whewell supported the claims of the Undulatory Theory of
Light; the conclusion of the review will shew the opinion of the

critic on this point: "It [the Undulatory Theory] utters predic

tions, and contrives to fulfil them; and not centent with the dig
nity of a prophet, it wields the sceptre of a king in attempting to
crush the spirit of experimental philosophy, on which the scien
tific glory of our country can alone repose. Thus armed with
inquisitorial powers, it has enjoyed a temporary triumph. But
its doom, as a physical theory, is sealed, and when it has lin
gered for another century as a mathematical hypothesis, the true
cause of the phenomena of light will reward the diligence and
genius of those who, in the spirit of genuine induction, have ad
vanced in the straight and narrow way that leads to the Temple
of Truth."

     An article by Mr Herbert Spencer, entitled The Universal
Postulate, in the Westminster Review for Oct. 1853, has the Philo

sophy of the Inductive Sciences among the works placed at its head.
So far as the article bears on Dr Whewell, it relates to the con
troversy between him and Mr Mill on necessary truth, and on
inconceiva-bleness as a test of impossibility." Mr Spencer does not

                         CORRECTIONS. 1 ~                        131

agree witheither of the disputants, but is nearer to Dr Whewell

than to Mr Mill.         '- I                                 -

IAs in the case Of the History, think that the later editions

of the Philosophy ought to have shewn evidencesiof more careful

revision than they actually received. A few examples of mistakes

Ior difficulties which appear in all the editions may be noted;

cite the pages of the second edition.

    Vol. I, page 68: "if equals 'be taken from equals the wholes are

equal." Instead of wholes we must read remainders.
     Vol. I, page 84 : " the mere formal laws by which appearances

are corrected."   Probably instead of corrected we should. read con
nected.                                                                                                                                  '"

Vol. I, page 99: "the boundaries of an interminable space."

This seems to me to involve a contradiction, namely the bounda

ries of a space without boundaries. It recalls to the memory a

sentence almost at the end of Leslie's Dissertation in the Encyclo
poedia Britannica, where he speaks Of the " shadowy visions which

flicker along the horizon of Illimitable Space."

Vol. I, page 282: "the principles which form the basis of our

mechanical reasonings,_--that every change must have a cause,

and that bodies can act upon each other only by contact." It is

difficult to accept the statement that "bodies can act upon each

other only by contact:" it seems contradicted by the fact of attrac

tion, according to the author's own opinion on his page 260.

     Vol. I, page 399. Here the doctrine of chemical compounds is

stated in such a manner that A is made to neutralise n, without
any condition as to the relative weights of A and n.

Vol. 1, page 698 note. Instead of No. CXXIII, p. 126' we must

read No. cxxxm, p. 127.  >'

A few remarks may be made on some of the topics discussed

in the Philosophy.

The first Book is entitled Of Ideas in General. Dr Whewell

maintains that there is a considerable number of Fundamental

Ideas in all the sciences hitherto most successfully cultivated. 'He

states them at the end of thislBook, and proceeds in subsequent

Books to discuss them in detail. Thus in the second Book he

treats of the Ideas of Space, Time and Number, which are the

                                                  9--2

132 CRITERION 0F NECESSARY TRUTH.

foundations of Geometry and Arithmetic; in the third Book he
treats of the Ideas of Force and Matter on which the Mechanical

Sciences more peculiarly rest; and so on. Whatever may be the
amount of conviction which the reader can obtain from the first
Book, he will at least admit that the author's doctrines are de

veloped and illustrated with great vigour and clearness. It has

been said that many thinkers were unable to accept the ultra
Platonic hypothesis .on which the Philosophy was based; but it
would be morecorrect .tospeak of it as ultra-Kantian than ultra
Platonic. Although Professor Whewell paid much attention to
Plato, yet it was chiefly at a later period of his life ; and rather as
a moralist than as a metaphysician.

    In pages 55 and 59 Dr \Vhewell gives a criterion of necessary

truth, namely that we cannot distinctly conceive the contrary.

But if this he the case it becomes a puzzle to conjecture how we

are to follow many of the indirect demonstrations in Geometry.
For instance in Euclid I. 5 .we have to take a triangle with two
equal angles and conceive that the corresponding sides are un
equal, and trace the consequences of this conception. Dr Whewell
seems to admit that children-and savages could form an indistinct

conception in this case, but that persons of mature intellect could
not: thus according to him Euclid's demonstrations may half
convince a child or savage, but fail completely when presented to

a trained mathematician.

    In Vol. I, page 156, and Vol. II, page 359, a statement is made
to the effect that if the properties of the conic sections had not
been demonstrated by the Greeks the discoveries of Kepler could

hardly have been made. It cannot be said that Dr Whewell him

self attaches undue weight to the statement, but it has become

popular and has sometimes been loaded with a weight of suggested

inference which it will not bear. It is not true that any large amount

of familiarity with the conic sections is required for the discoveries
of Kepler; a. very small fraction of the treasures accumulated
by the Greek geometers would suffice for this purpose: probably
a dozen pages would supply the necessities of a student who wished
to master even the Principiaof Newton. The notion that the
exuberant developments and refinements now so characteristic

CLAIMS or PURE MATHEMATICS.  . 133

of pure mathematics constitute a capital which will hereafter pro

duce an abundant return in physical applications is not warranted

by the tenour of scientific history, for the exigencies of natural

philosophy lead rather to the creation of new methods than to the

employment of those already current; this is well exemplified in
Ithe theories of Attraction and of the Figure of the Earth.
                                                             am

Ilittle likely to undervalue the cultivation of pure mathematics,

but do not wish the claims of this department of knowledge to
be placed on untenable grounds.

     The third Book, which treats of the Philosophy of the Mecha

nical Sciences, is very interesting ; especially the Chapter on the

General Difi`usion of clear ilfechanical Ideas. A few sentences

which occur on page 271 well deserve to be extracted. " The most

familiar words and phrases are connected by imperceptible ties

with the reasonings and discoveries of former men and distant

times. Their knowledge is an inseparable part of ours; the pre

sent generation inherits and uses the scientific wealth of all the

past. And this is the fortune, not only of the great and rich in the

intellectual world: of those who have the key to the ancient

storehouses, and who have accumulated treasures of their own ;--

but the humblest inquirer, while he puts his reasonings into

words, benefits by the labours of the greatest discoverers. When

he counts his little wealth, he finds that he has in his hands

coins which bear the image and superscription of ancient and

modern intellectual dynasties ; and that in virtue of this posses

sion, acquisitions are in his power, solid knowledge within his

reach, which none could ever have attained to, if it were not that

the gold of truth, once dug-out of the mine, circulates more and

more widely among mankind."

Nothing is more remarkable in the history of mixed mathematics

than the extraordinary inaccuracy and fluctuation of the language

of the earlier writers when measured by modern standards.
Although there has been a gradual improvement in this respect

much remains to be done, and perhaps some of the expressions now

current in our books will hereafter be proscribed. Dr Whewell's

language does not seem to be quite satisfactory, though it is far
superior to much that had survived to the date of his work. With

134 FORCE AND PRESSURE.

I Iout entering into details,                         have said in
                                    will repeat what

Chapter II, that one great blemish is the frequent use of the word

pressure instead of the word force. This is the more curious

because in many cases the better course seems instinctively fol

lowed. Thus on page 185 there are some very good remarks on

Force, and on page 203 the fundamental proposition of Statics is

very properly entitled the Parallelogram of Forces. Many writers

instead of the last phrase use the Parallelogram of Pressures; that

is they seem to contemplate one species of mechanical action alone,

to the exclusion of others: it would be as reasonable to speak of

the Parallelogram of Squeezes, or the Parallelogram of Thrusts, or ,

the Parallelogram of Pulls. Perhaps the word pressure is occa

sionally used instead of force for the mere rhetorical purpose of

varying the expression; there cannot be a graver offence against

scientific accuracy, and sometimes Dr Whewell may be guilty of
                         a
                                                                I,

                                                                         a
                                                                                 it,
but this will not account to any appreciable extent for the recurrence

of the word pressure. Take an example from Vol. page 238,

where a weight hanging by string over the edge of smooth

level table draws another weight along the table; Dr Whewell
speaks of the " pressures which restrain the descent of the first

body and accelerate the motion of the second:" an examination of

the context will shew that the word firrces would be far preferable
to the word pressures. In fact here the weights are not pressed

but pulled. As another example we may take two sentences from

the History, Vol. II. On page 37 we have "the Velocity which

any force generates in a given time when  it  puts the body in

motion, proportional to the Pressure which- the same force pro
is
      isduces in a body at rest and on page 38 we have "in the same
                         ;"
                                is
body, the velocity produced as the pressure which produces it."

It obvious that in the second sentence pressure should be

changed into force, in order to correspond with the first sentence;

and in the first sentence there     is  something very awkward in

having pressure produced in a body.

In Vol. page 267, Dr Whewell alludes to the opinion             of
          I,

Hegel that Kepler's glory had been unjustly transferred to Newton;

this matter had been already noticed in the History, Book VII,

Chapter II, Section  5.  Hegel's opinions respecting Newton were

HEGEL AND COLERIDGE.   135

considered by Dr Whewell with more detail in a paper printed in
the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions, Vol. VIII, and reprinted

in the Philosophy of Discovery. He should have remarked that

the extravagances which he condemns in Hegel had been main

tained by one who might have been expected to revere Cambridge
and Newton. Coleridge in his Table Talk is reported to have

made some remarks on the subject, in the course of which he

assures us that "it would take two or three Galileos and N ewtons
Ito make one Kepler."
                       do not know that there is any evidence

of Coleridge's competence to appreciate Galileo and Newton; and

I presume he merely borrowed from Hegel without acknowledg
Iment. Dr James Hutchinson Stirling has believe published a

work in which he discusses the question between Hegel and

IDr Whewell; but have not seen it.

     The second Book of the Philosophy is called the Philosophy of
the Pure Sciences; it treats in fact of the philosophy of the mathe
matical sciences. Now these are not inductive sciences at all, as

Dr Whewell himself says on his page 83: their peculiarity is that

they involve the process of deduction in a most remarkable charac

ter. The third Book of the Philosophy is called the Philosophy of
the Mechanical Sciences; it is much more closely connected with

that which precedes than with those which follow. The second
and third Books form indeed one division of the whole work: it

may be said that the lessons gathered from the study of Mathe

matics and Mechanics are applied in the remainder of the work to

other sciences. This involves some important peculiarities with

respect to the whole Philosophy. The mathematical sciences are

avowedly deductive, and the mechanical sciences, so far as they are

here considered, are more deductive than inductive; thus we really

have principles mainly gathered from a survey of deductive sciences

afterwards applied to subjects of a different kind, as chemistry

and biology, which may be truly inductive. The second and third

Books of the Philosophy are more precise and definite than the

rest; the latter however are more novel and dificult. It is curious

that no special Philosophy is ascribed to the subject which occupies

I the most prominent place in the History, namely Astronomy.
       The peculiarities of Dr Whewell's treatment are seen then

136 IDEA or POLARITY.

most distinctly in the Books Iv to X, which treat successively of

' the Secondary Mechanical Sciences, the Mechanico-Chemical Sci
 ences, Chemistry, Morphology, the Classificatory Sciences, Biology,

and Palaetiology. Speaking generally we may say that in these

Books, instead of starting from an idea, as he starts from the idea

of cause in his third Book, he proceeds in search of an idea; and

what is finally presented- to- us as an idea is such a filmy abstrac

tion that it can scarcely be considered as admitting Of steady con
templation, and certainly not Of any fertile application. In Book V

the idea of Polarity is propounded as that which is prominent and

distinctive. It is there shewn that in Electricity, Magnetism,

and Light, the word Pole and its derivatives Polarity and Polarisa--

tion have been usefully and extensively employed: but it seems

only a verbal generalization to say that the idea of Polarity is the

characteristic of these sciencesand the guide to future progress in

them. We are directedto strip. off- from the idea all that is super
fluous, and to arrive with Mr Faraday at the idea of polarity as
" an axis of power, having [at every point] contrary forces, exactly
equal, in opposite directions." Vol. 1, page 355. The result is so

unsubstantial that it would scarcely be intelligible to any person
but Mr Faraday himself, and tohim it would be superfluous.

There is something arbitrary in the collocation of the Ideas.

For instance Cause is allotted to. the Mechanical Sciences; but it

would seem to be also quite as. prevalent in the so-called Secondary

.Jllechanical Sciences.  -

In Chemistry we are told at first that the appropriate ideas

are those of Element and Substance, Vol. 1, page 376; but subse

quently the idea of Chemical Afinity is discussed at length ;

perhaps however this is meant to be only another name for the

idea of Element: sec Vol. I, pages 376 and 388. An interesting

summary is given on page 546 of the attempts made to explain the

phenomena Of Chemical Combination, and made in vain; until at

last we find men "finally acquiescing in, or rather reluctantly ad

mitting the idea of Afinity, conceived as a peculiar power... " It

might perhaps be said with more justice that men abandoned their

attempts at explanation and finally acquiesced in the name Affinity,

as simply a description of the phenomena without further analysis.

               IDEA or SUBSTANCE.                                                             137

    In Biology we are told that the peculiar idea is that of Life.
But it does not seem that there is any agreement among Biologists

as to what this idea really is. Dr Whewell himself works vigorously

at a definition--a practice which he is usually far from commend

ing. His final result is that Organic Life is a constant Form of a
circulating .Matter, in which the llIatter and the Form determine

each other by peculiar laws (that is, by Vital Forces). Vol. I, page

588. If in Dr Whewell's own words (Vol. 1, page 356) his idea of

Life is "divested of all machinery," the residuum is merely the

tautology that Life is something determined by Vital Forces. He

seems indeed subsequently to allow that very small success had

attended the pursuit of the idea or even of the definition: see

Vol. II, pages 7 and 22.                            `

The proof-sheets of the parts of the Philosophy which relate to

Biology and Physiology were submitted to the criticism of Pro

fessor Clark of Cambridge, Professor OWen, and Sir H. Holland;
the latter suggested that there was a little too much reference

to foreign authorities, to the comparative neglect of English

physiologists. Sir H. Holland objected to the word sum as an

unsatisfactory translation of the French word ensemble in Bichat's
definition, which Dr Whewell on his page 574 presents thus: "Life

is the sum of the functions by which death is resisted." It seems

strange that Dr Whewell did not yield to this objection.
    In connexion with Chemistry the idea of' Substance is dis

cussed, and we are told that the "weight of the whole compound

must be equal to the weights of the separate elements." See
Vol. 1, page 413, and Vol. II, pages 431, 659. Of course there is
no practical uncertainty as to this principle; but Dr Whewell
seems to allow his readers to imagine that it is of the same na

ture as the axiom that "two straight lines cannot enclose a

space." There  is,
                           a
                                             I,
                                                                                 is
                                                                                          is
               however, a wide theoretical difference between
them, depending upon fact which Dr Whewell has himself recog

nised in another place: see Vol. page 224:. The truth that

strictly speaking the weight of the whole compound  not equal

to the weight of the separate elements; for the weight depends

upon the position of the component particles, and in general by
altering the position of the particles, the resultant effect which we.

138 BOTANY.

call weight is altered, though it may be to an inappreciable ex

tent. Or we may say that we can always make the weight of the

elements equal to the weight of the compound, if we are allowed

to change at our pleasure the place where the experiment is per

formed, that is to weigh the compound at one place and the ele

ments at another. Moreover even the time at which the weighing

is performed is theoretically important; for weight changes with

the changing positions of the sun and the moon in the sky.

Trifling as may be the practical uncertainty which thus attaches

to weight, it is quite sufficient to deprive the assumed principle of

that absolute a priori certainty which the book seems to ascribe .

to it. The same considerations will form a powerful argument
IIIagainst'the doctrine of Essay
                                  in Vol. II, pages 624...634, which

seeks to demonstrate that all matter is heavy.
                                                                                                                                                                                 '
     Both in the History and in the Philosophy Dr Whewell gives

much attention to Botany. His remarks are very interesting, but

they seem to leave the impression that only the simpler and less

valuable parts of the subject are treated. There is scarcely any

account of vegetable physiology, which ought perhaps to receive

the chief attention. The late Professor Henslow used to say that

Botany offered us the best prospect of finding out what Life

really from the ample facility which supplies for experiments
is,
   is

                                             it

                                                                                  is
                                                                                I,

                                                                                                                                                       ;
probably Dr Whewell would have held that Zoology the most

promising study in this respect: see his Philosophy, Vol. page

540. It worthy of notice that one of the most eminent of Dr
Whewell's scientific antagonists, J. S. Mill, also paid considerable

attention to Botany; and one point on which the two differed

was the method of natural classification. Perhaps both writers

looked upon the problem of such a classification as simpler and

nearer to a solution than really is.  extract few words with
a

   it

              I

                                                 a
respect to Mr Mill, which appeared in the Examiner of May 17,
1873. "Most botanists agree with Mr Mill in his objections to

Dr Whewell's views of natural classification by resemblance to

`types' instead of in accordance with well selected characters; and

indeed the whole of these chapters are well deserving the careful _

study of naturalists, notwithstanding that the wonderfully rapid

progress in recent years of new ideas, lying at the very root of

                 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.                                         139

all the natural sciences, may be thought by some to give the

whole argument in spite of its logical excellence, a somewhat an

tiquated flavour." In the Academy, Oct. 1, 1873, a writerasserts
that Mr Mill did not understand the proper end of classification.

     The second volume of the second edition of the Philosophy is
very interesting; it consists of Book XI, On the Construction of

Science, Book XII, Review of Opinions on the nature of Knowledge

                               Book XIII, Of Methods employed in
and the method of seeking is
                                it,

                                                                    it
the Formation of Science, and the Aphorisms concerning Ideas,

concerning Science, and concerning the Language of Science. An

Appendix is      formed by six Essays which had been previously
             is
published. The Review which constitutes Book XII may be espe

cially commended. Dr Whewell always shines as a critic. His

great power of acquiring knowledge and presenting                                 in a vivid

manner shewn to the best advantage in these historical sketches.

    Books XI and XIII are, however, the most important in the

volume; their design       legislative rather than historical and

critical. Although full of instruction and interest, they do not

seem well fused into an independent system. In the first place,

it       not easy to see the mutual relation of the two Books--to

     is

distinguish between the construction of science, and the methods

employed in the formation of science; this difficulty obviously

occurred to Dr Whewell himself, for in the Novum Qrganon

Renovatum, which consists mainly of reprint of these two Books,
                          5,
the first entitled simply Of Knowledge; but the mere changeis
of title does not constitute distinction of substance. In the nextI
                                                a

                                                                               .
place, there seems to be some discrepancy between the statements

scattered over the two Books.  will examine the point with a

little detail.

According to page          the processes by which we arrive at

science are two, namely,

                 Explication of Conceptions. .A.

                 Colligation of Facts ....... ..B.

I        place the capital letters here and throughout for the sake

of reference.                                                                     B

    It appears from page 46, that the combination of A and

constitutes Induction. Then    it       not immediately obvious what

                                    is

140 cons'rnuc'rron or SCIENCE.

part is performed by the Chapters of Book XI, which come after

page 46. But it would seem from the last sentence of Chapter IV,

that Chapter V, which is entitled, Of certain Characteristics of

Scientific Induction, is to aid us in determining when the task has

been rightly executed. Then Chapter VI, which is entitled, 0f
the Logic of Induction, may perhaps be said to be a comparison of
Induction with Formal Logic. The remaining three Chapters of

this Book may be described roughly as remarks on the nature of

the results obtained by Induction. But there is a want of a well

defined plan in the Book; the connexion is not very obvious be

tween the later Chapters and the earlier Chapters in which the

two principal processes of the first Chapter are developed.

Now pass to Book XIII. We are told, on page 335, that there

are three main points of the process by which science is constructed.

Decomposition and Observation of Complex Facts...C and D.
Explication of our Ideal Conceptions ................ .. A.

     Colligation of'Elementary Facts by means of`these

         Conceptions ........................................... . . B.
    Here, in addition to the A and B of the original` statement, we

have another process which, for the sake of convenient reference,

I resolve into two parts, denoted by C and D respectively.

On page 336, "we have the following series of processes con

cerned in the formation of science."

      (1) Decomposition of Facts ............. .. C.
      (2) Measurement of Phenomena .......... ..D.
      (3) Explication of Conceptions ............. ..A.

       (4) Induction of Laws of Phenomena ....
      (5) Induction of 'Causes ......................

I (6) Application of Inductive Discoveries...G.

   assume that Measurement of Phenomena is equivalent to

Iwhat was before called Observation of Complex Facts; and from

pages 336 and 337 infer that Methods of Observation is another
phrase for the same thing. Moreover, from page 336, it seems

that E, F, and G together constitute what was formerly de

noted by B.

Finally after the introduction the Chapters of Book XIII bear

the following titles :                '

              CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.     141

II. Of Methods of Observation.
III. Of Methods of acquiring clear Scientific Ideas; and first

of Intellectual Education.

IV. Of Methods of acquiring clear Scientific Ideas, continued.

Of the Discussion of Ideas.

V. Analysis of the Process of Induction.

VI. General Rules for the Construction-of the Conception.
VII. Special Methods of Induction applicable to Quantity.
VIII. Methods of Induction depending-on Resemblance.

IX. Of the Application of Inductive Truths.

     X. Of the Induction of Causes.

    It would seem that II corresponds to our D; that III and IV
correspond to our A; that V, VI and VII correspond to our E; that

IX corresponds to our G; and that X corresponds to our F. But
still there are doubts which suggest themselves. It appears for
instance from page 380, that V, VI and VII are equivalent to B; so
that E is equivalent to B: whereas we formerly concluded that
E, F and G together were equivalent to B.

    Chapter V is called Analysis of the Process of Induction; but

the Chapter really analyses Induction into three parts and dis

cusses the first part. Then, very awkwardly, Chapter VIII treats of

a process of Induction which was not included in the so-called

Analysis of Induction.
     By comparing pages 380, 389 and 395 it seems that the follow

ing phrases are to be considered equivalent: Determination of the
lllagnitudes and Special Methods of Induction applicable to Quan

tity. There is great perplexity caused by such needless variation

of language.

     We were formerly told that Induction consisted in the combi

nation of A and B; but we are afterwards told that Induction con

sists of B alone: see pages 380 and 473.

    It will be seen that Chapters IX and X are equivalent to the

(5) and (6) which were quoted from page 336, but with a change
of order. The change was doubtless prompted by rhetorical con

siderations, for a more impressive termination is thus secured for

the Book; see page &40.'                .

Although the Books XI and XIII are full of valuable remarks

142 LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE.

and suggestions, yet they would have been much improved by

condensation into one Book, and by attention to a consistent uni--

formity of doctrine and expression.
     The first Aphorism concerning Ideas is the following: " Man is

the Interpreter of Nature, Science the right interpretation." This

is founded on Bacon's first Aphorism, omitting however all allusion

to Power; for which Dr Whewell gives reasons in his Vol. 11, pages

I2416 and 430. In the preface to the first edition Dr Whewell said
respecting Bacon's first Aphorism; " Thus  have ventured to

separate his first Aphorism into two ;" but this statement is in

complete, for he should have added, and to omit the second part.       g

In the first edition of the Philosophy the Aphorisms were placed at

Ithe beginning of the work; but apprehend that this was merely

for the convenience of making the two volumes of about the same

size, and the paging seems to shew that they were printed after

the rest. Moreover we. read on page 51 of this edition, with respect

Ito the Language of Science, "its rules and principles Shall here

after try, in some measure, to fix." The hereafter here refers to
matter which is really placed before in the volume.

     The remarks concerning the Language of Science are expressed

with great modesty; it could not have been inferred from them

that the names adopted by some of the eminent masters in science,

to whom Dr Whewell refers, were originally suggested by himself

or at least submitted to his judgment. Such however was the

case, as we learn from his correspondence: and nothing puts in a

stronger light the eminent attainments of Dr Whewell than the

respect with which he was consulted by so many of his contempo--

raries: amOng these we find Bell, Faraday, Lubbock, Lyell,

Murchison and Owen.

The general structure of Dr Whewell's Philosophy, and also
Ivarious subordinate parts, have been much criticised.
                                                        may in

Iparticular mention the article by Sir John Herschel in the Quarterly

Review, to which have alluded on page 102, the Treatise on

Logic by J. S. Mill, and the Biographical History of Philosophy

by G. H. Lewes.

    Dr Whewell replied to Sir J. Herschel in a paper which was

printed and circulated privately, and afterwards published in the

ORIGIN or OUR IDEAS.                                      143

second edition of the Philosophy, Vol. II, pages 669...679. The

reply takes the form of a letter to Sir John Herschel, in which the

Reviewer is alluded to as if he were some third person; this little

Ifiction could presume never have concealed from any person the

real author of the Review. Dr Whewell replied to Mr Mill and

IMr Lewes in his Philosophy of Discovery.

       shallnot venture to join here in the controversy carried on

Iby such distinguished men, except so far as to say that cannot

personally agree with Mill and Herschel to refer my conviction of
Ithe truth of the foundations of geometry to experience.
                                                          can

venture to disclaim most emphatically any trace in my memory of

obtaining certainty by trial and experiment as to the axiom

that two straight lines cannot enclose a space. Whether there

may not be some compromise between the views of Sir J. Herschel

and Dr Whewell may furnish matter for conjecture. Why it may

be asked should we all arrive at our convictions in the same way?

Is it not possible that one person may have recourse to experi
ment, while another finds that he can do without it? Or may we

appeal to the doctrine, now receiving much attention, that our

faculties are modified by descent, so that we really inherit what

appears at first sight to be innate? Thus we may imagine that

one philosopher springs from a long line of ancestors, who have made

sufficient experiments in their generation, so that their descend

ant enters into possession of results which he unconsciously sup

poses to be innate. Another philosopher owing to the neglect of

experiment by his progenitors has to execute such labours for

himself before he can arrive at the idea of Space in Dr

Whewell's sense. He has in fact to acquire a fortune instead of

succeeding to an entailed estate. Sir J. Herschel seems to me

practically to surrender his own position in the words which are

quoted with emphasis by J. S. Mill in his Logic, Vol. I, page 282,

"including always, be it observed, in our notion of experience, that  ,

which is gained by contemplation of the inward picture which the

mind forms to itself in any proposed case,..." What is thus included

by Herschel and Mill in the notion of experience, if allowed to be

sufficiently prominent, will be nearly sufficient for Dr Whewell's
Idemands. After all  suppose that Sir J. Herschel and Dr

 144 MERITS OF THE PHILOSOPHY.

 Whewell would quite agree in the fact that we do ultimately
 possess certain fundamental ideas; and this is of great practical

 importance, even if the speculative problem as to the origin of

 such ideas remains unsolved.

     There are slight indications in the correspondence of Dr

 Whewell that in very earl;r years his philosophical views may not
 have been quite identical with those which he afterwards main
 tained. Thus his friend Hugh James Rose in 1822 seems to
 charge him with undue depreciation of Plato; :and a letter of his
 own to Richard Jones of the same period is perhaps not quite
 consistent with his mature opinions. But on the whole it would

 appear that his philosophical principles soon became fixed, and are
 maintained with great consistency throughout his long series of

Ipublications: have noticed an apparent exception in speaking

 of the Bridgewater Treatise.

     It is according to Goldsmith a safe criticism to say that the
picture would have been better if the artist had taken more

Ipains; at the risk of appearing to repeat such an obvious remark

cannot forbear from expressing the wish that Dr Whewell had
continued during the second half of Ibis mature life {the pursuits of
the first. The quarter of a century between 1816 and 1840 pro

duced the History and the Philosophy; if the next period of the

same duration had been employed in a similar manner we might
have Obtained other works of a kindred character, or at least large
additions and improvements to these. But Whatever objection
may be urged against specific portions of the Philosophy, it remains
still a noble design executed with rare ability. The author pro
posed to traverse the wide fields of physical science, to extract
the most important results from the past, and to indicate the prin
ciples which should guide the future. He did not despair of the
fortunes of knowledge ; he held that real connexions must subsist
among the apparent infinite mass of details, and he_ encouraged
investigators to seek for such general ideas in all their peculiar
occupations. The lessons which he explicitly taught and impli
citly suggested seem peculiarly useful at the present day when
every pursuit. is specialised. Mathematics alone form more than
sufficient occupation for one student, and have to be separated into

GENERAL SURVEYS or SCIENCE.             145

distinct parts; and the natural and experimental sciences in like
manner are minutely subdivided. The claims of a candidate for

scientific distinction are urged for instance, not on the ground that
he is eminent in Natural History, .nor even that he is familiar with
Zoology, but that he is well versed in the Lepidoptera. The study
of such a work as the Philosophy may well counteract the nar
rowness which the exclusive devotion to one selected branch of

knowledge is apt to produce; to use language attributed to
Professor De Morgan, it will encourage a man to know something

about everything as a balance to knowing everything about

something.
     Perhaps however the desire for unity in 'science amidst the

seeming endless diversity is again manifesting itself; and books

appear among us which discuss the same subjects as in the pre

ceding generation were treated in Herschel's Discourse, Whewell's

IPhilosophy, and Mill's Logic. Without however depreciating any
recent attempt,  may be permitted to recommend the older
Iwritings as still deserving of study.
                                        will not attempt to make

a comparative estimate of these three; but only observe that

the merit of such general surveys of sciences consists rather in

the aids they afford to thought than in the rules for guiding
Imanipulations.
                 find the following remarks in a recent article
Irelating to Mr Mill, but cannot say that they seem to me satis

factory. "Sir John Herschel very much improved the rules of

inductive enquiry, but they still remained empirical rules unsup

ported by theory. Whewell collected a large mass of facts connected

with the progress of inductive science; but his work bears the

same relation to a true philosophy of induction as Wombwell's

menagerie did to a natural history museum. Neither Whewell

nor Herschel solved the problem of induction and so distant
did such a solution appear to be that not only Macaulay, but
even Whately pronounced it impossible." The article maintains

that Mr Mill did solve the problem which had baffled his prede

cessors.                                                               -

     More recently the following  Jsentence appeared in another

review. "We may state however     our firm belief that Mr evons's

w. 10

146 GROTE'S EXPLORATIO PHILOSOPHICA.

mode of treating the subject has given the coup ole grdce to
                                 `
Mr Mill's theory of induction."
I ought not to pass without notice a volume entitled Ew

plomtio Philosophical, published in 1865, by Professor Grote, who

succeeded Dr Whewell in the chair of Moral Philosophy at Cam

bridge. Sixty pages of this volume are devoted to an examination

of Dr Whewell's Philosophy of Science, following as many which

treat of Mr Mill's Logic. The volume bears ample testimony to

the power of its author, and will recall, to those who had the

high privilege of knowing him, many excellent traits of a character

which they justly regarded with reverent affection. There are,

however, some peculiarities which weaken the impression the

work might produce, in spite of the great ability which fre

quently appears in incidental remarks. Perhaps few persons will

follow the author in the high value which he assigns to Professor

Ferrier's Institutes of Illetaphj/sic: for while as a clever academi
cal exercise that volume can scarcely be overestimated, it seems to

have slender claims to be regarded as a serious contribution to the

subject on which it treats. Professor Grote paid little attention

to the systematic development of his views, and neglected the

graces of composition; the latter is a fatal defect with respect to

a science which has been adorned by some of the finest writers in

the English language. Hume and Berkeley, Dugald Stewart and
J. S. Mill, by their conspicuous charms of style have rendered
                                                         I will
students of metaphysics almost unreasonably fastidious.

advert to two points of interest noticed by Professor Grote. On

his page 203 he Offers an explanation of the relations which the

four parts of Dr Whewell's whole work, as finally divided, bear to

each other--a matter which is by no means obvious. The History

of the Inductive Sciences forms the first part; the Philosophy of

this History is contained in the History of Scientific Ideas, which

forms the second part; the third part is the Philosophy of Disco

very, which is to be regarded as the History of Scientific Method ;

the Philosophy of this History is contained in the Novum Organon

Renovatum, which forms the fourth part. This is ingenious ; but
it will be seen that it reverses the chronology of the third and

             HUMBOLDT'S LETTER.                                          1 47

fourth parts: that according to this scheme the Novum Organon
is
                         is,

                      it
                                                                     if
Renovatum should have appeared last, and not the Philosophy of

Discovery. On his page 225 Professor Grote gives a note which

involves the suggestion that while Dr Whewell and Mr Mill both

put forward the name of Bacon, they were really rather followers

of Descartes.

    It known from the correspondence of Dr Whewell that his

labours on his History and Philosophy were carried on simultane

ously; and thus at the time when the former was published he

was far advanced in the preparation of the latter: indeed,               this

had not been the case would have been impossible even for his

untiring energy to have produced the Philosophy within three years

after the History, in the midst of his very numerous occupations.

Eleven bound note-books have been preserved which contain

abstracts and references connected with the History and Philo

sophy, and also drafts of portions of these works. Another note

book which has been kept with these bears a similar relation to'

the Bridgewater Treatise.

This Chapter may be fitly closed with the letter in which

Humboldt acknowledged the receipt of a copy of the Philosophy

the Inductive Sciences.
of

      J
" Monsieur,

" 'ai été extrémement sensible Monsieur l'honneur
                                              J

                                                      e

                                                            a
que vous m'avez fait de m'envoyer votre grand et important

ouvrage de "Philosophie des sciences exactes."  n'ai pu mériter

cette distinction que par la vive admiration que depuis bien des
années j'ai marquee pour votre "History of the Inductive Sciences."

Je vous ai lu non dans la pale tzraduction de M. Littrow, mais

dans la langue dans laquelle on aime  lire ceux qui ont la
                                      a.

                                             a

                                                               je
puissance de la parole.  J        savois que vous nous prépariez la

                               c

jouissance d'un ouvrage philosophique propre appre'cier la sureté

des méthodes- et la certitude sur laquelle reposent nos connois

sances du monde intérieur; j'en avais parlé ave`c chaleur au

Silurien M. Murchison, et comme nous respectons en lui, et dans

l'excellent et respectable M. Sedgwick un ami commun,                    suis  ~

                                                10--2

1 48 HUMBOLDT'S LETTER.

tout satisfait de la bienveillance avec laquelle M. Murchison vous

aura révélé la curiosité dont j'ai été tourmenté. J'aime à me

rappeler de "plus une soirée bien agréable que nous avons passée
ensemble chez l'illustre Cuvier, dont l'esprit étoit plus logique que

philosophique et qui blâmoit un peu trop tout ce qui tendoit au

delà. "de mettre de l'ordre dans les idées." Vous ne me rendez

pas justice, Monsieur, si vous craignez que j'appartienne à cette

secte de mes compatriotes qui dédaignent Bacon et le trouvent

un peu rococo. Je suis innocent de ce dédain et aucun de mes

travaux  il (sitoutefois  il  en existent) montre de l'indifférence pour

le " N ovum Organum." J'ai du commencer par me justifier devant

celui qui honore de nos jours par son nom le "collége de Bacon

et de Newton." Quant          le à  l'ensemble de votre vaste ouvrage,

Monsieur, m'est pour moment impossible d'entrer dans des

discussions partielles. Je vous écris ces lignes du haut d'une petite

"colline historique," dont nom peut vous rappeler bien des disle

-tractions et des devoirs de position qui ne sont pas tout fait                      à.

littéraires. Je ne connois pas d'ouvrage depuis 10 ans qui excita

   un plus haut degré mon vif intérêt. Les chapitres Philosophy
à

of the Pure Sciences, la Morphologie, les forces vitales, (un des
mythes nombreux de nos physiologies), la mer ténébreuse des

traditions palætiologiques que vous avez navigué avec une noble

indépendance de l'esprit, les méthodes d'induction et                                résumé
                                    si
historique que vous avez donné Vol.  283...469, m'ont offert
                                              à ii

                                                         p.
                                                                         à

                                                                                 le
des lectures pleines d'intérêt et de charme dans les jardins de

Sans Souci! Après vous avoir suivi dans vos ingénieuses re

cherches sur les mouvemens de l'Océan, on aime vous suivre

   travers ces fluctuations de l'intelligence, variées selon l'espace
à.

     le
et tems et soumises cependant des retours périodiques.

Lorsqu'on voit les choses de haut, comme vous Monsieur, on

permet   le  doute ceux, qui comme moi, ne savent que glanerà.

dans les spécialités. Je n'ai encore vu votre grande composition

que comme ces forêts vierges (sylvas sylvarum) dont on découvre

la surface ondoyante lorsqu'on est placé sur  sommet des
                                              le
                                                            le
Cordilleras. Je n'ai encore pu jouir que du coup d'oeil général,

mais votre grand ouvrage m'accompagnera sous peu vers nord,

HUMBOLDT'S LETTER.          -  1 49

devant suivre le Roi à. la prestation des hommages à Kônigsberg,
où je trouverai deux savans illustres bien dignes de vous lire,
M. Bessel et le grand géomètre M. Jacobi.

    "Je saisis avec empressement cette occasion Monsieur pour

vous renouveler l'hommage de ma haute et respectueuse c'on
sidération.

                                                   LE BN DE HUMBOLDT.

    "Veuillez bien excuser mon écriture illégible. J'ai un bras

malade des exhalaisons des forêts du Cas'siguiaré.

Â SANS Scum près Porsmm,
        ce 14 Août, 1840."

                       CHAPTER XI.

                                                1841 . . .1853.

 AT the beginning of the year 1841 Professor Whewell felt some
 inclination to accept the college living of Masham in Yorkshire,
 which was then vacant; and he consulted his friend Mr Hare on
 this proposed change in the nature of his occupations: ultimately,
 however, he declined the preferment. In this year he published a
 pamphlet entitled Two Introductory Lectures to two Courses of
 Lectures on llloral Philosophy: this will be noticed hereafter in
 connexion with the other works on Moral Science.

     In the year 1841 the British Association assembled at Plymouth
 on July 29th; Professor Whewell was the President, and gave an
 address which occupies pages xxvii...xxxv of the Report of the

 meeting.

     It is frequently the practice in such addresses to offer an esti

 mate of the scientific work of the preceding year, and it might
 perhaps have been expected that one who had traced the history
 of several branches of knowledge through many centuries should
 have followed this course. But Professor Whewell speaks of such
_ a task as "always difficult and sometimes long;" and instead of it
 proposes to occupy a few minutes with a slight sketch of the
 general aspect which the Association now appears to offer to a
 thoughtful spectator. Accordingly he adverts to the scheme of a
 Philosophical College which Bacon had drawn up in the New
 Atlantis, and called Solomon's House. The British Association
 may be considered to correspond in some degree with this scheme
 of Bacon's, the difference consisting in its voluntary character
 instead of its subjection to the control of the State. Professor
 Whewell warns the members of the Association against an evil

MARRIAGE.  151

 which we see from his correspondence that he strongly deprecated,
 namely a tendency to introduce questions of legislation and politics
 into their discussions. He concludes his reference to this topic in
, the following words: "Knowledge is power; but for us, it is to be
 dealt with as the power of interpreting nature and using her
 forces; not as the power of exciting the feelings of mankind, and
 providing remedies for social evils, on matters where the wisest

  men have doubted and differed."

       Two extracts may be given which contain interesting personal
 references to the speaker himself. With respect to his occupying

 Ithe position of President he says: "On one account, at least, may
 Iventure to undertake such a ministry as this: have been a faith

  ful attendant upon the meetings of the Association ever since its

  first institution, and there is scarcely any subordinate ofiice of

 Ilabour or dignity in the constitution of the body which have not

  at one place or other discharged, with such zeal and care as was in

  my power." Adverting to the scientific zeal and intelligence of

 Ithe miners of Cornwall, Professor Whewell says: "Perhaps have

  had very unusual opportunities of becoming acquainted with their
  merits, for in two different years (1826 and 1828), in the prosecu
  tion of certain subterraneous experiments, undertaken in conjunc

 Ition with the present Astronomer Royal and other persons, lived

  four months the life of a labouring miner, and learnt how admir
 able for skill and conduct is the character of all classes of the

  mining population in that region."
       On October 12, 155-11, Professor Whewell married Cordelia

  Marshall, at Watermilloch Church, Cumberland, near Hallsteads,
 the residence of John Marshall, Esq, her father. On October 16
  letters from Dr Peacock and`others reached Professor Whewell at
  Coniston, informing him that Dr Wordsworth had resigned the

  mastership of Trinity College, and according to the advice given to
  him he came to London immediately. There he found a letter
  from Sir Robert Peel offering him the vacant post; he accepted it
  on the 18th, had an interview with Sir Robert Peel on the 19th,

  and returned by the night mail to Coniston. On the 23rd he sat
  down to write the first lecture of a new course on Moral Philosophy.

        The selection of Professor Whewell for the Mastership was

152 MASTERSHIP OF TRINITY COLLEGE.

approved with a hearty unanimity which shewed the general con

viction of his great power and attainments. His claims were urged
upon the consideration of members of the Government by various

well-qualified judges, but Sir Robert Peel was justly proud of the

circumstance that he recommended Professor Whewell to the

Queen spontaneously  before Iany of the favourable      testimonies
reached him.

In the year 1842 the British Association met at Manchester in

June. Professor Whewell seems not to have been present, though

it is usual for the retiring President to introduce his successor

in office formally to the meeting. The new President, Lord

Francis Egerton, in his address alluded in graceful terms to his

Ipredecessor: "You met last year, indeed, under different auspices.
   cannot forget--J wish for the moment you could--how your

Chair was then filled and its duties discharged. Could you forget

the fact, it were hardly to my interest to awaken your recollection

it,

                     I
                           I

                                               I

                                                                                    is
to that such a man as Professor Whewell filled last year at

Plymouth, an office which now hold at Manchester.                                     do so for

the purpose of remarking that he, more able, perhaps, than any

man living in this country to give you a concise and brilliant

summary of all that he and his fellow labourers are doing, forbore
Ifin his discretion from that endeavour.
                                          he, then, who                                 known

in matters of science to have run

"Through each mode of the lyre, and be master of all,'

abstained from that undertaking, may now be excused, not for

my own silence, which would require no apology, but for not
calling on one of your other functionaries to supply my place for
the purpose."

     In September, 1842, the inhabitants of Lancaster gave a

public dinnerito their eminent fellow-townsmen, Professor Whewell
and Professor Owen. On Nov. 5th, 1842, Professor Whewell.

preached before the University, and naturally alluded to the
Gunpowder Plot and to. the glorious and blessed deliverance

effected by \Villiam III. His great predecessor Bentley had

preached before the University on Nov. 5th, 1715, and had

attacked the errors and the crimes of Popery with all his vast

BOARD OF MATHEMATICAL s'runrns.  153

ability as a scholar, a theologian, and a controversialist. Professor
Whewell was appointed Vice-Chancellor of the University in
November, 1842, and held the office according to custom until
the November of the following year.

     In 1843, during his Vice-Chancellorship, a proposal was

offered to the Senate of the University for the temporary con
struction of a Board of Mathematical Studies. The Board was

to consist of the Lucasian, Plumian, and Lowndean Professors,

and of the moderators and examiners for the current year and the

two preceding years. A report was to be presented by the Board

to the Senate in 184A, and again in 1847. The; function designed
for the Board .was to guide and control the mathematical studies

and examinations of the University. The proposal however was
rejected by the Senate of the University, as one had been some
time previously of a similar kind, but having the Master of Trinity

College as a proposed member. A printed paper of three quarto

pages was circulated in the University recommending the proposed

IBoard; the only copy have seen has the date T. L. April 13,

1843, and the signature W. Whewell, both added in manuscript.

Another printed paper of two quarto pages also recommended the
proposed Board; it is dated April 3; 18`t3, and is unsigned: it

may have been written by Dr Peacock. A Board of Mathematical

Studies was established in the University by a regulation of the
Senate on Oct. 31, 184:8; see Dr Whewell's Liberal Education,

Art. 289.

     Among the matters which engaged his attention during his

Vice-Chancellorship may be mentioned--a petition from the Uni

versity to Parliament in favour of retaining the Welsh Bishopricks
undiminished in number; the election of a Regius Professor of

Divinity to succeed Dr Turton, when Dr Ollivant was the success--

ful candidate; and the opposition of the University to the scheme
of the Railway Company with respect to the site of a station

in Cambridge. Professor Whewell's ofiicial engagements `did not
prevent him from taking an interest in other matters which were
brought before him. The Bishop of London had suggested the
formation of a committee to enquire as to what good school~
books were at present'in use for the schools of the poor; and

154 ELEMENTS OF MORALITY.

the committee consulted Professor Whewell on the subject of

English Grammar. He must have replied to the committee, as
the receipt of a "very kind letter" is acknowledged. In the

same year Bunsen, then occupied with his work on Egypt, wished

to submit his views on the Philosophy of Language to Professor
                                                                                                                                                            '

Whewell.

In the year 1844, Professor \Vhewell took the degree of Doctor

of Divinity. He preached on June 30th before the University.

He was present at the meeting of the British Association at York

in September.

On January 30th, 1845, Dr Whewell preached before the

University; the subject of his sermon was Christian patriotism,

and he naturally alluded to the special services then connected

with the death of King Charles the First.

    In the year 1845, Dr \Vhewell published his Elements of

"Illlorality. He says in a'letter, dated March 7, to Mr Jones,

Iam to get my larger book out in May if possible: for this pur

pose must print and correct at the rate of a sheet a day, which

is fast going." The work will be noticed hereafter.

The British Association met at Cambridge in June, 1845.

This was not according to Dr Whewell's wish; he thought that

the trouble and excitement attendant on such a large concourse

of visitors ought not to be imposed for a second time on the Univer

sity while there were so many places which had not borne the

burden once. But he acquiesced in the arrangement when made,

and endeavoured to secure by personal invitation the presence of
some distinguished foreign men of science.

    In this year perhaps he went for the first time to Cliff Cottage,

Lowestoft, an attractive residence near the sea, to which hence

forward he frequently resorted. He purchased the place in 1851.
He was much pleased with Fairlight Down in Sussex, and the

                 but, as he wrote to Mr Jones in September, 1845,
shore near     it,

                                                       _of

                                                    it

                                                                               a
he "did not discover its beauties till     was too late to make

any enquiries."

In September, 1845, Dr Whewell attended the meeting of

the Archaeological Association at Winchester. In October, 1845,
                                                                                                                          '
Dr Daniel Wilson, Bishop  Calcutta, wrote
                                                                                  long letter to

INDICATIONS OF THE CREATOR.                                            155

Dr Whewell respecting the offer to the University of Cambridge of

a Prize of £500 "for the best Refutation of Hinduism, and State

ment of the Evidences of Christianity in a form suited to the

Hindus." The liberal donor of the Prize himself drew up an

admirable. paper, explaining the nature of the Essay which was

required; this was issued to the University on May 27, 1846,

in the form of an official document on seven quarto pages. It
Iis addressed, "Rev. \V. \V. D.D.;" this
                                          presume refers to

Dr \Vhewell. The prize was awarded to the Rev. Rowland

Williams, of King's College. Bishop Wilson, through whom the

offer was made to the University, was at this time on a visit to

England; he spent a few days at Trinity Lodge in November,

1845, and was much gratified at the kindness shewn to him.

Dr Whewell presented a statue of Bacon to Trinity College;

the resident Fellows in November, 1845, requested Professor

Sedgwick to convey their thanks to the Master for his gift; the

interesting letters which were written on this occasion have been

preserved.                                                             entitled

   I proceed to notice two publications of the year 1845.

    In the year 1840 a work was published anonymously,

Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation, in which the old

theory of Lamarck, respecting the development and transformation

of the species of animals, was revived. The work was written in

a captivating style, and thus excited considerable attention, while

its doctrines were viewed with some alarm. In the course of the

year 1844 Dr Whewell was urged by various friends to reply to
    and was requested to write an article on in the Edinburgh
it,
                                         of

                                                                    a

                                                          of
                                                                it
Review; but he declined to do more than to issue some extracts

from his former publications, in which, as he considered, the

opinions of the author of the Vestiges had been anticipated and

condemned. In his correspondence he attached great importance

to the fact that the passages thus selected had presented them

selves spontaneously in the course of his philosophical reflections,

and had not been produced with any specially controversial ob

ject. Accordingly he issued in 1845 slender volume in small

octavo entitled, Indications  the Creator, consisting of extracts

from the History and the Philosophy  the Inductive Sciences,

1 5 6 LIBERAL EDUCATION.

together with one from'the Bridgewater Treatise. The volume
is dedicated to W. Smyth, the Professor of Modern History at
Cambridge. The preface alludes in general terms to the subject
which had been brought into notice by the Vestiges, but does not

specifically mention that work. In 18% a second edition of the

Indications appeared with the addition of a new preface, which is
very polemical in tone, and refers frequently to a publication

entitled, Explanations: a Sequel to the Vestiges of the Natural .
IIistory of Creation. Little remark on the subject is needed, for

the facts are familiar to those who take an interest in science or

literature. The popularity of the Vestiges was partly owing to
the mystery which hung over the authorship, and may have been
augmented by a vehement attack in the Edinburgh Review; the
work went rapidly through several editions, but finally almost
disappeared from public notice. Recently Mr Darwin has again
drawn attention to the same theory of development, though in

a more cautious and moderate spirit.

   I pass to the work entitled, Of a, Liberal Education in general;

and with particular reference to the leading studies in the University
of Cambridge. This is an octavo volume; the title, dedication,
preface, and contents, occupy xviii pages, and the text 248 pages;
it is dedicated to G. B. Airy, Esquire, Astronomer Royal. The
book is of the same character as that on English University Edu
cation, which was published in 1837; but of much larger extent.

It consists of four Chapters entitled respectively, Of the subjects

of Educational Study, Of the method of teaching in Classics and
Mathematics, Of the recent and- present condition of Mathematical
and Classical Education at Cambridge, and Plan of a standard

Cambridge Course of Mathematics. It will be seen that the au

Ithority of Dr Whewell may be quoted in favour of the word

educational, which has been condemned, think, by Archbishop
Trench.

    In the first Chapter we have educational studies divided into

the permanent and the progressive; the former being those which
connect men with the past, and the latter those which connect
them with the future. The paramount place in education is
claimed for mathematics and classics. The whole discussion is

         CLASSICS AND MATHEMATICS.           157

very interesting, and is perhaps even more important at the pre

sent day than when it was first published, inasmuch as there is

now a stronger tendency than formerly to dangerous heresies with
If Irespect to the principles of education.
                                             may venture to indi
Icate what appears to me a defect, should say that there is a

want of practical direction as to the extent to which the training

is to be carried. In his Art. 115, Dr Whewell strongly condemns

the practice of allowing a student to confine himself to classics

alone, or to mathematics alone, according 'to his choice; but the

programme which is recommended as suitable with respect to
these two departments of knowledge will appal even the most
resolute youth. For the mathematical course is to include the

Principia of Newton, the Me'cam'que Analytique of Lagrange, and

the llle'cam'que Ce'leste of Laplace; while in the classical course a
thorough acquaintance with the Greek and Latin languages, and

a familiarity with the best classical writers, are indispensable.

The demands thus made on they exertions of a student may re

mind us of the long list of the qualifications necessary for a poet,
according to Dr Johnson, and may well draw forth the despairing

Iexclamation--" Enough, thou hast convinced me can never ac

quire a liberal education."

    A few points of detail in the 'first Chapter may be noticed.

In Art. 19 we read, with respect to the interest of the Greeks in

Philosophy, "Such speculations formed a large portion of their

Philosophy; and such Philosophy has occupied every succeeding

generation up to the present time; and most, the generations of

greatest intellectual activity." But the last clause of the pre

ceding sentence seems scarcely consistent with a long and vigorous

Ipassage on pages 21...25 of the work on English University Edu
cation.  will extract from this one sentence, which is printed by

the author himself in italics: "The progress of science corre

sponds to the time of practical teaching; the stationary, or retro~
grade, period of science, is the period when philosophy was the

instrument of education."

In Art. 28 Dr Whewell assigns to the ancient classics a vast

superiority over modern authors; and, in fact, distinctly implies

that none of the latter approach the former in extent of influence.

1 58  I GEOMETRICAL comes.

It may be doubted, however, whether this is a safe or a fair esti

mate. In such a comparison we can frequently trace the habit of
putting, perhaps half unconsciously, all the Greek and Latin
writers in one scale, against some single modern writer in the
other scale. But take distinct examples; it would be scarcely

possible to find a single ancient poet whose influence for
range and power conspicuously surpasses that of Shakespeare or

Dante.

    A statement in Art. 93 may be commended to the notice and
judgment of classical scholars; it seems rather hazardous: "It is

not likely that we have in modern times, any one who knows
Latin better than Erasmus did, or Greek better than Bentley."
The word knows, as applied to a language, however, is susceptible
of various meanings, and thus in some one or other of these the

opinion may be sound.
     Dr \Vhewell is strongly in favour of presenting mathematics,

for the purpose of education, rather in the geometrical than in the
analytical form. He considers, and very justly, that the cultiva
tion of the higher departments of analysis is rather the business _
of the professional mathematician than the discipline of the general
student. But the same remark would apply equally to much of
the geometrical learning which he recommends; the Principia of
Newton, for example, at least in any approach to its whole extent,
may be suitable for a mature philosopher but scarcely for a youth

under educational training. In connexion with his comparison of
mathematical methods it may be observed that Dr Whewell does

not seem to appreciate sufficiently the value of new conceptions.
Take for example the subject of conic sections, which he strongly

recommends to be studied geometrically, and not by the method
of coordinates. Now it is obvious that when a youth has gone
through a course of Euclid he is only continuing essentially the
same kind of discipline in passing on to Geometrical Conics; he
gains indeed more facts and results, but no additional power
and no fresh principles; or at least any such acquisition bears no
proportion to the expenditure of time and attention which the
subject demands. But the study of the method of coordinates
introduces him to a region entirely unknown before; he has to

METHODS OF TEACHING.                                      159

master the peculiarities of a new language of curious idioms and

marvellous power; and the difficulty which young students usually

experience in acquiring some familiarity with the strange tongue is

a fair measure of the importance of the task, and the healthy

vigour which it promotes.

   IAn interesting opinion is recorded in Art. 65, though may

venture 'to say that my own would be exactly contrary to it: "I

have no doubt that in any application of geometrical, mechanical,

or hydrostatical principles to a problem of moderate difiiculty,

supposing the problem new to both of two students; one, a geome~
ter'of the English school of forty or fifty years back, the other a
modern analyst, instructed in equal degrees; the former would

much more accurately and certainly obtain a definite and correct

solution."

    In Art. 52 we read, "The general belief, for undoubtedly it is a

general belief, that Mathematics is a valuable element in education,
Ifhas arisen through the use of Geometrical Mathematics.
                                                          Mathe

matics had only been presented to men in an analytical form, such

is                                   in any place of education,

                               If,
a belief could not have arisen.

Mathematics studied only in an analytical form, such a-belief

must soon fade away."    The last sentence in the preceding pas
sage seems contradicted   by experience; take for instance the
mathematical education   in the celebrated Ecole Polytechnique of

France.                                                 Variations,
                                                      of
    In Art. 31 we read with respect to the Calculus
                                                                         is
which has been a favourite pursuit with some mathematicians:

"Such steps of wide symbolical abstraction, however beautiful as

subjects of contemplation to persons of congenial minds, are out of

the range of any general system of Liberal Education."

The second Chapter of the work on Liberal Education

entitled Of the method   is of  teaching in Classics and Mathematics.

This contains much that interesting and valuable, as might have

been expected from the long experience and advantageous position

of the author; his opinions on Examinations especially deserve

attention. The main element of the problem, so far at least as
Oxford and Cambridge are concerned, seems however almost for

gotten, though practically  it       of paramount influence; namely,

                                 is

160 PRIVATE TUTORS.

the fact that valuable fellowships are offered for attainments to

be tested by competition in some precise and definite manner.

At Cambridge on the average perhaps twenty students annually

gain fellowships, and twenty more throughout their course may

have reasonably indulged the hope of such success. Thus a dis

turbing force, tending to deflect from the direct pursuit of know

ledge, acts on a large fraction of the men of each successive year;

and on that fraction which may be supposed to include all the

students of conspicuous ability. No discussion of University

teaching and examinations can be complete which does not dis

tinctly recognise this prominent fact, and endeavour to suggest

remedies for the evils which it undoubtedly involves, even if we

admit predominant benefits.                 '

   Dr Whewell alludes in his Articles 169 and 170 to the dispu

tations which were formerly a part of the regular academical

exercises for degrees; he regrets their extinction although he
Iconsiders their restoration hopeless.
                                            remember to have heard

him state in conversation that very acute arguments were some

times produced in these contests; in particular he said that Sir

John Herschel, when passing through this stage of his undergra--

duate career, advanced a most subtle objection against one of the
received propositions in science. Dr Whewell promised to give

Ime the particulars of this on some future occasion; and much

regret that the opportunity never occurred.

    It must be observed that notwithstanding the familiarity of

the author with Cambridge practices his generalisations are some

times too wide for perfect accuracy. Thus he says in his Art. 156
that students will select as their private tutors, "...if the constitu--

                     it                 those who have been, or are to
                         is

                                   it,
tion of the University allows

be, Examiners;" but  sufficient to say in reply that the late

Mr Hopkins, who for more than twenty years was almost unrival

led as a private tutor of Mathematics, never held the ofice 0f

Examiner in the University.

   Dr Whewell recommends the combination of oral examinations

with paper examinations; his advocacy of the former, which have

almost disappeared from Cambridge,      is  moderate and judicious.

I  have discussed the subject in some published Essays, and will

                   SIR CHARLES LYELL. I                                             161

only say that the practical difficulties which beset any scheme of

searching oral examinations in mathematics seem insuperable.

Mr Jones, in writing about the present work to Dr Whewell,

says, amidst high general praise of it: "You have not converted

me into any liking for oral examinations. Most of the men here

[Haileybury] however side with you to some extent, that they
                                                               _I
value them as means of detecting imposture~but                                 is,
                                                               once passed a

morning in the schools at Oxford and came away with a profound

conviction of the intense injustice of using oral trials for the pur

pose of assigning relative rank for which men have toiled for years,
and do not think that conviction will leave me on this side the
I
grave." Dr Whewell must have grieved to see philosopher
        a          a
                            aa

                                                       a
                                                                        a
whom he had so constantly exhorted to walk in the paths of

inductive virtue, and whose eminent merit in this respect he had
himself attested and praised, thus announce that he had formed

_conviction, to be for ever unshaken, on single instance.

The Articles 128...146 form curious episode in the second

Chapter of the work; they consist of reply .to some criticisms
published in Lyell's Travels in North America on the opinions

advanced in Dr Whewell's volume on English University Education.

The criticisms and the reply seem both to have been out of place

in the books where they respectively appeared and the difference
                                    is
of opinion between the two authors
                                                            ;
                                                     such as might naturally be

expected when one fixes his attention mainly on the faults which

he wishes to correct, and the other on the merits which he hopes                    it

to retain. From drafts preserved among Dr Whewell's papers
appears that he wrote privately to his critic in 1847, urging the

same considerations as occur in the printed volume; and he re

ceived long and most able reply. It satisfactory to find from
                                                     is

their correspondence in later years that the old friendship of the

two eminent writers was not destroyed by their controversy. The

logic of facts seems to have decided in favour of Sir Charles

Lyell, who lived to see the accomplishment of many of the reforms

which he advocated and the assured prospect of the rest.
     The third Chapter of_ the work entitled On the recent and
                   of

                                                 is
present condition  .Mathematical and Classical Education at

Cambridge. This gives the history of Examinations at Cambridge,

w. 11

162 STANDARD COURSE OF MATHEMATICS.

quoting in many cases the official language which prescribed the
successive changes. Suggestions are offered with the view of

improving the examinations, and in particular the plan for con

ducting the Mathematical Tripos examinations is recommended

which was substantially adopted by the University, and lasted

from 1848 to 1872, both inclusive. The establishment of a Board

of Mathematical Studies is proposed in Art. 253; the suggestion

had been previously made by Dr Peacock; the Board was esta

blished in 1848 and still exists, but it may be doubted whether

its course has been on the whole judicious and the results of its

interference salutary. Some remarks on Private Tuition in this

Chapter seem more moderate in their tone than might have

been expected from the indications of opinion in the earlier part

of the volume.

     The fourth Chapter consists of a Plan of a Standard Cam
bridge O'ourse of Mathematics. This Course begins with Arith
metic, and then passes on to Algebra and Plane Trigonometry; so

that very strangely Geometry is omitted. Specific works are

recommended on the various subjects, but scarcely any of these

survive in the present mathematical teaching of the Uni

versity.                                     `

A friend of Dr Whewell writing to him about the book ex

pressed the opinion that the word Reason was employed in various

senses. He says: "In Art. 10 you must use it very largely for

Rational Thought and something more probably; in Art. 17 you

must mean the reasoning faculty simply, even to the exclusion

of Judgment, which is not exercised in the study of Euclid."

The writer mentions as containing excellent remarks, Copleston's

Reply to the Edinburgh Review, p. 104 et seq.; and the article by

Davison on` Edgeworth's Professional Education in the Quarterly
Review for Oct. 1811.

The remarks made by Dr Whewell in his Articles 100 and

101, ascribing small importance and value to Greek composition,

were once quoted by Lord Stanhope in the House of Lords, and

received with much attention.

   I will give extracts from two letters which record opinions on

some of the matters discussed in this work.

               ORAL EXAMINATIONS.         1 63 .

     Professor Chevallier 0f the University of Durham, writing to
Dr Whewell on Dec. 9, 1845, says:

     "Many of the points which you touch upon have of course
been brought prominently before our notice here; and many of

your suggestions have been already brought into practice for some
years, and with very good efl'ect.

     "The introduction of a viva voce examination in classical

examinations for honours has been accompanied with great

Iadvantage: and have long wished that a similar plan should

be adopted in Cambridge. A viva voce examination is valuable

for its influence on the examiners as well as on the candidates:

and there are some branches of scholarship, such as an extended
acquaintance with history, especially with the philosophy of
history, as well as a knowledge of the subject-matter of all the
books, which can scarcely be tested by any other means.

     "We have applied viva voce examination also in mathematics,
and found it perfectly easy of application, and very advantageous
in those parts of an examination which relate to natural philo

sophy."

   IMr Jones in the letter to which have already referred says:
Ip" For myself feel sincere pleasure in seeing your effort to purify

and amend the mathematical training of the place--I have long

been convinced that, as a matter of training, exclusive habits of

Isymbolical reasoning are not merely useless but deleterious, and
   see very often instances of their bad effects on men of very
                                   '
acute minds."

Dr Whewell's work on Liberal Education was reviewed in the

Westminster Review of July, 1848. The work was reprinted in

1850 almost unchanged, except by the addition of new matter
which will be noticed under that date.

    In the year 1846 Dr Whewell published a book entitled Lec

tures on Systematic Morality; he also contributed to Blackwood's
Magazine three letters on English Hexameters. The book and the
letters will be noticed hereafter. Dr Whewell was present at the

meeting of the British Association at Southampton in September,
18%. Sir John Herschel says in a letter'dated Sep. 2, 1846,

"I am very glad you are coming to Southampton and with a paper

                                   11--2

164 PROPOSED MAGNETIC OBSERVATORY.

in your pocket.   The subject is one which will not fail to be of
great interest."  There is nothing attributed to Dr \Vhewell in

the Report of the meeting, except a. short communication on a

Method of Measuring the Height of Clouds; and to this Sir John
Herschel's language seems scarcely applicable. Mr Joseph Kay

of Trinity College, who had held the appointment of Travelling

Bachelor in connexion with the University of Cambridge, publish

ed a work on the Education of the Poor in England and Europe;

some controversy connected with this publication between him

I Iand Dr Whewell is think in print, but have not seen it.

Dr Whewell seems to have contemplated the establishment of

la Magnetic Observatory in his house at Lowestoft, and letters
 alluding to the subject from Sir J. Herschel, Humboldt, and

Professor Phillips have been preserved. Perhaps the design was

abandoned as too expensive for a private person to carry out.

Some important remarks by Sir J. Herschel, in relation to the

contemplated observatory, ought not to be omitted: "In the first

I I Iplace would observe generally that if were asked how thought

an amateur of Magnetism and a good philosopher and mathema

tician could do most good for the subject presuming all lines of

Iproceeding equally consonant to his private tastes should say--

to set to work one or more good calculators under his directions

and furnished by him with formula and combinations to try
and get some definite results from the mass of magnetic and

meteorological observations already on hand--rather than add to

Ithe stock."      _

alluded on page 41 to the communications which Dr Whewell

sometimes received from ignorant men; as another example

I may state that, in 1846, he received from a land-surveyor a

diagram to support the assertion that the diameter of a circle is to

the circumference precisely as 7 to 22. The writer says, "I shall
feel much obliged if you will investigate it and give me your

Candid opinion on its merits, or if your time is fully occupied you

Iwill doubt not have the kindness to hand the paper to some

Friend of yours who will give it his early attention."

   I pass on to two mathematical publications of the year 184-6.

     The first of these is entitled Conic Sections: their principal

         MATHEMATICAL PUBLICATIONS.      165

properties proved geometrically. This is an octavo pamphlet con

taining in all 47 pages besides a page of errata. It was doubtless

occasioned by the University legislation of the period, which made

great changes in the system of examination for mathematical

honours, and explicitly prescribed Geometrical Conics as one of the
subjects. Dr Whewell in his preface strongly maintains the im

portance of this subject, but his arguments will not secure universal

assent: especially when the nature of the geometry here exhibited
is considered, for it consists almost entirely in the laborious com

bination of ratios. The publication was found useful; the second

edition appeared in 1849; and the third in 1855: the errata are

corrected but substantially no change was made in the original

work.                    _

II. III.The other mathematical publication of the year 1846- is entitled
Newton's Principia: Book I. Sections I.  In the original

Latin; with explanatory notes and references. This is an octavo
pamphlet containing in all 74 pages. The preface complains that

students under examination frequently deviated widely from

Newton's own methods while professing to reproduce his demon

strations ; and recommends attention to the original text as a
standard which ought to be maintained. There are in the notes

numerous references to the author's Doctrine of Limits. Some
directions drawn up by Newton himself about the books to be read

as preparatory to his Principia are here published for the first
time. In the list of works advertised at the end of this pamphlet as

By the same Author there is one entitled Statics (Elementary); or a

ITreatise on the Equilibrium of Forces in One Plane. 8120. Plates,
4s. 6d.  believe that this is a mistake, and that Dr Whewell did

not publish sucha work.

     An article in the Edinburgh Review for April 1847 treated on
the subject of Arabian Philosophy; in the course of it a quotation

was given advocating an extreme opinion on intellectual intuition,
and a foot-note was added in these words: "This passage is at the

service of Dr Whewell, in support of his arguments for that inde

pendence of all experience which he claims for certain truths."
The matter is of no consequence, but it so happened that this was

the first Number issued under the superintendence of Professor

1 66  VERSE TRANSLATIONS.

Empson, who was a friend of Dr Whewell, and thus it seemed a
curious time for a renewal of the old attacks on him by the

Edinburgh Review. The new editor expressed his regret for the
"saucy look" of the note, and explained that the article was

printed off before he had accepted the charge of the Review.

    In June, 1847, Dr Whewell attended the meeting of the British
Association at Oxford. In November he was appointed one of the

Visitors of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich in the room of
Dr Pearson who died in September; the appointment was made

I believe by the Marquis of Northampton, as President of the

Royal Society. In December Dr Whewell visited Paris, provided
with letters of introduction from Dr Hawtrey, the Provost of Eton.

     Three publications of this year will be noticed hereafter in the

appropriate Chapters; namely, English Hewameter Translations,

a sermon entitled The Christian's duty towards Transgressors, and

a volume of Sermons preached in the Chapel of Trinity College,

Cambridge.

   I proceed now to notice two other publications of the year 18`t7,

both poetical.

    In the early part of the year 1847, a volume appeared anony

mously entitled Verse Translations from the German: including
B'itrger's Lenore, Schiller's Song of the Bell, and other Poems. The
volume was published in London, by John Murray; it is in octavo.

The translations and the notes occupy 87 pages; the title, preface,

and list of contents, occupy 8 pages. The preface is peculiar

on this account; two paragraphs take an impersonal form, and

then the writer proceeds to say "I have added...", while no

name is subscribed. The authorship of the volume is known
from Dr Whewell's correspondence.

     As a specimen of the translations we may take a. passage from
the Song of the Bell; in this case and in some others the original
was annexed in order to supply "the opportunity of immediately

seeing the degree of fidelity which the translations attain."

      Proud from the Girl the Boy must dart;
         To plunge in life his bosom burns,

      A pilgrim he roams earth's every part,
         And a stranger back to his home returns.

TRAVELLER'S EVENING sous.                                    167

And there before his startled eyes,

   In radiant virgin bloom arrayed,
Like some fair vision from the skies,

   Before him stands the blushing Maid.

Then nameless yearning fills his breast;

   In lonely paths he steals along;
Tears fill his eyes and break his rest;

   He shuns his brethren's noisy throng.

He follows, blushing, where she goes;

   Her greeting makes all nature smile;
He culls for her the fairest rose

   -- To deck her bosom, all too vile!
O thoughts that thrill! O hopes that bless!

   O joys to first love only given!

The heart is drunk with happiness,
   The earth is brighten'd into heaven.

0 that the time might endless prove,

   That happy time of early love!

The following piece is called The Traveller's Evening Song:

   Lo! the fading gold of the west!
Darker and darker the purple unfolds its vest:

   The earth is silent growing--

   Louder the stream is flowing
         Lulling to rest.

   See the last gleam dies in the west!
Still shades cover all things on earth's wide breast:

   Serene and tender the feeling
   Over the senses stealing

          Soothing to rest.

   Under every covert is rest!         nest:
The branches quiver silently over the

   The birds all slumber securely;--
   Wait awhile, wait awhile,--sure1y

          Thou too shalt rest.

    A note says: "This is a translation of the German words which

accompany a very pleasing musical air." The fact however
that the first two verses are not a translation, but Dr Whewell's

own; while the third verse a translation, though not by him.
The original of the third verse due to Gothe; will be found

on page 101 of the first volume of the edition of his works in

thirty volumes issued in 1850: the translation, however, not very

close. A lady has kindly recorded the circumstances connected

with the composition of the English song, which Dr'Whewell
is
     is

                             it

                                              is
                                                             is,

168 THE SPINNING MAIDEN'S CROSS.

himself must have forgotten when it was printed. She was one

of a party assembled at Trinity Lodge on May 4th, 1844, and

sang among other.things the words which form the last verse of
the piece as it appears in the Verse Translations. Dr Whewell

and Lord Houghton who were standing near her both liked

the song, but said it was too short; the lady said she could

not lengthen it for there were no more words, but she hinted

that perhaps they might supply her with some. Lord Hough

ton said that the verse was complete in itself, and so a second

could not be added; but Dr Whewell rejoined that a first might

be put before it. The subject then dropped, but the lady took

an opportunity of returning to it a few days afterwards, and sent

her book to Dr Whewell ; he soon returned it with the two ori

ginal verses. A letter from Hermann Kindt a German friend

to Dr Whewell, dated Oct. 26, 1863, praises very highly the last

verse of the song as a translation.

One of the pieces in the Verse Translations is called The

Spinning Maiden's Cross; we are told in a note, with respect to

this, that it "has already been published at least three times, and

each time has been mutilated in such a manner as to render it

unintelligible." It appeared first in the volume called The
I ITribute, as have stated on page 97; do not know the other

two publications in which the piece was included, but it seems

from Dr Whewell's papers that one of them was a volume issued
Iby Mr J. Burns.
                  am not sure whether the piece is entirely ori

ginal or a translation; the Marquis of Northampton proposed this

question to Dr Whewell, and his answer seems to leave the mat

ter doubtful. A very able German friend of Dr Whewell, named

Heinrich Fick, hOWever, treats it as a translation. He says, in a

`letter dated May 29, 1847: "Having, as a most loyal interpreter

of our great Schiller's genius, followed him through the most

beautiful and varied lore of his muse, how delightfully you

finished your task with the sweet ballad, `The Spinning Maiden's

Cross,' which you rendered 'with most charming touching sim

plicity." H. Fick resided for several years in England ; his letters

shew that he was a person of great literary ability, well acquainted

with English, as well as with German, poetry. In an address,

                              SUNDAY THOUGHTS.               169

delivered at the distribution of Prizes at the College of Civil

Engineers at Putney, he alluded to the English Hexameter Trans

lations, and to the Verse Translations, and said, "they occupy the

foremost place amongst the translations ever attempted from the

German in point of fidelity and finish." As a specimen be quoted

the piece entitled The German Muse.

    In the later part of 1847 Dr Whewell printed for private

circulation a volume entitled Sunday Thoughts and other Verses.

The volume is in octavo, and contains 112 pages, besides the half

title and the list of contents on 4 pages. There is no preface,

and no explicit record of the date of issue, or of the author's

name: it is known to be Dr Whewell's from his correspondence.

The Sunday Thoughts, which stand first in the volume, con

sist of eight pieces of a devotional nature; there are also other

compositions of a serious cast, as a poem in blank verse, called

Gothic Architecture, a sonnet to Mrs Somerville, and a sonnet to

Miss W., that Miss \Vordsworth. But the greater part of the
        is
                      is,
volume     of an amusing character, including five Riddles, three

Charades, and translations of thirty-five short German Fables.

One piece  is  called Nugw Bartloviance, and alludes in a very

pleasing manner to the excavation in 1835 of some large barrows,

near the village of Bartlow, in Essex; this had been printed

before, at least in part, in a quarto form. One of the persons

most interested in the excavations was Mr John Gage, the Anti- I

quary; the curiosities obtained were deposited at Easton Lodge,

the seat of Viscount Maynard, the proprietor of the Bartlow Hills.

Dr Whewell introduced a Roman soldier remonstrating against

the disturbance of the remains in the barrow:

           But you'll soon discover, as I've notion,a a.
           That we are not pleased with our promotion;
           And from Easton's shelves you'll groaning catch,
           At the dark still hours of the midnight watch.

Dr Whewell sent            a  copy of his Sunday Thoughts and other

Verses to one of those who had been present at the excavation;

a few sentences may be taken from the reply     :

    "In reading them once again, the recollection of the joyous

and interesting meetings which were held here connected with the

170 LECTURE IN LONDON.

Barrow Exploration, was not unmixed with regret. Because it was

impossible to forget that poor Gage, whom you so well describe as

I` main cause of all this ill,' should have been the first, and believe

the only one of the party, who has been taken from us.

"But the Roman's prediction is still more extraordinary,

Easton having been burnt at midnight, and every vestige of the
                                                                                                                                                                  `

contents of the Barrows consumed."

     The last piece in the volume is called The Isle of the Sirens;
this had been printed before in a quarto form : it is in hexameters,

and consists of an adaptation of some passages of Carlyle's Char

tism, published in 1840.         attended  the meeting                                                          of the

    In August, 1848, Dr Whewell
British Association at Swansea.

In the year 1848 Dr Whewell published three things which

will be noticed in subsequent Chapters, namely, a review of

Longfellow's Evangeline in Fraser's hIagazine for March, a sermon

entitled, The Bulwarlcs and Palaces of Zion, and an edition of
Butler's Three Sermons on Human Nature. He was requested to

review Mrs Somerville's work on Physical Geography; but he
"Ideclined, saying,
                     have not been conversant of late with the

departments of literature and science to which it refers, and

should either have to read a good deal bearing upon the subject,

  or to write a very shallow and scanty review; and my labours at
* present lie mainly in other fields." The task which Dr Whewell

thus avoided was undertaken very appropriately by a great travel

ler--Sir Henry Holland : see his Recollections, page 248.

     Dr Whewell delivered a lecture at the Royal Institution in

London on Jan. 22, 1848, on the Use of Hypothesis in Science. A

rough draft of the lecture in manuscript is preserved, and also a

printed abstract of which probably taken from some Journal

of the Proceedings of the Institution. It easy to see from these

that the lecture coincided substantially with what Dr Whewell
of
                       of

                                 : it,
                                                  is

                                                                       a

                                                           of is
                                                                 of

                                                                                                            7,
published elsewhere see the Philosophy the Inductive Sciences,

2nd edition, Vol. II, pages 54...74; and the memoir on the

Transformation  Hypotheses in the History Science reprinted

from the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions in the Philosophy

Discovery. Mr Faraday said in letter on Nov.                                                                    1848, in

LECTURES IN LONDON.               17.1

reference to this lecture, " You must have done good, to all who

Iheard you, but can testify of myself that the truth you laid down,

that truth can more easily emerge from error than from confusion,

has been to me practically useful, and a source of continual plea

Isure in observing that, in other things besides those meddle

with, it is so."

The Count of Habsburg appeared on pages 232 and 233 of
Fraser's llIagazine for February, 1848. It consists of 12 stanzas,
Ieach of 10 lines.
                    quote the introductory notice: "This cele

brated Schillerian ballad has lately been set very expressively to

music by Andreas Homberg. The following translation preserves

the metre and the rhythm of the original, so as to be suited to

the same music." The piece was translated at the request of

the family of Sir G. B. Airy.  -

In the year 1849 Dr Whewell published some magazine arti

cles on the subject of English Hexameters, which will be noticed

hereafter in the Chapter on that subject. He examined Mr Mill's

Logic in a pamphlet entitled, Of Induction with special reference

to .Mr J. S. llIill's System of Logic; this was afterwards embodied

in the Philosophy of Discovery.

    A lecture was delivered by Dr Whewell at the Royal Insti
tution in London, on Jan. 19, 1849, on the Idea, of Polarity. A

printed abstract of the lecture is preserved, probably taken from

some Journal of Proceedings of the Institution. We may infer

that the lecture in great measure coincided with Book V of the

Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences.
    In the autumn Dr Whewell spent some time at Kreuznach

in Germany, as Mrs Whewell had been recommended by her
physicians to use the baths of that place. The same cause led in

subsequent years to visits to the same place, but without any

permanent benefit to Mrs Whewell.
   'On November 5, 1849, Dr Whewell delivered a lecture in

London before the Royal Institute of British Architects; the
subject was "The Gothic and After-Gothic of Germany." An
abstract of the lecture is in print in the Transactions of the
Institute, and occupies rather more than a quarto page: it is

apparent from this abstract that the lecture must have coincided

1 72 SUPERFIOIAL KNOWLEDGE.

in substance with a paper which Dr Whewell published sub
sequently in Volume VII of the Archwological Journal, entitled
"Remarks on the complete Gothic and After-Gothic Styles in

Germany."

    It remains to notice two magazine articles which belong to the

year 1849.

     Sacred Latin Poetry. This is a review of the selection of
Sacred Latin Poetry edited by Professor Trench, now Archbishop,
of Dublin; it was published in Fraser's Magazine for May, 1849,
pages 527...532. Dr Whewell gives translations into English
verse of some of the Latin pieces; these are very remarkable for
their fidelity and beauty. The papers of Dr Whewell contain in
addition a few lines which were omitted in the magazine, pro
bably for want of space. The Latin Hymn to the Holy Spirit has
been recently translated into English verse by Dean Stanley, in
Illacmillan's Magazine for June, 1873; it will be found interesting
to compare this version with that given by Dr Whewell.

     0n Mr .Macaulay's Praise of Superficial Knowledge. This is
a review of a pamphlet published by Professor J. D. Forbes under

the title of The Danger of Superficial Knowledge; the review
appeared in Fraser's .Magazine for August, 1849, pages 171...175.

In an address delivered at Edinburgh Mr Macaulay had ventured
to contradict the well-known line, "A little learning is a dangerous

thing." Professor Forbes held that the opinions of Mr Macaulay
were hurtful, at least to students, and gave a lecture to his class
on the danger of superficial knowledge: he submitted the lecture
in manuscript to Dr Whewell, who concurred, though not very
decidedly, in the author's opinion of the propriety of publication.
The review discusses the question raised by Macaulay, and in

the last paragraph alludes to the lecture by Professor Forbes.
The main point which Dr Whewell urges is that although more ,
may be known on a given subject at present than in preceding
times, yet it does not follow that any individual knows more than

the wise and great men of old. This was directed against

Macaulay's principle that the knowledge of former ages was in

significant compared with that of our own times. Perhaps the
review acquiesces in an extravagant estimate of the value of mere

ARCHITECTURE.  173

 knowledge without any specific reference to thinking and reasoning;

 this however was probably owing to the form which the con
 troversy had already taken, and not to any real doubt as to the

 relative importance of these elements. It is interesting to find

 the extent of knowledge in past and present times discussed by
 two persons, each so famous for encyclopaadic attainments as

 Macaulay and Whewell The conclusion of the review is very

 ingenious: "And we are too magnanimous and too consistent to
 be discontented, if any reader, convinced by our reasons, is still of

 opinion that a little of such reasoning is a dangerous thing, and

 should determine to draw from Professor Forbes's pages a deeper
 draught of antidote to the siren strains in which Mr Macaulay

sang his Encomium Moriaa."

      `In the year 1850 Dr Whewell contributed an article on trans

 lations of Herman and Dorothea to Fraser's Magazine for
 January; this will be noticed in the Chapter on English Hex

Iameters. The other publications of the year to which now

 proceed are two articles connected with Architecture, a continua

 tion of the work on Liberal Education, and a translation of a

 German novel.

     The Lamps of Architecture. This is a review of the well-known
 work by Mr Ruskin; it appeared in Fraser's Magazine for Feb.
 1850, pages 151...159. Dr Whewell commends the eloquence of
 the work, but does not admit the justness of all the opinions it con

 tains ; in particular, as befits a Cambridge man, he protests against

 the strong condemnation pronounced on King's College Chapel.
      Remarks on the Complete Gothic and After-Gothic Styles in

 Germany. This paper was published in No. 27 of the Archwological
Journal in 1850. Dr Whewell states that he formerly put forward

a theory of Gothic architecture as illustrated by the churches of
 Germany; and the doctrine had been regarded with favour by
eminent architectural authorities. He says: "The countenance

thus given to the theoretical or ideal view of architecture justifies

Ius, think, in attempting to apply it in other cases also, at least

in the way of trial." "Having before proposed a theory of the

formation of the Gothic style, I wish now to suggest the theory of

its dissolution."

 1 74 LIBERAL EDUCATION.

       The work on Liberal Education which first appeared in
  1845 reached a second edition in 1850. To the general title

 is now added Part I. Principles and Recent History. It is

  said in the preface that only slight and unimportant corrections
  are made in this Part. The second edition is in small octavo,
 and the Part I contains xx and 236 pages. Then follows

 Part II; to the general title is added Discussions and Changes,

  1840--1850: it contains viii and 1444 pages. The paging is
 distinct from that of Part I, but the numbering of the Articles
 .is continuous. Part II was issued shortly before the new edition

` of Part I.

      In Part II Dr W'hewell passes in review the changes 'which

  had taken place in Cambridge education and examinations during '
  the preceding ten years; many of these were such as he had
  himself warmly urged. He discusses at length some important
  matters, among them especially one which he did not commend,
  namely the emancipation of the classical students from the com
  pulsion of taking mathematical honours. He has an admirable
  sectiOn on The Great Classical Schools, and expresses the strongest
  conviction "that those who wish to improve English education

  ought to direct their efforts to those quarters much rather than

  the Universities, as points on which their action, if successful, will
 produce a much wider and deeper effect." A very curious
  passage occurs in Art. 368: Dr Whewell says that as far as

  he can judge boys in general are more slow in understanding any
  portion of Mathematics than they were thirty years ago; and con
  jectures a cause for this decline.

       Dr Whewell offered some criticisms on a mathematical work
  which had been recently published by Mr Harvey Goodwin, the

  present Bishop of Carlisle. The author replied in a pamphlet

 Ientitled Defence of certain portions of an Elementary Course of

  Mathematics. He maintains, think with complete success, the

  advantage of what may be called the modern treatment of Trigo
  nometry and Mechanics over the ancient which Dr Whewell pre
  ferred. The reply acknowledges the "kind tone and spirit of
  Dr Whewell's criticisms," and is itself of the same temperate

   character. There is an allusion to the work in the preface to the

                   GERMAN NOVEL.  175

Isecond edition of Part I, which as have said was issued some

little time after Part II.
It will be convenient to finish our account of the present work,
Iand so
         mention that in 1852 Dr Whewell issued Part 111;

to the general title is added The Revised Statutes. It is in small

octavo and contains viii and 100 pages. The paging is distinct,
but the Articles are numbered in continuation of those in

Part II. After long discussion a scheme of revised statutes

had been drawn up, and was about to be submitted to the

Senate for adoption or rejection; the publication was designed

by the author to assist the Senate in forming a correct judgment

on the matter. But the questions probably never excited much
attention elsewhere, and at Cambridge they have lost their '

interest in consequence of the legislation which followed the
                   It is remarkable to see how earnestly
Royal Commission.

Dr Whewell labours through nearly 20 pages to extol and sup

port an institution called the Caput, especially obnoxious to the

ardent academical reformers of the epoch, and now extinguished.

A few words occur incidentally in Art. 410 which involve such

a happy metaphor that even the general reader may like to

notice them. "When a man has, to use the expression familiar
in the University, thus `got up his subjects,' he can carry them

about with him, and set them down at a moment's warning...".

Examinations have rarely been so neatly condemned as by the

last phrase, which compares the passing through them with the

laying down of a burden, to the permanent relief of the bearer.

    The translation of the German novel is entitled, The Prw

fessor's Wi e, from the German of Berthold Auerbach. London,
John W. Parker, 1850. This is a small octavo volume, con

taining altogether 200 pages. The translation is most skilfully

executed; but English readers have access to so large a supply

of original fiction that it is difficult to engage their interest in

the comparatively inferior productions of foreign authors. The

story is very slight; an artist marries a country girl, takes

her to live in a town where he has an appointment as director

of a picture-gallery, neglects her, and finally comes home one

night intoxicated: whereupon she leaves him and goes back

1 76       GERMAN NOVEL.

to her mother. A friend of the artist, who is an assistant

librarian and is called the Collaborator, is present throughout

the narrative, and delivers various moral and philosophical

reflections. The manuscript and the proof-sheets of the trans
lation have been preserved; they conclude with the words

Trinity Lodge, Sep. 16, 1850, which were struck out in the im

pression.                                             .

     There are a few allusions to this publication in the correspond

ence of Dr Whewell. A distinguished prelate asked for a copy.
A lady whose own writings have gained her an honoured place

Iamong English novelists, says, " am deep in the interest of

the natural, exquisite little story, and heartin thank the trans

lator who has given me the power of reading it in strong simple

English." A German friend, with national profundity, discovered

what the author probably never contemplated--"One of the

features of the novel which strikes me as particularly good is
that sort of poetical parallelism inherent in the composition

between the causes of the fate both of Lorlie and Reinhard--she

being crushed by her marriage with him and he simultaneously

by his marriage--as if it were--with his new employment. For

Ithis reason think the title so very well chosen." A Swiss friend

wrote, "Mais j'avoue qu'en général je trouve cette vie rustique

que nous n'avons que de trop pres autour de nous d'un petit

intérét poétique. C'est difi'érent en Angleterre on le veritable

paysan d'autrefois a presque disparu."

    In the year 1851 Dr Whewell published a sermon entitled

Strength in Trouble, preached in Trinity College Chapel on

February 23; it will be noticed hereafter. He was requested

to preach in St Martin's in London, during the season of the

Great Exhibition, on the Connexion between Science and Faith;

but he does not seem to have complied with the request. He
attended the meeting of the British Association at Ipswich in

July, 1851.                 to  which  I  have     _  alluded,  was,  as  is

     The Great Exhibition,                      just

well known, the first example in England of these extensive
undertakings; the object of it was to bring together all that
could illustrate the recent progress and the actual condition of

LECTURE ON THE GREAT EXHIBITION.  177

arts and manufactures. His Royal Highness Prince Albert took
a warm interest in the scheme, and contributed greatly to the
success which attended it. After the close of the Exhibition

a course of Lectures was arranged by the Society of Arts, at the
suggestion of Prince Albert, for the purpose of drawing out the
most valuable lessons which the whole proceedings could suggest.
Dr Whewell began this course and his Lecture was published
under the following title: Inaugural Lecture, Nov. 26, 1851, the

Igeneral bearing of the Great Ewhibition on the progress of Art

and Science. The copy of this Lecture which have read forms

a pamphlet of 16 closely printed octavo pages. The Lecture
was also issued in a volume, with others, by various persons,

relating to the Exhibition.
     Dr Whewell illustrates in a very striking manner some points

which he had already noticed in his Philosophy of the Inductive
Sciences. Thus he shews that in general Art has preceded
Science; "Art was the mother of Science: the vigorous and
comely mother of a daughter of far loftier and serener beauty."
Nearly the same words as these occur in the lecturer's address to
the British Association at Cambridge in 1833. He lays stress too

on the lesson in Classification which was supplied by the method
of arranging the immense contents of the Exhibition. He con

trasts most impressively the case of a supposed traveller spending

his life in examining the arts of various countries of the world
with the inspection of the whole simultaneously, which the
Exhibition rendered practicable. He alludes to a remark with
which, as appears from one of his letters, he had been struck in
early life, "You have most of you probably heard of the careful
and economical critic, who proposed to reduce the extravagance
of the wish of the impatient separated lovers, that the gods [would

annihilate space and time; and who remarked that it would
answer the end desired if one of the two were annihilated."

     Dr Whewell seems to have been at first reluctant to undertake

the Lecture, for the following draft of a letter is preserved among

his papers; it was probably addressed to the Secretary of the
Council of the Society of Arts:

W. 12

178 LETTER RELATING TO THE LECTURE.

"Sir,                           "Tnmrrr Loner, CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 12, 1851.

       I" have had the honour to receive your letter in which

Iyou propose to me on the part of the Council of the Society of

Arts, that should on Wednesday the 26th deliver an address on

the tendencies of the age which  have  led  to  the  Great  Exhibition
and on its probable effects.             I
                                                                                   `

"I am deeply sensible of the honour which is done me by

such an application, and it is a matter of extreme regret to me

not to be able to attempt, however imperfectly, the very ani
mating task thus proposed to me. But my intercourse with the

eminent men who were put in motion and brought together by

the Exhibition, and who must be in a great measure the channels

and exponents of its influence on the nation and on mankind, has,

Iunfortunately for me, been so limited, that do not feel myself

capable of .tracing and estimating_ that influence in a worthy

manner.

   I"In returning this reply to the very flattering proposal of

the Council, am supposing that the suggestion of H. R. H.

Prince Albert, of which you speak, referred only to the class

of persons who should be requested to undertake the proposed

Ilectures, and not to myself in particular. The admiration which

  entertain for the whole of the conduct of H. R. H. relative to

Ithe Exhibition is such that could not easily bear to treat any

wish of his on that subject as impracticable."

    In the year 1852 we have the following matters to notice;

a Letter to Edwin Guest, Esq., a Letter to the author of Prole

gomena Logica, a speech at the opening of the New Grammar

School at Lancaster, the evidence contributed to the Blue-book

issued by the Royal Commission for the University of Cambridge,

and an obituary notice of the Marquis of Northampton. To these
I now proceed.                                           `

In Vol. V, pages 133. . .142 of the Proceedings of the Philological
Society, there is a letter from Dr Whewell to Edwin Guest, Esq,

Secretary to the Society. The letter is dated Trinity Lodge,

Cambridge, Feb. 6, 1852; it was read to the Society on Feb. 20.

The first paragraph explains the purport of the letter:

            ETYMOLOGICAL SOCIETY.            179

    "My dear Sir. You are aware that an Etymological Society
was formed at Cambridge, at a period a little previous to the ~

establishment of the Philological Society in London. Many of the

original members of the latter Society are aware of the existence

of the former, from having taken a leading part in its proceedings;
but some account of the plans and some specimens of the labours
of the Etymological Society of Cambridge may not be without
interest for the members of the Philological Society in general:

and the office of drawing up such a memorandum of the Cam

bridge Society appears to devolve upon me more especially, inas

much as the papers contributed by the members of that Society,

except so far as they have been used for publication, remain in

my hands."                         '

On the last page of the letter Dr Whewell says, "A consider

able portion of additional matter was printed from the MS. of the

author of the paper on English Orthography, but has not yet been

published." The author of this paper had been previously desig

nated by the letters J. C. H.: these denote Julius Charles Hare.

This additional matter was published in 1873 under the title of

Fragments of two Essays in'English Philology,...Macmillan and

Co., with an Advertisement by Professor J. E. B. Mayor.
    Dr Whewell says near the end of the letter: "I might mention

some others of the speculations of our Etymological Society; but

Ithough, as have said, they were very instructive for us at that

period, they have been superseded in a great degree by what has

been done since by philologers, and especially by the members of

Ithe Philological Society. In particular we had a grand, but fear

hopeless, scheme of a new Etymological Dictionary of the English

language; of which one main feature was to be that the three
great divisions of our etymologies, Teutonic, Norman, and Latin,

were to be ranged under separate alphabets." Some notes on the

etymologies of words beginning with the letters A, D, E, F, H

remain among Dr VVhewell's collection of papers: these were

doubtless drawn up by members of the Etymological Society for

use in the proposed dictionary.

    A letter to the Author of the Prolegomena Logica, by the Author

of the History and Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences. This

                                      12--2

180 LANCASTER GRAMMAR sonoon

letter to Mr Mansel, afterwards Dean of St Paul's, is an octavo

pamphlet of 18 pages, besides the title. It is dated Trinity

College, Sept. 20, 1852. Perhaps it was printed for private circu

lation only. It is substantially reproduced in the Philosophy of

Discovery, Chapter XXVIII. The parts not reproduced are the
introductory note, and the first, second, and fourth paragraphs
beginning on page 3 and ending on page 5. The note on page
334, and the first note on page 335 of the Philosophy of Discovery
were not in the original letter. The most important part of
the letter is that in which the writer tries to remove a misunder

standing of what he had said in his works : see the letter, page 10,

or the Philosophy of Discovery, page 338.
     The public opehing of the New Grammar School at Lancaster

took place on Sep. 10, 1852. Dr Whewell was present, and so
also were his old friends and correspondents, Mr Morland and
Dr Mackreth. Two speeches were delivered by Dr Whewell, of
which a newspaper report has been preserved. In the introductory

part of the first speech Dr Whewell said, "...I am, as the Mayor

has stated, an old pupil of the Grammar School of Lancaster, and

I Iowe to the instruction there received, and to the kindness of

my ever respected master, Mr Rowley, the commencement of a

Icareer of success in life, for which cannot but be thankful."

     Dr Whewell insisted strongly on the advantages of a classical

education; he spoke also of mathematics and recommended early
familiarity with Arithmetic, Practical Geometry, and Mensuration.
He recorded the opinion that in the Universities the principle
of examinations had been carried too far. He remarked that he
was not "disposed to admire as a general class what are called

self-taught classes." He continued, "A certain vigour there may

be, but that is often far more than balanced by a corresponding
quantity of self-opinion and conceit. There is an expression that

appears to me equally acute and wise, on the part of Opie, the

painter, when somebody was praised to him as a self-taught person:

`Depend upon it,' he said, `a self-taught person is a person taught

by a very ignorant man."'

    In his second speech Dr Whewell made an allusion to himself
and his own works: " With regard to the occasion that calls us

UNIVERSITY COMMISSION.  I81

together on this day, most assuredly there is no one who' can
have more reason to think with kindness and gratitude of the

IGrammar School of Lancaster than have. It was the first step

in a career which has placed me, by the favour of my sovereign,
in a situationwhich is the first situation the whole empire pre
sents to a person fond of literature, and desirous of employing

Ihimself upon it. Upon literature and science have undoubtedly
Iemployed a large portion of my time, and hope may say, not

with any personal egotism, but with the egotism of a Lancaster

I Iman, that have so selected the subjects on which have em--

ployed myself, and so treated them, that it may not be out of the

way for the writers of future biographical dictionaries to enquire

where the author of certain works was born. Certainly, as far as
any one can accept the testimony of foreign countries of the

present day, as representing the testimony of other ages, there

has been something of that kind of evidence that such questions
may be asked; to refer only to such events as have happened
within the last few months; when no less an illustrious person

than Humboldt, at his age of 83, came over from Potsdam to
Berlin, in order to express as he said, the gratitude he felt for

Iwhat had done."

    In 1850 Royal Commissions were appointed to enquire into

the State, Discipline, Studies, and Revenues of the Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge. The Cambridge Commissioners were the

Bishop of Chester, Dean Peacock, Sir J. Herschel, Sir J. Romilly,

and Professor Sedgwick; they issued in 1852 a Report together

with the Evidence and an Appendix. Dr Whewell regarded the

Commission as an unwarranted and undesirable intrusion into the

affairs of the University; but he did not decline to answer various
questions which were addressed to him in his official capacity.
Accordingly communications from him will be found in the fol
lowing pages of the Evidence, 99._..102, 203...209, 271...274,
292, 411%...1119, 425. These relate to the Professorship of Moral
Philosophy, to the regulations of Trinity College, and to the
general subjects of Discipline, Expense, Private Tuition and Ex
aminations; the opinions expressed are the same as Dr Whewell

had published in his book on a Liberal Education.

182 MARQUIS or NORTHAMPTON.

    An obituary notice of the Marquis of Northampton occurs in

pages 117...120 of Vol. VI. of the Abstracts of the Papers com
municated to the Royal Society of London. This was drawn up by
Dr Whewell, and is an interesting memorial of one who occupied
for ten years the ofiice of President of the Royal Society, and
gained universal respect by his attainments and character. The

notice concludes thus: "It is difficult to abstain from dwelling

longer on Lord Northampton's admirable gifts and accomplish
ments, and still more, on his virtues. He was full of kindness

and benevolence for all who came under his notice, and seemed to

be absolutely incapable of injustice or unfairness; and though a
most clear-sighted judge of intellectual, scientific and artistical

excellence, was with difficulty, if at all, moved to harshness to

wards shallow and petulant pretensions. He was zealous for the
promotion of art as well as science in his native country; and
even in the last days of his life his thoughts and his pen were

engaged on a plan connected with that object."

    In 1853 Dr Whewell published an edition of the work of
Grotius De Jare Belli et Pacis, with notes and an abridged
translation. The preparation of this work had occupied him

during the months he spent in 1852 with Mrs Whewell at the

baths of Kreuznach. It will be noticed together with the other

contributions to Moral Science. An article on English Hexameters
published in the North British Review will be noticed in the
Chapter on that subject. The months spent at Kreuznach in
1853 were occupied in the composition of the Pluralitg of Worlds,
which was published towards the end of the year; to this work
the next Chapter will be devoted.

     In 1853 Dr Whewell and Professor Sedgwick were requested

to act as judges for awarding the valuable Burnett Prizes for two
Essays on Natural Theology; they both however declined the
oflice, and it was then undertaken by Professor Baden Powell and
Mr Isaac Taylor.

 _ One short paper has now to be mentioned. Farther Remarks

on the proposal, That an ordinary Degree of BA. shall be given

on the ground of an examination in Classics, without requiring any
other examination, except the Previous Examination: occasioned by

UNIVERSITY PAPER-                             183

"A Reply" to previous Remarks on that proposal. This consists
of 5 small pages; it is signed W. W. April 26, 1853. It relates

Ito some of the University legislation of the period with respect to
Examinations, and is of no general interest.  have not seen the

previous Remarks, nor the Reply to them.

                    CHAPTER XII.

                                PLURALITY OF WORLDS.

TOWARDS the end of 1853 a book was published anonymously

entitled, Of the Plurality of Worlds: an Essay. It is an octavo

volume; the title and prefatory matter occupy viii pages, and the
text 279 pages. The title is not very suggestive of the nature of
the work, which is directed against the doctrine of the Plurality of
Worlds: it will be convenient to speak of the book briefly as the
Essay. In the early part of 185% appeared a Dialogue on the

Plurality of Worlds, being a Smlemt to the Essay on that sub

ject; this consists of answers to the arguments which had been
urged in conversation, in writing, or in print, since the Essay was
published. The Dialogue consists of 55 pages in small octavo,

ending with an extract from a sermon by Professor Blunt. A

second edition of the Essay was published in the summer of 1854;
this has a new preface as well as the original preface: the Dia
logue is reproduced with some additions, and is awkwardly placed
first in the text; it retained this position in the next two editions.

All the editions except the first are in small octavo size. The

title and prefatory matter of the second edition occupy xvi pages,
and the text 395 pages. The preface gives a good summary of
 the state of the question discussed in the Essay. The third
 edition of the Essay was published in the autumn of 1854 ; it con
sists of viii and 407 pages, and contains a new preface as well as
 those to the two preceding editions. The Dialogue is increased
by about half a page, in which a supposed interlocutor desig

nated as A0 draws attention to a second article on the Essay
which appeared in the Westminster Review. The fourth edition
of the Essay was published early in 1855; it consists of xii and

5111 pages, and contains a new preface, as well as those to the three

                          l                  185

CHALMERS AND COLERIDGE.

preceding editions. The fifth edition of the Essay was published

in 1859. The title and prefatory matter occupy xii pages; these

include the preface to the first edition on four pages, and the

preface to the fifth edition on a single page. The text of the

Essay follows on 318 pages; then we have a passage from Plato

with a translation, the preface to the second edition dated June 23,

1854, the preface to the third edition dated Oct. 10, 1854, and

the preface to the fourth edition dated Feb. 2, 1855; next comes

the Dialogue on pages 337...403, and finally, on pages 404...416,

an answer to an article in the Edinburgh Review, reprinted from

the Saturday Review of Nov. 3, 1855. The passage from Plate

with the translation, and the reply to the Edinburgh Review, do

not occur in the previous editions. The Dialogue in the fifth

edition is printed a little more closely than previously, so that

Isome space is gained. All the prefaces, except the first, are

curious, from the fact that the personal pronoun is freely used,
Iwhile no name is subscribed.
                               shall always cite the fifth edition
Iwhen have occasion to refer to a page of the Essay or Dialogue.
I shall begin with some remarks on the Essay and Dialogue,

   and then notice the principal reviews which they called forth;

I- next shall advert to the opinions expressed on the subject by

some of Dr Whewell's correspondents, and finally give an account

of some unpublished matter relating to it.

At the date of the publication of the Essay the belief in the

doctrine of the Plurality of Worlds was nearly universal. Men of

science readily accepted a pleasing hypothesis which was not

positively contradicted by evidence from their special studies.

Some theologians may have hesitated; but against them could be

placed the high authority of Dr Chalmers, whose Astronomical

Discourses had supported the popular persuasion with impressive

declamation. A flippant remark in Coleridge's Table Talk, Vol. II,

p. 293, is almost a solitary expression of a contrary opinion.

"I never could feel any force in the arguments for a plurality of

worlds, in the common acceptance of that term. A lady once asked

I Ime--`VVhat then could be the intention in creating so many
great bodies, so apparently useless to us?'  said did not know,

except perhaps to make dirt cheap." The Essay then proposed to,

1 86 THE DIALOGUE.

overthrow a common and well cherished belief. Although it was

published anonymously it was soon ascribed to Dr Whewell; and

his letters shew that he admitted the authorship to many of his

friends. The period was little suited to literary enterprise owing to

the Crimean war into which the country was drifting, yet the Essay

excited considerable interest and attention almost immediately.

It was reprinted in America with a preface by Professor Hitchcock.

    In the margin of a copy of the Dialogue preserved among the

papers of Dr Whewell the names of various persons whose opinions

are represented are indicated by initials; in most of these cases

the meaning of the initials is quite clear, and there can be now no

Iimpropriety in indicating the sources of the objections to which
Dr Whewell replies.  will refer to the fifth edition of the work,

and state the page and the line at which the initials are placed:

Sir R. Murchison, page 339 line 8; Professor De Morgan, page 340

line 1; Sir James Stephen, page 343 line 3, page 380 line 30;

Sir H. Holland, page 3415 line 20, page 350 line 24, page 354

line 1, page 358 line 6, page 374! line 10; Sir J. Herschel,

page 357 line 18, page 382 line 21; Professor `J. D. Forbes, page

358 line 25, page 359 line 20, page 360 line 13 and line 26, page

361 line 25, page 362 line 13, page 377 line 26, page 385 line

2; Westminster Review, page 366 line 15, page 370 line 17, page

373 line 1. In all the preceding cases there is evidence which

renders the meaning of the initials certain; in a few other cases

there may be some doubt, namely Professor Sedgwick, page 353

line 13; Mr James Garth Marshall, page 357 line 7; Rev.

Richard Jones, page 375 line 1. Also at page 357 line 1 is

placed Mr H, and at page 383 line 22 is placed R. M. M. ; the
meaning of the former is not known, the latter denotes one who

still survives but bears another name.

Of the ability shewn in the Essay there can be but one opinion;

many persons have pronounced it the cleverest of the many works

of the author; the style is vigorous and poetical, resembling that

of the Bridgewater Treatise or of the most finished parts of the

History and Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, and contrasting
strongly with that adopted in the Elements of Morality. The
argument from geology is conducted with great skill, and although

                       SIR J. HERSCHEL'S OPINION.         187

it appeared that some hints of the same kind had been previously
thrown out by others, among whom Dr Whewell, in his Dialogue,

names Hugh Miller and Professor Birks, yet he was not aware of

this until after his own publication. But on a subject which

cannot be settled by argument the analogies and conjectures which
may be produced will influence various minds in various ways; and

those who have not arrived at a decision for themselves will look

with interest on the opinions recorded by able men. Perhaps no

person was better qualified than Sir J. Herschel for appreciating

the various considerations, physical, metaphysical, and theological,

which were brought into discussion. He says in the Proceedings
of the Royal Society, Vol. XVI, pages LX and LXI: "The essay on
the `Plurality of Worlds' (attributed to him, though published

anonymously), can hardly be regarded as expressing his deliberate

opinion, and should rather be considered in the light of a jeu

ol'esprit, or possibly, as has been suggested, as a lighter composition,

on the principle of `audi alteram partem,' undertaken to divert

Ihis thoughts in a time of deep distress. Though it may have had

the effect have heard attributed to of preventing a doctrine
                       it,

                                 `

                                       it
from crystallizing into a dogma,' the argument advances will

hardly be allowed decisive preponderance against the general im

pression which the great facts of astronomy tend so naturally to

produce." It will be seen from this quotation that Sir J. Herschel

   rather against Dr Whewell than with him in the controversy;
I is
       isIthe suggestion however that the Essay can hardly be regarded as

                 is aexpressing its author's deliberate opinion seems to me inadmissible.

We may refer to the work itself for evidence on this point, for
instance on page 401 we read: "As to myself, the views which

have at length committed to paper have long been in my mind.

The convictions which they involved grew gradually deepen..."

There                striking passage on page 281 which seems eminently

sincere; and the Chapter on the Argument from Design of the
                       of
same character.
                                   I
                                                      is
There not much evidence as to the history of Dr Whewell's

interest in the subject of the Plurality Worlds, but will state
all that have discovered. An old note-book records that he

read Fontenelle's celebrated work at an early period, but adds no

188 SIR H. HOLLAND'S OPINION.

Iopinion respecting it.  have quoted on page 70 some sentences

from the Bridgewater Treatise bearing on the subject; they seem to

me in tone consistent with the doctrines of the Essay, but several

reviewers appealed to them as indicating on the part of the author

a complete change of opinion. A very interesting passage occurs

in the Second Memoir on the Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy

read to the Cambridge Philosophical Society, Nov. 13, 1848; it is

reproduced in the Philosophy of Discovery, pages 304, and 305.
Dr Whewell there briefly contrasts two theories of the Universe,

and while admitting that there are difficulties in both, considers

that they are less in that theory which was in fact afterwards

maintained in the Essay. Perhaps the opposition which this work

encountered stimulated him to seek for arguments in its favour
and increased his confidence in it.

    Sir H. Holland in his Recollections of Past Life, pages 240 and
241, alludes to his intercourse with Dr Whewell; and makes some

remarks on the Essay; the letter of criticism which he records that

he wrote has not been found among Dr Whewell's papers. Sir

H. Holland says, "It was easy to praise the great ability and inge
nuity of the work while rejecting a conclusion defensible chiefly, if

not solely, from the impossibility of ever proving the contrary."

The venerable critic, speaking of the Essay a few weeks before
his death, said, "it is the most brilliant of all Dr Whewell's

writings, but the theory is false :" he also expressed the opinion

that Dr Whewell was not convinced by his own arguments.

One question of interest is how far do the Astronomical re

searches of the last twenty years confirm or oppose the views of

Dr Whewell. Probably the answer must be that the additional

evidence is partly in one direction, and partly in the contrary.
Such is in substance the opinion of Sir H. Holland given in a. note

on page 241 of his book. Thus on the one hand he allows that

it seems established by spectroscopic observations that many of

the nebulae are really gaseous in their nature; this is curious

because in the Dialogue the speaker who on page 345 objects to

the "zeal for reducing nebulae to a state of luminous vapour" is

according to Dr Whewell's indication Sir H. Holland himself. On

the other hand, as Sir H. Holland proceeds to say in his note,

RECENT OPINIONS.                                                                           1 89

"recent discoveries, identifying many of the material constituents of

the sun and stars with those of our globe, have much more direct

bearing against his hypothesis." The current literature of the

time supplies confirmations of both clauses of Sir H. Holland's

judgment. Thus on the one hand with respect to nebulae we are

told that they are apparently nothing but floating masses of very

rare nitrogen gas. Academy, Jan. 10, 1874, page 42. On the

other hand we read, "It would be absurd to regard as a reasonable

hypothesis now, either the theory of Whewell that Jupiter consists

mainly of water, or the alternative suggestion of Brewster, that

the substance of the giant-planets may be of the nature of pumice

stone." Journal of Science, Jan. 1874, page 18. The subject
is discussed by Mr Proctor in his Other Workls than ours; the

Plurality of Worlds studied             under  the  lig'ht of Recent                       Scientific
                                     '                                                  -

Researches.

In the early editions of the Essay the critics detected a few

.mistakes and inconsistencies. As an example of the former it

`may be mentioned that the distance of the Moon from the Earth

was put at a month's railway journey; this was afterwards

extended to six months. As an example of the latter some state

ments as to the size of Mars compared with that of the Earth

may be taken: page 7, "Mars...nearly as large ;" page 214, "his
mass is so much smaller;" and page 215, " Mars is much smaller."

In quoting the well-known speech to Jessica which occurs in the

illerchant of Venice Dr Whewell adopted the reading patterns in
the early editions; his attention was drawn to it in correspon

dence, and he changed it to the more usual reading patines.
    In the Dialogue Dr Whewell quotes with strong approbation a

passage from a sermon by Professor Blunt. Those who heard the

preacher, so justly revered, still remember after the lapse of five

and twenty years the great impression which the sermon pro

duced. The first edition of the Dialogue finished with this ex

tract; it is on some account a`matter of regret that owing to the

addition of new matter this arrangement was altered in the sub--

sequent editions, for the transition is unpleasant from the doctrine

of the communion of saints, so earnestly set forth by the preacher,

to the severe remarks made upon the Essay by Sir D. Brewster.

190 SIR D. BREws'rER.

     Rarely in recent times has a book received so much attention
from reviewers as the Essay. Dr Whewell himself formed a large
collection of the articles which were published about his book,
though unfortunately in some cases the title of the periodical

I Iin which the article originally appeared has not been preserved.
   shall give a brief notice of all the reviews which have seen
that bear on the subject, beginning with those which are

decidedly opposed to Dr Whewell's views, and passing on to

others which may be described as neutral or even favourable.
     An article occupying 44 pages was .published in the North

British Review for May, 1854:; it was written by Sir D. Brewster,
and is a most impetuous attack on the Essay. The article is
unworthy of the writer's great and just reputation; the science is
not unfrequently at fault, and the rhetoric degenerates into ex
travagance. Even those who agree with his opinions must regret
the tone in which they are expressed, and especially the depre
ciating terms in which he often speaks of his eminent antagonist.
Passionately however as Sir D. Brewster loved the unseen in
habitants of the Sun, the planets, and the stars, there was one
object, terrestrial indeed but perhaps equally visionary, which
stood apparently still higher in his regard, and for which he had
hoped and pleaded during a long career, namely, to use a current
formula, the endowment of original research. He quotes a passage
from the Essay, page 314', which may be regarded as favourable to
this cherished scheme, and seems in consequence half disposed to
forgive the author for depopulating the universe; he concludes his
review thus, " we now part with him in better humour, as a dis
tinguished philosopher--a profound thinker--an eloquent writer--
a manly philanthropist--and a successful prophet." Dr Whewell
replied to this review in pages 388...400 of the Dialogue.
Sir D. Brewster expanded his review into a book entitled More

 Worlds than One, the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian; this passed through several editions. Longer con

sideration of the subject rendered the author more bold; for while
in the Review he had hesitated to ascribe inhabitants to the Sun,

in the book he has no misgivings, and suggests that they may
find employment in watching for the opportunities of astronomical

           M. BABINET.     191

observation which will be afforded them by the occasional dis

ruption of the bright covering of the Sun, when to earthly eyes
spots are produced. Yet this is perhaps the most consistent form in

which the doctrine of the Plurality of Worlds can be maintained;

for a person who surrenders the Sun must in like manner give up

the fixed stars, and has then at his disposal only the real planets,

and the hypothetical planets which are believed to circulate round

the fixed stars; he can therefore not advance the argument that
it is intolerable to suppose so much room wasted that might be

peopled, when he himself supposes the vastest globes to be

desolate.               I

An article by M. Babinet entitled De la Pluralite' des Mondes

occurs on pages 365...385 of the Revue des dena- Mondes for Jan.

15, 1855; it treats of the works of Dr Whewell and Sir D.

Brewster. Dr Whewell refers to it in the preface to the fourth
edition of the Essay as by a " writer whose authority is deservedly
high on matters of physical science ;" but he adds, "He has, how
ever, in this instance chosen rather to play with the subject than

Ito discuss it seriously, giving us to understand that such was the

tone that suited the circles for which he writes." But do not see

in the article where M. Babinet gives us to understand this.

According to the opinion of M. Babinet it is probable, and almost

certain, that the planets which surround the Sun and the stars are

inhabited, like the Earth, by all degrees of intelligence and all

varieties of organisation, but we have no reason to suppose the

Sun and the satellites to be inhabited. A statement which he

makes as to Protestant sermons will probably not be confirmed by

modern English experience. "Quoique M. Brewster ne soit pas,

comme son antagoniste, un théologien de profession, les con~

vcnances religieuses n'y sont guere invoquées moins souvent, ce

qui n'étonnera pas, lorsqu'on saura que dans leurs sermons les

prédicateurs protestans ont l'habitude de développer beaucoup de

theses appartenant aux sciences d'observation; on cite dans ce

genre un sermon du docteur Bentley, qui recut de Newton

lui-méme les instructions nécessaires pour le composer."

_ An article by Professor H. J. S. Smith entitled The Plurality of

 Worlds occurs on pages 105...155 of the Oxford Essays for 1855 ;

192 PROFESSOR H. J. s. SMITH.

it treats of the works of Dr Whewell and Sir D. Brewster. This

article is decidedly adverse to the views of the Essay, while ac

Itknowledging the literary excellencies and power of the work.

is by far the ablest of the unfavourable reviews, and is especially
deserving attention because the writer was one of the few who
possessed scientific and philosophical knowledge at all commen
surate with Dr Whewell's, and displayed the judicial calmness
and fairness which we naturally expect to find in an analysis
attested by the name of the author rather than in the irresponsible
effusions of anonymous critics. The writer makes a very ingenious
suggestion as to the choice of an umpire in the controversy--"Cue
is continually tempted to appeal from the judgment of the
Essayist, in his character of a victorious disputant, to his judgment
as a philosopher and a man of science." Dr Whewell was very
fond of discussion, and it is natural to conjecture that in his Essay
he was arguing rather than deciding; nothing however has been
found among his papers to suggest any wavering in his belief that
the Earth alone among stars and planets is the abode of intel--
lectual, moral and religious creatures. Professor Smith gives up
one position as indefensible--" The Moon we are compelled to sur
render at discretion; and we own ourselves, on this point, unable

to withstand the desolating rhetoric of the Essay." It is certainly

remarkable that the only celestial object which is near enough
for decisive examination by our telescopes should refuse so de

cidedly to countenance the Pluralists; for if analogy would have

placed rational inhabitants in any one of these objects it would
naturally be on the Moon, so near the Earth, and apparently in
circumstances of light and heat so similar to our own. Some
intrepid Pluralists indeed have undertaken to people the unseen
side of the Moon; it would seem that they hold the merit of
giving light to the Earth to be of suficient importance to suspend
the operation of the general principle that where there is matter
to uphold them inhabitants must exist, while on the side of the
Moon which does not benefit the Earth the principle again revives
and prevails. Dr Whewell alludes to this point in the Essay,
page 412. The Reviewer observes with respect to the Dialogue:

"In the Dialogue at the beginning of the Essay, the earlier letters

    EDINBURGH REVIEW.                                                                                                              1 93

of the alphabet, who appear as objectors, conduct themselves so

much like simpletons that we wonder at their being thought

worthy of so long an interview with the enlightened Z." But

most of these earlier letters represent names of eminent distinction.

In a slight sketch of the history of opinions on the subject the

reviewer states that while men of science were usually in favour of

Plurality theologians took the contrary side.            .

      An article on pages li3.':5...`l70 of the Edinburgh Review for
' October 1855 discusses the subject. Besides the works of Dr

Whewell and Sir D. Brewster, two others are placed at the head

of the article, namely Essays on the Spirit of the Inductive Philo
sophy, the Unity of Worlds, and the Philosophy of Creation, by
Professor Baden Powell, and A few more Words on the Plurality
of lVorlds, by Captain Jacob, Astronomer to the East Indian

Company. Passages are quoted by the reviewer from the latter

two works against Dr Whewell's opinions. The spirit of the

article is eminently one common to many of those which take the

same view; the doctrine of the Plurality-of W'orlds is treated as

if it were in possession of the field, and although it can shew no

title--deeds whatever, yet it is to be upheld until the rival doctrine

can exhibit incontrovertible proof of its claim. Dr Whewell

replied to this review in an article in the Saturday Review of

Nov. 3, 1855, which is reproduced in pages 404:...416 of the

Essay. One point to which Dr Whewell alludes on his page 409

is treated in so strange a manner by the Edinburgh reviewer that

it deserves to be noticed. The Essay called attention to the very

short time during which man had lived on the earth compared

with other animals. The reviewer says, "Sir David Brewster has,

however,...pointed out that the fact is not as stated. ...For aught

that is known, mankind may endure on the [earth until the

tables are turned upon its brute predecessors..." It is obvious

that Sir D. Brewster cannot contradict the fact as at present

stated; he can only conjecture" that hereafter the circumstances
may be different. The objection, such as it had been antici
I
                                                                                         is,

                                                                    it

                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                   3
pated in the last section of Chapter XII. of the Essay.

have not seen the publication by Captain Jacob which the

Edinburgh Reviewer cites. One extract from               seems to me

w.

1 9 4 WESTMINSTER REVIEW.

unsatisfactory. Dr Whewell is represented as beginning with the

most distant, or at least the most obscure bodies, and "descending

by degrees to the more and more distinct, he attempts to drag

a little of the obscurity with him in his downward progress."

But this quite overlooks the. fact that Dr Whewell's treatment
of some of the nearer bodies, the Moon for instance, is altogether

independent of what he says respecting the nebulae. To Captain

Jacob is due a very inconclusive argument drawn from the theory

of chances, of which Dr Whewell disposes on his page 407.

    A notice of the Essay is given on pages 591...594 of the

W'estminster Review for April, 1854; it is quite adverse to Dr

Whewell, and especially blames him for inaccuracy in the quota

tion of a passage which he ascribed to Professor Owen. Dr
Whewell replied in his Dialogue. In pages 242...245 of the
Westminster Review for July, 1854, the Dialogue is noticed, and

the charge with respect to the inaccurate quotation is again urged.

Dr Whewell replied to this in subsequent editions of the

Dialogue; see pages 366...372. The Westminster Review of
July, 1854, on pages 245 and 246 notices the book of Sir D.

Brewster, and as unfavourably as the Essay and the Dialogue.

An article entitled The Plurality of lVorlds occurs on pages
1...12 of Fraser's llIagazine for March, 1854; it wasiwritten,
I J.believe, by Professor
                           D. Forbes. The reviewer obviously

leans to the side of the Pluralists, though he does not explicitly

go further than suggesting inhabitants for Mars and Venus;
probably his strong regard and admiration for Dr Whewell placed
some restraint on the exhibition of his own opinions. After
quoting the description that Dr Whewell gave of the very

unattractive population which he thought alone adapted for
Jupiter, the reviewer says, "Alas! for the imagined seat of

higher intelligences; alas! for the glories of the most majestic
planet of our heavens, the stern will of the ruthless destroyer

has dissipated with no sparing hand the threads on which we

hung the network of our imagery. N o unsentimental housemaid

ever made with relentless broom a cleaner sweep of a geometrical

cobweb!" The reviewer alludes to the case which is mentioned

in the Dialogue, page 377, of a murderer who was'held to be

PROFESSOR J. D. FORBES.  195

insane on the ground that he believed the Sun to be inhabited,
and adds the extraordinary reflexion, " Now this curious history
 may be quoted as a strong proof of the instinctive belief of man in

the diffusion, if not of his species, at least of his analogues." That

 is to say, the instinctive belief of man is inferred from the belief

 of one individual, though opposed to that of all his countrymen.

It would be difficult to find a more striking example of a fault,

traces of which may be seen even in Butler's Analogy--that of

appealing to evidence on one side of a question and neglecting
to observe that it is overborne by a vast preponderance of evidence
on the other side. Moreover, the most ardent Pluralist might

shrink from peopling the Sun with analogues of a madman or

murderer. An interesting statement is made by the reviewer in
a note, namely that the late Dr Chalmers was really the first
who " happily reconciled the narrative of Moses with the demon

strated truths of science," by admitting the existence of a period
of indefinite extent between the second and the third verses of

the book of Genesis. The reviewer draws especial attention to

the eleventh chapter of the Essay--that on the Argument from
Design--as " probably the most interesting and original" in the
book, and written with "great vigour and eloquence." This

chapter was warmly praised by many of the reviewers of the

Essay. It is stated in the beginning of the article, that "the

preponderance of belief in all ages has been in favour of the
Plurality of Worlds." Dr Whewell refers to this in his Dialogue,
pages 377...380, where he maintains the contrary opinion.

      The Essay is reviewed on pages 50...82 of the Christian
Remembrancer for 1855. The article is written in a strain of

banter which is very tedious; though it is decidedly adverse to
Dr Whewell's opinions, it is also severe on Sir D. Brewster for
the incompetent manner in which he has defended what it holds

to be the right side. The review is almost unique in blaming
the author of the Essay for "marvellous inelegance in the use
of English," and for "heavy writing." The writer is an ultra
Pluralist; for he says, "Had there been no such science as

Astronomy, pious thought might have engendered the wish,

the hope, the opinion, that there might be other worlds." On

                                                                                        13--2

196 VARIOUS REVIEWS.

his page 73 he gives the following passage with the marks
indicative of a quotation: "we are compelled by geological
evidences to admit that a destitution of creatures who can know,

obey, and worship God, has existed upon the earth..." In the
margin of his copy of the review Dr Whewell has recorded
against the words destitution of creatures, " no phrase of mine,"
and refers to his Chapter XI, section 21, for confirmation. The
reviewer thinks this Chapter very striking and (as an effort of

argument) worth all the rest of the book.

    An article entitled Modern Philosophy: The Plurality of

Worlds, occurs on pages 129...137 of the Rambler for August,
1854. This is a review of Sir D. Brewster's book, and strongly

condemns the way in which the subject is there treated; though
holding it probable that the planets are inhabited. The reviewer
regrets the light esteem in which 'metaphysical subjects are
regarded by the great majority of our learned men, and con
cludes thus : " Metaphysical science is conversant with the centre,

where all the rays meet, physical science with the surface, where
all are separate; human knowledge, in proportion as it is ex
Clusively physical, is superficial: in proportion as any knowledge
is superficial, is it absolutely powerless when it applies itself to
things which do not lie on its own surface."

     The Essay is reviewed in pages 407...425 of the Christian
 Observer for June, 1854. The reviewer, without expressing any
strong belief in the doctrine that other worlds are inhabited,

thinks that the arguments of the Essay against this are quite

inconclusive. At the same time he bears witness to the excel
lencies of the book, and draws a parallel between it and Warbur
ton's Divine Legation of Moses.

     An article entitled The Plurality of Worlds occurs on pages
22...28 of the Evangelical Repository for Sept. 1854; it reviews
the Essay and the Dialogue. The writer of the article sent a
copy to Dr Whewell with a note in which he gave his name and
address, and stated that he had also reviewed Sir D. Brewster's
reply in the same number of the Evangelical Repository. He
holds that the Sun and the planets are inhabited, but gives up

the planetoids.

                  VARIOUS REVIEWS.                    1 97

A letter by Dr Croly addressed to the editor of the Standard

occupies about two columns of the length of an octavo page;

it maintains that the planets are inhabited. An allusion occurs
in it to a former letter by the writer on the same subject.

     An article entitled More Worlds than One occupies seven

columns of the length of an octavo page; it is a review of Sir

D. Brewster's book, and speaks of the author -as "our great

countryman." A singular remark is made with respect to Dr

Whewell's statement that a man weighing 150 lbs. on the Earth's

surface would weigh nearly 400 lbs. on the surface of Jupiter.
The reviewer charges him with neglecting to notice the admirable

contrivance by which the weight is kept within this limit, when

if Jupiter had been smaller in size or more dense it would have

been much greater. This is said to be "an example rather

of special pleading than of sober and impartial investigation
Iand inference."
                  am unable to name the periodical in which this

' article first appeared, as the copy preserved among Dr Whewell's

papers has been separated from the pages with which it was

originally connected; the same remark applies to various other

Ishort articles which have to notice.

A series of four articles entitled Are there more Worlds than

One? occupies about thirty-four columns of the length of an
octavo page, and forms a review of the works of Dr Whewell

and Sir D. Brewster; they were probably published in the

Mechanics' Magazine. The writer is very diffuse, and it is diffi

cult to say what is his main purpose. He seems to hold that

Dr Whewell departs from the "spirit of the Inductive method,"

and that his reasoning is "inconsistent with every principle of

, a sound inductiv'e logic." The judgment passed on Sir D. Brewster

is equally unfavourable.

    The Testimony of the Heavens to their Creator. A Lecture

to the Ennis/cillen Young Men's Christian Association, delivered

Feb. 3, 1857, by the Rev. Josiah Crampton, AM. This is in 31

small octavo pages. Without alluding to any controversy the

writer holds that the heavenly bodies are inhabited.

     Thoughts, in verse, on the Plurality of lVorlds. Bylthe Rev.
John Peat, MA. 1856. This consists altogether of 15 octavo

1 9 8 PROFESSOR oms'rnn.

Ipages; it is dedicated to Sir D. Brewster, and leans to his opinions.
   quote the last four lines, which are addressed to the systems of
the heavens:

                     Roll on, God's mighty clock-work! roll and chime,
                     Ye tell the hours of Universal Time;
                        God is your Mighty Mainspring--God. your Soul,
                      His word hath wound you up, and on yo roll!

Thoughts on the Controversy as to a Plurality of Worlds. By

F. W. Cronhelm. This consists altogether of 2% octavo pages.

The writer holds that the "earth is the only seat of reproductive

life, and in this respect unique among the revolving globes created

by the heavenly Architect." He thinks that the planetary bodies

may be occupied by the angelic races, and by all the generations

of mankind since Adam. He suggests that the "admirable, though

somewhat austere, Milton" has given his sanction to a popular but

erroneous creed about the angels. For on the visit of Raphael to

Eden "Adam somewhat slily puts the question, whether he also

had not an Eve, or something like her in the bowers above. To
this the angel, as if taken by surprise, gives an evasive answer,

but with

          `A blush celestial rosy red'

by which Milton plainly intimates that our great ancestor was not

far wrong in his surmise. This curious passage seems to have

escaped the research of the numerous critics on the Paradise Lost."

The precise words here given may well escape the research of the

critics, as they are not Milton's ; what he really wrote is probably

Ias well known as any other passage of the poem.
         now proceed to those reviews which may be described as

neutral in opinion, and then to some which are on the whole

favourable ; but the classification is necessarily not very exact.

An article entitled The Plurality of Worlds occupies 3* pages

of the New Englander for Nov. 1854!; it is by Professor Olmsted.
It reviews the works of Dr Whewell and Sir D. Brewster in a.
Igrave temperate style.
                         will extract two sentences: "From the

high character which the authors of these works justly sustain as

men of profound science and accurate scholarship, we have felt

some surprise at the number of erroneous statements in point of

HUGH MILLER.  1 99

 fact, or principle, met with in each essay." "After some reflection    -
 on the question of a Plurality of Worlds, (meaning thereby the

 question Whether the planets are inhabited, and whether the stars

 are suns and centres of planetary worlds,) we are inclined to
 believe in the aflirmative, although we do so with a full con

 viction that there is much to be said on the other side." It is

 stated that views agreeing with those of the Essay as to shooting
 stars and the zodiacal light were first proposed by the Professor
 of Astronomy in Yale College; and Dr Whewell in the preface to
 the fourth edition of his Essay recognised the priority of Professor
 Olmsted as to this matter.

      An article entitled The Plurality of Worlds occupies six
 columns of the length of an octave page. In its second sentence
 it praises the "good writing, ingenious thinking, and very ex
 tensive scientific knowledge" of the author of the Essay; and its
 last sentence concludes by recommending "the works both of
 Sir David Brewster and his antagonist, as two of the most remark

 able pieces of controversy which the present age has produced."
      An article entitled Geology versus Astronomy occupies about

 ten columns of the length of an octave page. It may be safely
 attributed to Hugh Miller from the following circumstance. It

 quotes a passage of the Dialogue in which Dr Whewell says,

 "I now know that several years ago (in 1849), Hugh Miller, in his

 First Impressions of England (Chap. XVII) presented an argument

Ifrom Geology, very much of the nature of that which have

 employed ;"...Then the article proceeds, " There is an error in the
 date given here: the argument to which the author of the Essay
 refers `as much of the nature' of his own, was first published, not
 in 1849, but in October 1846, when it appeared in the columns of
- the Witness, as part of one of the chapters of `First Impressions'--
 3. work which was published in the collected form as a volume
 early in the following year." The article closes with an extract
 taken from the Essay, Chapter IX, sections 29...33, in which the

 claims of Geology are stated; the passage is pronounced to be
 "very admirable, both in form and substance."

      In Blackwood's Magazine for Sept. and Oct. 1854 the works of
 Dr \Vhewell and Sir D. Brewster are reviewed in articles entitled

200 MR s. WARREN.

Speculators among the Stars. In the preface to the third edition

of his Essay Dr Whewell speaks of these articles as "obviously

the work of an acute and able judge." They were written by

Mr Samuel Warren, and are reproduced in his Miscellanies, pages

I437...494, with additions, which consist chiefly of more copious

extracts; shall-cite the pages of this reprint. The review is one

of the best which the controversy produced--giving a full account

of the main parts of the subject in a calm judicial spirit; it is on

the whole decidedly favourable, at least to the temper and ability,

of the Essay and the Dialogue. Strong praise is expressed on

page 442 in a passage beginning thus: "The author has an easy

mastery of the English Language, and these pages abound in

vigorous and beautifully exact expressions." On page 452 it is

said, and quite truly, that the scope of contemporaneous criticism

is hostile to Dr Whewell's views, and an extract is given from an

Iunfavourable article which have not seen; no reference is given

in the Miscellanies, but in Blackwood's Magazine the article is
ascribed to an " accomplished diurnal London reviewer," to which

a note, Daily News, is added. On page 454 Mr Warren alludes

to the sensation which was produced by the delivery of the

Astronomical Discourses of Dr Chalmers, one or two of `which he

himself heard. `On pages 463 and 464 be strongly censures the

tone adopted by Sir D. Brewster.  ,

A review of the Essay occurs on pages 513...531 of the Eclectic

Review of May, 1854; it may probably be attributed to Mr G.

Gilfillan. This is a very interesting article, though more simplicity

of style might have been desired. The writer speaks of himself as

having been led more than ten years since to suspect that the

evidence for the plurality of worlds might not be so strong as had

been supposed. In proof of this he quotes a passage written in

1844 and published two years subsequently; it expresses opinions

 strikingly in harmony with those maintained in the Essay, though
' we may be sure it never came under the notice of Dr Whewell

until he saw them in this article. The passage occurs substan

tially, though not in precisely the same words, on page 116 of

Mr Gilfillan's Gallery of Literary Portraits, 1845. The reviewer
says: "The book, particularly in the last four chapters, contains

MR J. LEAVITT.                                               201

much that is as eloquent, powerful, and poetical in language, as

it is piercingly acute and suggestive in thought." Dr Whewell

notices this review on pages 400 and 4401 of the Dialogue.

    A review of Sir D. Brewster's book occurs on pages 35...62 of

the Christian Observer for Jan. 1855. As we have seen, the Essay

had already been noticed in the same periodical, but not by the

writer of the present article. The review is very decidedly against

Sir D. Brewster, and Dr Whewell alluded to it in the preface to

the fourth edition of his Essay.

An article entitled Unity of the World--Man's Place in the

Creation, occurs on pages 435...467 0f the New York Quarterly for

Oct. 185%. The writer, Mr Joshua Leavitt, sent a copy of it to

Dr Whewell, together with a copy of the Christian Review for

April, containing another article by him on the same subject; but

the latter does not appear in Dr Whewell's collection of reviews.
In the New York Quarterly the rival works are examined; the

article deals chiefly with the religious side of the question, and
Iwith respect to this it strongly censures Sir D. Brewster.
                                                             will

extract a few sentences from various parts of the article. "We

find ample and exuberant stores of all that is needful, so as to be

sure there is enough; and yet it is plain that they are exhaustible,

and calculated for a world that is to be inhabited but for a limited
period." " Evidently there must come a time, at however remote

a period, when the earth will be worn out, and no longer fit for

the abode of man." "The present knowledge in regard to the

various [heavenly] bodies offers continually accumulating evidence

that they are unfitted for the support of even animal life, and still

less adapted to be the abodes of rational and accountable beings,

capable of moral government and subjects of redemption. So that

while all the analogies in the kingdom of morals are seen to be

utterly irreconcilable with the theory, the supposed analogies in

the material world are fading away in the clearer light of ad

vancing science. We think Professor Whewell has rendered a

good service both to science and religion, by the profound sagacity

and the great learning which he has brought to bear on the
                                                                                          '

question."

An article entitled The Plurality of Worlds occurs on pages

202 MR DE MORGAN.

271...278 of the Ecclesiastic for June, 1854. The reviewer

objects only to the Chapter on The Future in the Essay; and

Dr Whewell noticed the objection in the Dialogue, page 401. Like

others, he draws especial attention to Chapter XI of the Essay; he

calls it a "masterpiece of close and logical reasoning," and extracts
" one passage as noble in its thought as eloquent in its expression."

The passage is Chapter XI, section 34, and following; this section

341 is also praised by Professor H. J. S. Smith, by Mr Gilfillan, and

by Dr Lightfoot in his funeral sermon upon- Dr \Vhewell: on the

other hand, Sir D. Brewster could not find language to express the

feeling with which he read and the reviewer in the Christian
it
                            it

                                                  it,
Remembrancer said struck him with horror.

    A review, occupying four columns of the length of an octavo

page, speaks favourably of the Essay, and concludes by saying that

'will "...show how entirely conjectural are the assumptions of

such astronomers as delight to create fresh beings with endless

profusion, and how the analogy of nature leans quite as much to

the older theory of the unique character of the earth."

Astronomy and Geology as taught in the Holy Scriptures, Liver~

pool, 1855. This an anonymous pamphlet in 23 octavo pages;
is
                                                                 a
the author gave his name in a copy which he sent with letter to

Dr Whewell. He refers to Dr Whewell by name, and adopts the

view of the Essay that the planets cannot have inhabitants in any

respect like man. He understands literally the Scriptural account

of the Creation in six natural days.

In Mr De Morgan's Budget Paradoxes, page 63, there a
is
                is

                                            :
                                                      ;

                                          :"
                                                     is is

                                          of

                                                                    is
                                                                             it
                                                                                                             is

                                                                              if
slight notice of the Essay and Dialogue. When preparing this
"Inotice, Mr De Morgan wrote to Dr Whewell thus:
                                                         have occa

sion for the date of your supplement-dialogue to the plurality of

worlds; and no date whatever given. Can you give me? The

omission awful for after all there may be more worlds, and how

    ours to be the best of all possible worlds, as Leibnitz said,

books go without dates?" It strange that so accurate a biblio

grapher as Mr De Morgan, after thus consulting the author of the

Dialogue, should go wrong; his statement               "First found in the

second edition, 1854 removed to the end in subsequent editions,

and separate copies issued  but there was a separate issue before

sm J. HERSCHEL.                                       203

that which occurs in the second edition of the Essay, and the

Dialogue was not removed to the end before the fifth edition.
     The collection of letters preserved by Dr Whewell contains

many addressed to him on the subject of the Plurality of Worlds ;

they uniformly recognise the ability with which the argument of
the Essay is conducted, and in some cases admit that it is quite

convincing, though no eminent scientific name occurs among those

who adopted his views. One correspondent offered a testimony

which could not have been very highly appreciated; he attended

to spirit-rapping--a fashionable folly of the hour--invoked the

shade of Newton, and received satisfactory information respecting

the nature of the sun and the comets. Short extracts from some

of the letters may be published without impropriety.

     Sir Benjamin Brodie suspected the authorship after reading a

Ifew pages; he says, " Whoever the author may be, perceive that

he is possessed of extensive and various knowledge combined with
great sagacity in the application of it. He has shown very clearly

that the other planets are not adapted for the maintenance of
beings like ourselves." But the writer proceeds to observe

that this leaves the possibility of the union of mind with other

forms of matter. Mr Hallam, after giving up the moon, says:

"This book carries the war much further, and it is impossible not

to admire the scientific knowledge and the originality of the argu

ments against any plurality of inhabited worlds." "Upon the

whole it is an original and very remarkable book, and will proba
Ibly make an epoch in such speculations.
                                          cannot deny that it
Ileaves considerable difficulties, and will, dare say, be unfavourably

received by the majority. Chalmers's theories were well received,

though they were very arbitrary." Sir J. Herschel, after alluding

to the general opinion that Dr Whewell himself was the author
Iof the Essay, says: " In common with other people
                                                      find
Imyself obliged to admit that should not have thought there was

so much to be said on the non-plurality side of the question."
" The book is full of striking things. The geological argument is

very pointedly put--The Magellanic Clouds are very availably

brought into action--Time and Space are duly and properly scorned

and reduced to their true value." Lord Rosse says: "There`

204 HUMBOLDT.

seems to be strong evidence in support of your opinion that the

I Inebulae are not enormously distant in proportion to the Fixed stars,

and in my last R. S. Address, which enclose, have taken that
I Iview.
confess, however, believe the Fixed stars are bodies

like our Sun, and that a Centauri is an example of them."

General Sabine quotes a passage from the Essay, page 208, which

conjectures that the atmosphere has probably solar and lunar

tides, and states that the existence and amount of the lunar

atmospheric tide has been ascertained at St Helena and Singapore.

    A letter, of sixteen large pages in French, addressed to

Dr Whewell, has been preserved. The writer says that he has

published in France a little book in answer to the Essay, and with

due apology he gives some account of his own views; they consist

in fact in holding a form of the Nebular Theory. Each planet is

slowly approaching the sun; thus each in turn comes within the

range suitable to the existence of inhabitants, and is then peopled

by the act of the Creator. The writer allows that he has never

heard any one speak of the spiral movement thus attributed to

the planets, but asks whether it is certain that the idea may not
be received one day with a certain degree of favour. He also

suggests that the planets may gradually contract so as to increase

in density; and he asserts that when the density increases the

orbit will diminish. He finally diverges into praise of the emperor

Louis Napoleon, condemnation of Russia, and anticipation of

unbounded benefits from the alliance of the English and French.

Humboldt in a letter dated Berlin, 21 February, 1854, says:

"Je ne saurois Vous exprimer assez vivement, Monsieur et

illustre ami, combien j'ai été touché de votre aimable souvenir,

en m'adressant, signé de votre main, l'important ouvrage sur la

Pluralité des Mondes. Vous avez attaqué, avec cette puissance

que donne une vaste étendue de connoissances et cette sagacité

dans les vues dont brille votre admirable histoire des Sciences

Inductives, un probleme souvent dénaturé. On l'a rendu presque

dangereux a traiter, en craignant d'empiéter sur la liberté d'une

imagination toute poétique ou de méler trop directement a la

discussion des intéréts élevés de la religion positive. Je tiens

beaucoup aux premieres impressions d'une lecture rapide mais

       CANCELLED SHEETS.                                    2O5

pourtant tres instructive. Tout ce qui a rapport au Systeme Solaire

et aux Nébuleuses est rempli d'idées grandioses et souvent tres

neuves; l'apercu géologique, the theory of the Solar System, le
11me et surtout 1e 12me Chap", Unity of the World, m'ont paru pleins

d'attraits. C'est un désir bien doux a remplir que de Vous
ofl'rir, Monsieur, 1e re`spectueux hommage de ma reconnoissance..."

     The sheets of the Essay as they passed through the press were
read by Sir James Stephen; and the correspondence which thus
arose between the author and his accomplished friend and critic
is very interesting. Partly in deference \to the advice of Sir
James Stephen Dr Whewell cancelled many pages of his work

after they had been printed, as they seemed too metaphysical for
English readers. He himself sent a set of the cancelled sheets to

Professor J. D. Forbes, and requested his attention to them. A

copy of the book in its original form has been preserved, so that

the amount thus cancelled can be readily ascertained. In the

first published edition the last three chapters are announced in
the Table of contents thus:

XI. The Argument from Design     .             Page    210
                                                       248
XII. The Unity of the World                        ,,  265
XIII. The Future                                  ,,

In the original form we have :

XI.    The Argument from Design                ,,      210
XII.                                           ,,      249
XIII.  The Argument from Law                   ,,      290
XIV.                                           ,,      302
       The Omnipresence of the Deity           ,,      310
XV.                                            ,,      317
XVI.   Man's Intellectual Task                 ,,      333

XVII.  Man's Moral Trial

       The Design of Animal Springs of Action

       The Future                `

Thus five Chapters of the original form occupying pages 249...332

are cancelled, and replaced by the Chapter on the Unity of the
World on pages 248...264. There appears to be no other differ
ence between the original form and the first published edition,
except in the last section of the Argument from Design, and in
section 21 of the Future; in the former case the original form

206 UNITY OF THE WORLD.

is longer, and in the latter case shorter than the first published

edition.

Portions of the cancelled sheets, amounting to about fourteen

pages, were used in the Chapter on the Unity of the World in

the published volume; and formed the whole of that Chapter

except the first two sections, so that about seventy pages were

printed and finally withdrawn. Thus sections 3 and 4 of the Unity

of the World are the sections 20 to 23 of the Argument from
Law; sections 5 and 6 are the sections 32 and 33 of the Argu
ment from Law; section 7 is Section 43 of the Argument from
Law; sections 8 and 9 are sections 11 and 12 of the Omnipresence

of the Deity; sections 10 to 15 are sections 5 to 10 of Man's
Moral Trial; and sections 16 to 20 are sections 13 to 17 of the

Design of Animal Springs of Action. The passages lose some of
their interest by being thus dislocated from their original con

nection and recombined. The title Unity of the World is itself a
witness to the awkwardness of the change of arrangement; for it

seems to amount to giving to one Chapter the designation which

may properly be assigned to the whole work. We may interpret
it thus: in other Chapters it is argued that the stars and planets

are not adapted for a rational population, and in the present

Chapter it is maintained that the Earth and Man constitute an
adequate field for the glory of the Creator. In consequence of
their displacement from their original positions sections 3 to 6 of

the Unity of the World seem not to bear upon the general sub
ject ; and section 7 begins by referring to " that argument," when

nothing immediately precedes to which the phrase can apply.
Instead of "that argument " we should read " the question of the

Unity or Plurality of Worlds."

   I proceed to give some account of the contents of the cancelled

sheets.                  _

The Chapter on the Argument from Law is a contribution to

Natural Theology, throughout which the author seems to postpone

his main subject until he comes to the last page; then he intro

duces a section coincident with the seventh of Chapter XII of

the Essay which brings him back to the proposition that man is
" a worthy object of all the vast magnificence of Creative Power."

            REMARKS ON HEGEL.                 207

A few detached passages from the Chapter may be extracted.
"The argument from Design, and the argument from Law, in

proof of the existence and activity of a Divine Creator and

Governor, may indeed be stated briefly in similar modes. Those

who urge the former argument, are accustomed to say, Design

proves a Designer, and that Designer is God. In like manner, we
may say, Law proves a Lawgiver, and that Lawgiver is God."

"If man, the creature, the student of creation, the slow Learner,

the mistaker, yet the Lover of Truth, must pursue his study, and

acquire his truth, by the use of his geometry; must not God, the

Creator, the Lawgiver of Creation, the Teacher, the Infallible,

the Author of Truth, also have done his work, by introducing into
it geometry?" " Why does the constitution of the world, as an

object, correspond with the constitution of the mind, as a mind?

First; because they are the works of the same Maker; but that is

not the whole reason: further; because the constitution of the

world is marked with the Thoughts of the Divine Mind, and the

human mind  in part, a sharer in the Thoughts of the Divine
            is,
Mind." Speaking of Hegel's presumptuous criticisms on Newton,is
Dr Whewell says that " they have been carefully and fairly

considered in this country, and discussed, so far as they admit of

discussion. And we do not see Why persons who have thus weighed

these speculations should not describe them plainly; and say that

these, and many of the like speculations of other German philo

sophers, are ignorant, presumptuous, and illogical, to an extent to
which no injustice done by calling them childish." With respect

to Hegel's speculations in other departments of human knowledge

Dr Whewell says, "But that these parallels and contrasts, these

antitheses and epigrams, these metaphors and phrases, are to pass
for a Philosophy of History, or of Law, or of Taste, or of any large

subject, shews, we may almost say, not only great presumption in

him who delivers such a so-called philosophy, but a certain abject

ness of spirit in those who receive as profound philosophy."
                      it

                                a
                                                       is

                                                         if
                                                                  of
The question proposed in the Chapter on the 'Omuipresence-

is,
the Deity how are we to conceive that the Divine Ideas govern

the Universe? The answer given and developed  that we

suppose "God, Infinite and Eternal, to be present in all parts of

208 MAN's INTELLECTUAL TASK.

space, at all moments of time, and to carry into effect by his
power the Laws of Nature, which he has established in his

wisdom,'many difficulties are removed, and manyvobscurities
cleared." The discussion is connected with the main subject in

the last two sections of the Chapter, which agree with the eighth
and ninth of Chapter XII of the Essay.

The Chapter on JlIan's Intellectual Task supplies an important

limitation of what had been said in the preceding Chapter.

The question  does God think and will in us, as He moves
              is,
                                                                     is,
matter or developes plants? The answer                                    that the events

which take place in our intellectual world, the thoughts which

we think, cannot be said to be God's thoughts or the direct
result of His agency. Man's great business, considering him

merely as an intellectual creature, consists "in controlling and

subduing the influences within him, which may prevent or retard
his discovery of truth, and in unfolding and perfecting the powers
which he has in him tending to such discovery." The last section

of the Chapter returns to the main topic--the possibility that the

earth     the only seat of intelligent life, and concludes thus:
       a is
                                             if,
" For how few of mankind realize the intellectual destiny thus

placed before them! And by any act of the Divine Govern

ment, the number of those who rightly aspire to approach to the

Divine Nature, were greatly increased upon earth, would not
this be far more suitable, and a far more intelligible method, of

extending the Divine Kingdom of Intellect, than any multipli

cation of worlds could be, supposing the worlds to be such as

this world of earth was, before that act of the Divine Govern

ment by which man was created, in his intellect at least, after

the Image of God l"
    The Chapter on llfan's llIoral Trial begins with some general

remarks on right and wrong, and on the springs human action,
          of

             is
                                               is

                                              of
                                                             of

                                                                            of
which are coincident with the author's views as expounded in his

Elements      Morality; these form the first half of the Chapter,

and the rest coincides with sections 10 to 15 of Chapter XII of

the Essay.

In the Chapter on The Design Animal Springs                                     Action,

a doctrine    noticed which                       often put forward--"that the

ANIMAL msrmc'rs.  209

happiness of man, and the enjoyment of all entient creatures,
is the pervading purpose of the Creation." Paley's well-known

remark is quoted, "It is a happy world after all." Dr_Whewell

however does not admit that there is for the animal creation
an obvious balance of pleasure: " But to many persons, the
animal creation, and its fortunes, as they are most commonly

seen, offer a far less cheerful spectacle than this. It appears

to them, to be full of sufl'ering and pain, unmerited, unredressed,

uncompensated." Then some explanation is offered of the facts
of animal life by the analogy of the general plan which can
be traced through all the class of vertebrated animals. "And
thus the springs of action in animals, may all be regarded as

rudiments of the proper and universal springs of human action.
And the general law of the animal creation, that such springs of

action should exist, may be regarded as instituted, not for the
sake of animals alone, but as a great feature of the animal
creation, with man at its head, who is far more than a mere

animal; and in whom, the animal springs of action assume a'

form and a purpose, which could not have been conjectured,
from their operation in animals merely: just as the meaning of
the rudimentary bones of the human hand could not have been

conjectured, from merely considering the paw of the lion, or the
foot of the crocodile." The sections 13 to 17 which finish this
Chapter coincide with sections 16 to 20 of Chapter XII of the

IEssay. Here conclude my account of the cancelled sheets.

     Among Dr Whewell's papers are preserved some remarks on
Animal Instincts, occupying six printed octavo pages, which were
probably originally designed to form part of the Essay. The

difference between. Instinct and Insight is explained as in the
Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, Vol. II, p. 109. The doc~
trine maintained is that Instincts are the working of the Divine

Mind. "At a certain period of philosophy, the doctrine was so
familiar that the expression of it was almost proverbial. Deus est

anima brutorum, `God is the soul of brutes' was an accepted
maxim." Grotius is cited as expressing the same opinion. The
remarks conclude in the following manner: "And thus, the
existence of Instincts in the animal world, even though they

         w. 14

2l0         .               MANUSCRIPTS.

may be regarded as, in a peculiar sense, the operation of a

Divine Mind, pervading such a world, does not make the exist

ence of such a world a worthy scene of the Divine Care and

Government, in comparison with the Divine Providence and

Government which rules the affairs of this our human world; it

does not do this, in any greater degree than the Divine Care and
Government, by which the worlds of inanimate matter are di

rected and governed by the same Divine Mind. Whether the

planets be uninhabited, or be inhabited by mere races of animals,

which are impelled by animal impulses, and directed, by Instincts
divinely implanted and maintained, in constant cycles of self

support, self-defense, and reproduction; still, such planets are

stationary, unintelligent, unraised assemblages of being; and

suggest no thought worthy of a Divine Author, compared with

the humblest scene of human trial, discipline, sorrow, fear, hope,

duty or virtue."

     The following are the only manuscripts bearing on the subject of

the Plurality of Worlds which occur among Dr Whewell's papers.

     Astronomy and Religion, three Dialogues. The first dialogue
is on 24 pages, and is dated June 13, 1850, K, that Kreuznach;
                             is
                                                                 is,

                                                                                is
consists of a statement of the difficulties connected with the
6 it
question of the Plurality of Worlds. The second dialogue on
                     ispages, and the third on 5; these are incomplete. On the
                        is
whole we may say that there  nothing of importan` ce  in these
                                                         '
papers which not embodied in the Essay.

     Philosophy and Theology. This consists of 74 pages, dated
C. C. Aug. 27, 1851~; the C. C. denotes Cliff Cottage, Lowestoft.

The paper                 interesting, though contains nothing essentially
                             it
new. It consists of the author's well-known doctrine about Facts
                                       is
and Ideas, and some discussion of the relation between the human

mind and the divine, like that which given in the cancelled

pages of the Essay, and in Chapter XXX of the Philosophy of

Discovery.

                      CHAPTER XIII.

                      185l...1866.

IN the year 1854 the Archaeological Institute met at Cambridge

in July, and Dr Whewell was present. During the year he

published two Inaugural Lectures delivered in London, and a
Ipamphlet on the Oxford University Bill. These
                                                                       shall now

notice.

     On the material Aids of Education: being an Inaugural
Lecture on the occasion of the Educational Exhibition of 1854:.
Delivered July 10, 18541. This is a pamphlet in 39 small
octavo pages. Education is defined to be " the process of making

individual men participators in the best attainments of the

human mind in general : namely, in that which is most rational,

true, beautiful, and good." Some remarks are made under the

 four divisions here indicated. The lecture is well deserving of

attention. A few brief extracts may be given.

     After speaking of living and dead- languages, Dr Whewell

says: "you will find that the living part of the English language
is the dead languages; that the power of forming new words
                      is
                                    is,
and new derivatives,  exercised by using, not Saxon, but Latin

elements." After alluding to mechanical contrivances for making

truths obvious to the senses, Dr Whewell says: "Let us by all

means make our educational apparatus as complete as we can;

but let us always recollect that         the thought involved in such
                      it
                                  it                                   the office of all

                                          is

                                                       it

                                                                   is
apparatus which gives its value; and that

such helps to teach men to think, not to save them the trouble of
thinking." The great practical difficulty in education, at least in

England, frankly admitted by Dr Whewell in the brief noticeis

which he takes of his fourth division: "The remaining one of

                                                                       14--2

212 ENGLISH LANGUAGE.

Ithe four objects which mentioned, forming the objects of a

general education as generally understood,---the making men

participators of that which the human mind has attained of
good,-----though in itself the highest and most important part
of education, must on the present occasion he treated very im

perfectly, and with great reserve. This must happen, unfor

Itunately, may say, in consequence of the very view which we

are now taking of education, that it consists in making the
individual a participator, in the best knowledge and belief, to
which men in general have attained. For what is the best know

ledge and belief, concerning good and evil, has unhappily been
the subject of much controversy: so that men in general are
not agreed as to what is the best and completest kind of such

knowledge."

     Dr Whewell's remarks on the English language were criticised
in an article in the Examiner, reprinted on pages 508...510 of
the Life and Labours of Albany Fonblanque. The critic condemns
as a barbarism the word prepaid which Dr Whewell had used

as an illustration, because the simple word paid expresses the

sense completely.  He proceeds to maintain a common pro

position, that "The best styles are the freest from Latinisms;

and it may be almost laid down as a rule that a good writer will

never have recourse to a Latinism while a Saxon word will

equally serve his purpose." The remarks of Dr Whewell, how

ever, do not bear on this proposition; they relate to the fact

that compound words are formed not from Saxon but from

Latin elements.

     On the influence of the History of Science upon intellectual
education: a Lecture delivered at the Royal Institution of Great
Britain, before H. R. H. Prince Albert. This lecture is the
first in an octave volume published in 1855, entitled Lectures on

Education, delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain.
Dr \Vhewell's lecture occupies 36 pages of the volume; it was
delivered in 1854. Most of the lectures, including Dr Whewell's,

were afterwards reproduced in a volume called Modern Culture,
edited by Dr Youmans. The proposition which is supported by
Dr Whewell is this: That every great advance in intellectual

INFLUENCE OF THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE. 213

education has been the efi'ect of some considerable scientific

discovery, or group of discoveries. This is illustrated by the cases

of Greek Geometry, Roman Law, and modern Inductive Philo--

sophy. The lecture is written with great vigour, and presents
in a compendious form the opinions of Dr Whewell on the im

portant subject of education. Of Roman Law the lecturer
speaks in high terms : " Cicero says, proudly, but not too proudly,

that a single page of a Roman jurist contained more solid and

exact matter than a whole library of Greek philosophers." The
remark was adopted by Mr A. Elley Finch in a recent lecture,

and came under the censure of a critic as an inexact rendering

of Cicero's words. The lecturer replied that he adopted the
passage from Dr Whewell, to whom he referred in a note, and

added, "As a rhetorical paraphrase suited Dr Whewell's purpose
(in an oral address) so it suited mine." Dr Whewell's lecture gave

great delight to J. C. Hare, then drawing towards the close of his

busy life.

    Dr Whewell alludes in- the lecture to the well-known story

that Plato declined to, receive among his hearers those who were

ignorant of Geometry; but by inadvertently adopting a common

error he represents the philosopher as disfiguring the gate of the

Academy with an inscription in false Greek.

  ` In the Oxford Essays, Vol. 1, page 270, Mr Pattison observes
in a note, " That improvements in education follow improvements

in logical method has lately been insisted on by Whewell, Lecture

at the Royal Institution, p. 7, thus very much modifying the

opinions on the subject he had expressed in 1837, in his Principles
Iof English University Education, p. 241, &c."
                                                do not understand

this; on page 7 of the lecture Dr Whewell merely adopts

Mr Grote's view of the Sophists, and the phrase logical method

does not occur in the lecture.                  _

Notes on the Oxford University Bill in reference to the Colleges

at Cambridge. This is an octavo pamphlet of 36 pages, which

seems to have been printed for private circulation: it is dated

Trinity College, May 1, 1854. The pamphlet disapproves very

decidedly of all the changes which, according to the analogy of

the Oxford Bill, might be proposed at Cambridge. A few sen

     `  UNIVERSITY REFORM.

214

tences may be extracted. "If therefore it were proposed at

Cambridge to provide a Fund for University purposes by sup

Ipressing some of the Fellowships of Trinity and St John's, and
leaving the smaller Colleges untouched,  conceive that all per

sons interested in the improvement of the University would

regard such a proceeding as enormously mischievous and per

verse; since it would destroy or diminish the best parts of the

system of things now existing at Cambridge, and encourage the
worst parts. Trinity and St John's have been regarded as, in

most respects, good examples of what Colleges ought to be; and

those who blamed the effect of our College system have especially

applied their condemnation to the'smaller Colleges. Yet this

part of the Oxford Bill, if applied to Cambridge, would leave the

smaller Colleges as they are, and bring Trinity and St John's to

resemble them more nearly."

    In the beginning of the year 1855 Dr Whewell was requested

by the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishops of London and

Oxford to undertake in conjunction with Professor H. H. Wilson
and Mr J. Muir the office of examiner of some essays on the
IHindu Systems of Philosophy.
                               presume these essays had been

written in competition for the prize mentioned on page 155, but

I do not know whether Dr Whewell acceded to the request. In

the course of the year he resigned the Professorship of Moral

Philosophy, in which he" was succeeded by the Rev. John Grote of
Trinity College. In November he was appointed Vice-Chancellor
of the University. In December Mrs Whewell died after along

illness. Three pamphlets connected with University Reform are

Iall the publications of the year which have to notice.

     An octavo pamphlet of 8 pages marked Private, and dated
April 19, 1855, relates to a point in the administration of the

University. Objections were made by some persons to the power

which the Heads of Colleges exercised with respect to the election
to certain offices; and Dr Whewell proposes to answer the objectors.

Since this date the matter has been practically settled in favour
of the objectors, to whom it must be admitted that Dr Whewell

himself belonged in his early days. The pamphlet seems

scarcely consistent with itself, in treating the point in dispute

UNIVERSITY REFORM.  215

  as of small importance while strenuously upholding the existing

  condition.

       Remarks on the proposed reform of the University of Cambridge,
  May 31, 1855. This is an octavo pamphlet of 25 pages, besides

 the title-page; it is marked Private. It is directed against two

  letters issued by four of the persons who had been engaged on the
  Royal Commission to enquire into the University of Cambridge,
  and their Secretary. The main point is the question of the

 position of the Heads of Colleges in the University Constitution.

 The progress of opinions and events seems to have decided against
 Dr Whewell. He claims great credit to himself as a reformer, but
 the changes which he advocated, or was willing to accept, were
 perhaps not of primary importance. There were many serious
 evils which his long experience must have brought under his
 notice--such as the undue pressure to take holy orders, the diffi

 culty of securing efficient resident teachers, the inadequate stipends
 of professors, and the undesirable modes of election--and he seems

 to have made no attempt to remedy these. It is a matter of great

 regret that his power and influence were never used in favour

 of improvements, since almost universally recognized as desirable.
 But it would be ungrateful to forget that, both by his example

 and by his participation in University legislation, he did much to
 elevate the character of the University; especially by vigorously

 supporting the extension of the range Of study, and by increasing
 the importance and the responsibility of the functions of the

 Professors.

     An octavo pamphlet, entitled Additional Remarks on the
proposed Reform of the University of Cambridge, consists of
twelve pages; it is marked Private and dated June 16, 1855.
This relates to the same matter as the pamphlet of April 19, 1855,
and alludes by name to Dr Peacock, who was one of the objectors.
A few words may be extracted. " Persons have spoken of putting
down the tyranny of the Heads, after the manner of the Athenian
hymn to Harmodius and Aristogiton. They have talked in
dignantly of the despotic character of Whitgift, the author, as
they say, of the present University Constitution; though his cha
racter appears to have little more to do with the merits of the

216 ROTATION on THE MOON.

Constitution for present use, than the character of the Barons who
signed Magna Charta has with the present English Constitution."

     In the year 1856, Dr Whewell seems to have attended an
Archaeological meeting at Edinburgh in July. He was present
at the meeting of the British Association at Cheltenham, in

August ; and in the Transactions of the Sections he is reported to

have made a communication On the reasons for describing the

Moon's Motion as a lllotion about her axis. From time to time

the notion reappears among unscientific people that the moon
does not rotate on her axis, and at this date Mr Jellinger Symons
addressed a printed letter to Dr Whewell advocating the unsound
opinion. Mr Symons was an Inspector of Schools and he com
plained that children were taught most erroneously that the Moon

rotated on her axis. At the meeting of the British Association at
Cheltenham he discussed the matter orally with Dr Whewell and
others in the Mathematical Section. An account of the discussion
will be found in the Athenceum for August 23, 1856, from which it
appears, as might have been expected, that Mr Symons made no

converts among the scientific people who were present. There is
no record in the volume of the British Association of Dr Whewell's
communication, but it probably coincided with a printed page on
the subject in two columns, preserved among his papers, which
agrees with the account in the Athenaeum. The question is
treated simply and conclusively. In; December Dr Whewell visited
 Rome, furnished with letters of introduction- from Bunsen.

      The following are the publications 'of the year: a paper con
 nected with the management of the Fitzwilliam Museum in the
 University, a sermon on the death of Mrs Whewell to be

 noticed hereafter, and Elegiacs on the same subject.

     In January, 1856, a dispute arose between Dr Whewell, as
 Vice-Chancellor, and the Syndicate for managing the Fitz

 william Museum. The Vice-Chancellor on his own responsibility
 altered the arrangement of the pictures in the Museum, and the
 Syndicate objected to this course as an unconstitutional exercise
 of authority. Various papers were circulated in the University
 on the subject, and among them one by the Vice-Chancellor in

 six quarto pages defending his proceedings.

                  ELEGIACS.                                         21 7

Shortly after the death of his wife, Dr Whewell printed some

Elegiacs which were circulated privately among his friends. They

form a quarto pamphlet of 31 pages, besides the title-page and

the list of contents. The matter consists of about 800 lines, and

is disposed in 13 sections, which have the following titles: the

first Sabbath after the burial ; the second Sabbath, the Epiphany;

the Picture; the Return home; recollections of the Burial Service;

the Psalm; the Lesson; the Grave; the Thanksgiving; the Grave

stone; the Sermon; the Monument; Easter Day. The Lesson

and a part of the Grave are in Hexameters, and the rest in
IElegiacs.
            will quote two passages as specimens.

The following is the conclusion of the Section on the illonu

ment:

Hope, when driven from earth, finds refuge in heaven, and beckons,
   Beckons us onwards still: promises union there:

Promises union there, in! mansions of bliss and of gladness,
   There in the presence of Him whom she so faithfully serv'd.

So when the summer sunset gleam, on the top of Helvellyn,
   Fades and passes away into the grey of the night,--

Watch but a. few short hours, and soon, through the melting of darkness,
   Bright shines forth on his crest radiance of heavenly morn."

The following is from the section on the Lesson:

      One is the glory of earth: celestial glory another.
      One is the glory of Sun; of Moon the glory is other;
      Other the glory of stars; and stars, too, difier in glory.
       And even so man's body is changed to find resurrection.
      Sown is it in corruption, and raised in incorruption.
      Sewn is it in dishonour, thereafter raised in glory.
      Sown it is in weakness, and raised in strength and in power.

Mr Longfellow in thanking Dr Whewell for a copy of the
"IElegiacs said:
                  have read the poems with great interest and

pleasure; and yet with a painful sympathy with you in your

afliiction, which has found expression in such musical numbers.

I am delighted tov see the Elegiac metre introduced into English

verse; it is so beautiful, and- satisfies the ear so completely.
And to you we must give the honor of its introduction, if we

pass over the few specimens of translation from the German."

Mr Longfellow, as is well known, has himself cultivated English

218 REVIEW or BACON'S woRKs.

Hexameters, and his Evangeline, written in that metre, was

reviewed by Dr Whewell, as we shall see in a later chapter.

Early in the year 1857 Dr \Vhewell was elected a cor

responding member of the French Institute in the place of

Sir William Hamilton of Edinburgh; he mentions this in a
                          J. D. Forbes as " a great and quite unexpected
  letter  to  Professor

.
honour, and certainly not bestowed on account of the similarity

of our philosophy." The Parisian metaphysicians could scarcely

have given a more striking example of the eclecticism which was

then their prevailing system than by the successive choice of such

determined antagonists. In August Dr Whewell was in Dublin
during the latter half of the time of the meeting of the British

Association; but owing to illness he took very little part in the

proceedings. There is only one publication of the year to notice,

Ia review, to which now proceed.

    In the Edinburgh Review for October, 1857, pages 289...322,

Dr Whewell reviewed the new edition of Bacon's works, then

being published under the joint care of Mr James Spedding,

Mr Robert Leslie Ellis, and Mr Douglas Denon Heath; at that

time the first three volumes had appeared, containing the

philosophical works. This   is is,I  think, the only contribution of

Dr Whewell to the Review, in which his own books had formerlyof

been treated very harshly. Dr Whewell seems to have had the

article reprinted for private circulation; the type        is  large, so

that the reprint forms a pamphlet of 48 octavo pages. In the

Edinburgh Review the article headed Spedding's complete edition

the works                 Bacon; in the reprint  it      headed Review of
it of                                                is    Francis Bacon;
                      of                               of
Spedding and Ellis's Edition         the Works

and the list of books at the head of the article in the Review  is

omitted. The new edition of Bacon's works justly praised; butis

seems to me that the ability, the learning, and the disinterested

labour vof the editors deserved still warmer commendation from

the oflicial head of the great college to which they and their

author alike belonged. One of the most striking Chapters in the

Philosophy        the Inductive Sciences         that relating to Bacon;
              of                          is

                                                       of
this Chapter, when reprinted in the Philosophy Discovery, 1860,

was followed by another consisting of Additional Remarks on

VALUE OF BACON'S WORKS.  219

Francis Bacon: these two Chapters should be studied in connexion
with the present review. Perhaps in the Additional Remarks we
might have expected to find a reference to the very severe attack
on Bacon which ProfeSsor Liebig had published not long before.

     Dr Whewell in this article takes some notice of the hostile

criticism on Bacon which appeared in a posthumous work of
Joseph de Maistre; he also contrasts Bacon with Comte, to the

great disadvantage of the latter. A recent publication by
M. Charles de Remusat on Bacon is praised; one by Kuno Fischer

is also named at the head of the article, but there is no other

allusion to it. The article seems ,to differ from thev author's
earlier notice of Bacon in two respects; on the whole the estimate

of Bacon's scientific importance seems higher in the Review than

in the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, and the practical
applications of knowledge are here more fully considered. This

matter of practical applications had been rather neglected, we
might almost say depreciated, in Dr Whewell's earlier writings,

but was made more prominent afterwards: see the Philosophy of
the Inductive Sciences, Vol. II, page 246, and the Novum Organon

Renovatam, pages 2&0. . .246.

      There is probably no more difficult problem in the history
of science than a correct estimate of the nature, the merit, and

the value of Bacon's writings; the criticisms and discussions

connected with Bacon almost rival in bulk those which are asso

ciated with the names of Dante and Shakespeare, and the con

clusions which have been deduced exhibit a bewildering discord
ance of opinion. Dr Whewell himself erected a statue of Bacon
in the antechapel of his college; the thanks. of the resident

fellows were conveyed to him through Professor Sedgwick, and
in reply Dr Whewell considered it fortunate that this communi
cation had been made through one who knew and felt so well
the purpose and the value of what Bacon did. But the venerable
Professor seems never to have clearly revealed what he knew and
felt so well. Dr Whewell himself discountenances the suggestion
that Bacon's method consists in the accumulation of facts by
ordinary observers, from which the elements of theoretical know

ledge which they involve are afterwards to be extracted by

220          TRUE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.

intellects of a higher order. Some have fancied however that they

do find in the functions of the British Association a near ap--

proach to the realisation of the Baconian scheme; they have

regarded this scientific company as yielding a literal accomplish

ment of Bacon's favourite text: " Multi pertransibunt et augebitur
IScientia."
             see from an article in the Revue des Deua: Mondes

for March, 1875, that M. Charles de Remusat has again discussed

the old problem of the special merits of Bacon.

    Dr Whewell states in his review the points in which Bacon

"has divined in a remarkable manner the characters of the true

progress of science." The most important is the recommendation

of what Bacon called the Interpretation of Nature in opposition

to what he called the' Anticipation of Nature. It is illustrated

in two ways. "Then only may we have hope of the sciences,
when we ascend by a true ladder..." "The sciences are like

pyramids, experiment and history being their indispensable basis."

But these images of a ladder and of a pyramid seem far less

appropriate to the course of science, than that of a stream gradu

ally increasing from an insignificant source till it becomes an

ample flood. Stripped of metaphor Bacon's essential precept

amounts to an injunction to abstain from guesses and theories--

a fatal discouragement to the efforts of the highest genius if it

could be really enforced. But fortunately the great discoverers in

_ science have never submitted to the fetters of even Baconian

rules.  Dr Whewell exemplifies his commendation of Bacon

by considering the sciences of astronomy and magnetism. It

may be said however that the triumphs of astronomy were

gained quite independently of Bacon; his name indeed seems

never to have occurred to Newton. And magnetism consists of

a mass of facts and observations which as yet have led to nothing

like an Interpretation of Nature; the only theory that exists

consists of some exquisite mathematical investigations which

Bacon would have scorned in ignorance.

     The works of Bacon consist altogether of such a large mass,
that it may be well to remember that so far as science and the

history of science are concerned we may restrict ourselves to the

Novum Organum. The Essays, famous as they are, have no impor

BAcoN's LANGUAGE.  22 1

tance in this respect; as Bacon himself says of the clipt juniper

trees of his time, "they be for children." The fascination of the

Novum Organum is irresistible; a student may not unfrequently
think that he will explore some other parts of the author's

writings, and yet soon find himself drawn back to that which

seems so incomparably the greatest of them all. The latest and

best of Bacon's editors expresses the opinion that few persons

will care for Baconian Latin when they might read Baconian
I IEnglish.
am aware that shall appear presumptuous in con

fessing to be among the few ,' to me the English of Bacon presents
no peculiar attractions compared with that of his contemporaries,

while the Latin seems to be especially adjusted to the striking

thoughts which it preserves. It 'must be admitted, however, that

Hobbes, who is said to have assisted Bacon in the composition

of some of his works, enjoys a just reputation for the vigour of

his English style, while his Latin writings are not conspicuously

eminent. On the whole Bacon may be likened to an unknown

~divinity, and no interpreter has yet revealed to us the true

 Icharacter of the object of our ignorant worship.
         extract a passage from Dr Whewell's article which applies

in some measure to his own manuscripts: "There is a question

of prudence and propriety which must often be very perplexing to

editors who have in their hands a great number of successive drafts

of an author's work, or of its parts. How far are they bound by
deference to the author so as to acquiesce in what he thought and

said after all his fluctuations of judgment ? How far are they to

indulge the curiosity of the reader, by shewing him the trials

which the master made before he succeeded to his own satis

faction? Perhaps we may venture to say that in such cases the

completed work more truly represents the author's mind; whilst
at the same time it is difficult for his ordinary admirers not to

wish to catch him in the unaccomplished effort. The real reve

rence for the teacher is shewn by listening to him when he begins

to teach, not by overhearing his soliloquies. In some kinds of

composition, poetry for instance, nothing can be more adverse to a

pure poetical enjoyment of a fine passage, than to compare a rough
draft, full of false rhymes, flat lines, superfluous epithets and

222 TRANSLATION or LENORE.

broken constructions, with the `full majestic march and energy
divine,' which the same passage finally acquires, and which it
then seems to have had from the moment that it sprang from
the poet's mind. We know manuscript drafts of portions in
Milton, which it seems almost profanation to read, or when they

have been read, to recollect."

In July, 1858, Dr Whewell married Lady Affleck, widow of

Sir Gilbert Aflieck and sister of Robert Leslie Ellis of Trinity

JCollege. He travelled in Scotland during the summer, and spent

a few days with Professor . D. Forbes at Pitlochry in Perthshire ;

he attended the meeting of the British Association at Leeds in

September.  He was present at the ceremony connected with

the completion of a statue to Newton at Grantham, on which

Ioccasion Lord Brougham presided and delivered an address.
   pass to the publications of the year, namely an address at

Leeds, a translation of Biirger's Lenore, The History of Scientific
Ideas, The Novum Organon Renovatum, and two academical

pamphlets.

At the meeting of the British Association at Leeds in Sep

tember, 1858, Dr Whewell was President of the Section of

Mathematics and Physics. His introductory Address to the

Section is given on pages 1 and 2 of the Transactions of the

Sections in the Report for the year. The Address alludes to

the Report by Professor Powell on Luminous Meteors, and to

the Report by Mr Cayley on the Progress of Theoretical Dyna

mics. It concludes thus: "And now, having explained that we

Imust often be necessarily difficult to follow in this Section, must

ask the ladies and gentlemen here present, as the Spectator asks

his readers, to believe that, if at any time we are very dull, we

have a design in it."

    In 1858 a little book appeared, entitled Two Verse Transla

tions of Burger's Lenore; it was published at Cambridge by

Macmillan and C0. It consists of 39 pages. In the preface

the first paragraph of the preface to the Verse Translations... of

1847 is repeated. The original German is given with two trans

lations ; that on the left-hand pages is the same as in the Verse
ITranslations, and is therefore by Dr Whewell;
                                                do not know

HISTORY OF SCIENTIFIC IDEAS.  '223

the author of the other translation. Various English translations

of the piece had appeared before Dr Whewell's; and since then,

Sir John Herschel has published another; see his, Essays..., 1857,
If Ipages 712...731.
                      may venture to ofl'er an opinion on the
Isubject, should say that the original scarcely deserves the great

attention which it has received. The ghastly catastrophe rather

shocks than instructs; and though the moral which the writer

intends to draw is the wickedness of rebelling against Providence,

yet it seems more natural to grieve over the permitted existence

of such evils as dreadful battles than to blame the unhappy girl

for her want of resignation to their results. It is difficult to

understand the fascination which has made so many eminent men
linger over this depressing ballad, to which Dr Johnson's fine

remark is especially applicable: "Pleasure and terror are indeed

the genuine sources of poetry; but poetical pleasure must be such

as human imagination can at least conceive, and poetical terror

such as human strength and fortitude may combat." An article in

Fraser's Magazine for May, 1858, entitled Burger and his Trans--

lators, treats of eight published translations and one_in manu

script; Dr Whewell's is included among the eight.
    In the year 1858 Dr Whewell issued his History of Scientific

Ideas in two volumes, and his Novum Organon Renovatum in one

volume. The volumes are in small octavo, to range with the

third edition of theIHistory of the Inductive Sciences. The History
of Scientific Ideas is substantially a reproduction of the first

volume of the second edition of the Philosophy of the Inductive
Sciences; there are a few additions which are indicated by beingv

enclosed within square brackets: also each of the ten Books

of which the work consists is now furnished with a passage which

may serve as a motto. A discussion of the question whether

 Cause and Efl'ect are successive or simultaneous, which was one

of the Essays at the end of the second volume of the Philosophy,

is transferred to these volumes. The Novum Organon Renovatum

is a reproduction of part of the second volume of the second

edition of the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, namely of
Books XI and XIII and the Aphorisms. Bacon's well-known work

is called Novum Organum: it is not obvious why Dr Whewell

224 NOVUM ORGANON RENOVATUM.

preferred the Greek form Organon. The title-page has the words
with large additions; these are principally given in two parts of
the book. Pages 2371.246 are almost all new; they relate to the
application of inductive truths to the explanation of natural phe
nomena, and to the improvement of the processes of the Arts.
Pages 346...370 are entirely new; they are entitled Further
Illustrations of the Aphorisms on Scientific Language, from the
recent course of Sciences: the illustrations are derived from

Botany and Comparative Anatomy. The remainder of the original

Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences not comprised in these two
works of 1858 was reproduced in the Philosophy of Discovery,

published in 1860.

    A valuable suggestion occurs in a letter to Dr Whewell from

the late Sir G. C. Lewis, dated Nov. 3, 1859, which may find an
appropriate place here. "Will you allow me to suggest that your
third part on the Philosophy of Induction would be much en--
riched by a full exposition of the theory of Eaperiment. When

I Iwrote my work on Political Method, was unable to find,

either in your writings or elsewhere, a satisfactory explanation

of the nature and limits of experiment. It is commonly assumed

that all the physical sciences are experimental, whereas it is only
a few of them which admit of experiment. The majority of
them--as Astronomy, Geology, Natural History, Physiology--
are purely sciences of observation. Even the Political and Moral

Sciences admit of experiment to a greater extent than many, if
                                                                                                                                             '

not most; of the physical sciences."

      Suggestions respectfully ofi'ered to the Cambridge University
 Commissioners. This is an octavo pamphlet of 13 pages; it is

marked For the Commissioners only. Dr Whewell states his objec

tions to various principles which the Commissioners recommended ;
such as the opening of the Fellowships to general competition,
the limitation of the tenure to a fixed number of years, and the
contributions of the Colleges to the funds of the University.

     An octavo pamphlet of 11 pages; is marked For the Fellows

only. It invites the Fellows of Trinity College to record their

dissent from certain propositions of the University Parliamentary
Commissioners. One of these propositions was, that clerical

. CLERICAL FELLOWSH'IPSJ  225

Fellows like others, were 'to vacate their fellowships at the end
of ten years after the standing of M.A.; but to retain for ten

years more the right of succession to a college living. Dr-Whewell
says: " To any such Rule as this, there is an obvious objection in

its extreme cruelty to the clerical Fellows.) A clerical Fellow is

put out of his Fellowship at ten years' standing from M.A.: and
is allowed to take a College living till twenty years' standing: but
what is he to live on' in the intervening ten years? His profes
sion we know, will not necessarily suPport him..." But it is

difficult to see how the clerical Fellow is worse off than the lay

Fellow. In the case of the lay Fellow the question is not how he

is to live for ten years, but how he is to live permanently; his
profession we know will not necessarily support him. Moreover,

there is one great advantage in the clerical profession, that it
requires no long and costly training like that of a barrister or a

physician; and the numerous valuable educational appointments

which1are practically if not necessarily limited to clergymen, give

them opportunities which are denied to laymen.

    In the year 1859, Robert Leslie Ellis, brother of Dr Whewell's

second wife, died after a long and painful illness. . There has
probably been no member' of the University in recent times to

whom could be-more justly applied the words ascribed to Newton

with respect to the early death of Cotes--if he had lived we
should have known something. _He had consulted Dr Whewell
with respect to his very acute paper on the Theory of Probability,

and on the other hand he contributed valuable aid in revising'

the Chapters on Roman Law in the Elements of Morality. In

Ithe course of the year Dr Whewell delivered a lecture on Plato at

Leeds, which appears to have been printed, though have not

seen a copy of it; probably it was embodied in the Platonic

Dialogues, the first volume of which appeared in 1859. The

publications of the year consist of the volume just named, which
will be noticed in connexion with the works On Moral Science, an`

account of Barrow and his Academical Times, and a prefatory
notice to the Literary Reinains of Mr Jones. .

     The Rev. Alexander Napier, of Trinity College, edited the

works of Barrow for the Cambridge University Press. The editor

         W, 15

if,226 BARROW AND ms TIMES.

was naturally desirous of the opportunity of connecting the names
of two illustrious Masters of the College, and at his earnest re

quest Dr Whewell contributed to the work a paper entitled
Barrow and his Academical Times as illustrated in his Latin
Works. This paper is published in Vol. IX of the edition, 1859;
it occupies pages I...LV. The illustrations are drawn chiefly from
a volume of Barrow's Latin writings, published by his father after

his death. The paper is very interesting in connexion with
Barrow and with the history of the University during his time.
The passages which are translated give striking evidence of
Barrow's copiousness, not to say redundancy--and this although

Dr Whewell says that he very rudely reduces the dimensions of
Barrow's rhetorical sentences. Dr Whewell adduces evidence on

a point which always interested him, namely, that the Cartesian
system of vortices never made converts at Cambridge: see page VI.

Dr Whewell adopts a much-quoted saying, though he does not
fall into the popular error of attributing it to Bufifon: "In

Barrow we have, so far as we can judge, a striking exemplifica
tion of the saying, that the written style is the living manz" see
page XLVIII. .

     Barrow while holding a fellowship was allowed by Trinity
College to travel, and in his letters to the Master and Fellows

he strongly commends the companions of his academical life.

Dr Whewell draws attention to these praises on his page XIV;
he has, however, printed on his page LIV the formal permission
given to Barrow for travelling, from which it would seem that. he

was officially bound to render some such tribute for the indulgence
received: " provided also that the said I. B. during the term of
his absence shall every year write lettersto the Master and Senior
Fellows, in which he shall acknowledge the benefit..."

     Dr Whewell shews that Barrow quoted from Bacon, and to
this Professor De Morgan alludes in a letter dated Oct. 10, 1859:
"Many thanks for the Bacon which you found in the Barrow.

It all amounts to wondrous little, as you say, Bacon was known

to the Cambridge men generally. How could Bacon be so little
quoted. The conceits of which that age was fond were taken out
of puerility by him--and made into wit and covered with taste.

LITERARY REMAINS OF MR JONES.  227

  And yet they know nothing of him--#to speak of. 'Newton's

 I Isilence is emphatic. When have time and opportunity intend

  to work out the thesis--that Newton was more indebted to the
  schoolmen than to Bacon, and probably better acquainted with

  them."
        The Rev. Richard Jones was one of the earliest friends of

  Dr Whewell, and perhaps on the whole the most intimate; he was
  Professor of Political Economy in the East India College, Hailey
  bury, but best known first as one of the Tithe Commissioners,
  and afterwards as one of the Charity Commissioners. He died
  in 1855, and his widow entrusted his papers to Dr Whewell
  with the view of publishing such as seemed suitable. After some
  time Mr Cazenove, a warm friend and admirer of Mr Jones, wrote

  to Mrs Jones to enquire aboutthe state of the proposed publica
  tion. Mrs Jones sent the letter to Dr Whewell, who invited
  Mr Cazenove to come to Trinity Lodge and assist in a joint
  investigation of the papers. Accordingly a volume was published

  in 1859, entitled, Literary Remains, consisting of Lectures and
  Tracts on Political Economy by the late Rev. Richard Jones...
  Edited with a Prefatory Notice by the Rev. William Whewell,
. D.D.... The volume is in octavo, containing XI and 620 pages;
 Dr Whewell's prefatory notice occupies thirty-two pages. The
 notice is very interesting; it is remarkable, however, to see how
 little trace there is in it of the long and stedfast connexion

  which subsisted between the writer and the subject of the memoir.

  There is no reference to the zealous interest with which Jones's

  work on Rent--the only important publication of his life-time--

 was almost forced into existence by Dr Whewell himself, who

  extracted the manuscript piecemeal from the procrastinating
  author, procured assistance from the University Press towards
 the expenses of publication, and corrected the proofs. For a long
 time too Dr Whewell persisted in urging Mr Jones to continue
 his labours by bringing out his promised work on Wages; but

Jthis was in vain. At the end of his notice Dr Whewell declares.

 that he shall rejoice if Mr ones's friends derive any satisfaction

 from what he has said, and the phrase might almost suggest that

 he had been speaking about a comparative stranger. - In the
                                          ' 15-2

228 ' GREAT sT MARY'S CHURCH.

notice Dr Whewell uses the old talismanic formulae about induc

tion and deduction; and Mr Jones is highly commended as an

inductive philosopher. On page xiii more praise is assigned to
Mr Ricardo than Dr Whewell was accustomed to allow to him

either in print or in his letters. On page xvii a note is aimed at

SJ. Mill withOut naming him; he is charged with disparaging

Mr Jones, while he adopted the classification and the facts of the

work on Rent. The University friends of Jones are named on

page xxi, and the list is interesting, because they were doubtless

for the most part friends also of Dr Whewell himself. At the end
of the notice Dr Whewell mentions Mr Cazenove, and says that to

him properly belongs any credit which the editor of the volume

may deserve. Mr Cazenove still lives and retains his esteem

for Mr Jones and for his fellow labourer in the publication of`

the Remains.                      .

On Jan. 29, 1860, Dr Whewell preached in St Paul's Cathe

dral at the request of the Bishop of London, now the Archbishop

of Canterbury; the sermon will be noticed hereafter. He was

present at the meeting of the British Association at Oxford in
June; and afterwards went to` Spain to observe the total eclipse

of the Sun on July 18. The following are the publications of the

year: Platonic Dialogues, Vol. II, Translation of a passage of

Homer into English Hexameters, a paper relative to St Mary's

Church at Cambridge, a paper submitted to the Board of Visitors

of Greenwich Observatory, an edition of the Mathematical Works

of Barrow, and the Philosophy of Discovery; the first two of

Ithese will be noticed hereafter, and now proceed to the others.

     On the proposed Alterations in Great St Mary's Church; this

is on three octavo pages, dated May 9, 1860. A plan was at that

time under discussion, and afterwards carried into effect, for

removing the Eastern Gallery and making other great alterations

in the internal arrangements of the Church used by the Uni

versity; Dr Whewell thought the alterations undesirable, and

issued this paper in reply to one which advocated them.
      Dr Whewell printed a paper on four octavo pages, which is

Iheaded Private. For the Board of Visitors of Greenwich Ob

servatory; it belongs, think, to the year 1860. The paper

MATHEMATICAL wonxs or BARROW.  229

supports the merits of Hansen's Researches in the Lunar Theory

and Tables against some objections which .had been urged:

J.there is a discussion of the same subject in Sir W. Lubbock's
Theory of the Moon, Part X, 1860. It may be fairly presumed

that Dr Whewell's opinions were formed in reliance on the autho

rity of some friends whom be consulted rather than on his own

investigations.  One sentence runs thus: "Sir J. Lubbock

expresses his opinion, in which he conceives MM. Plana and

Pontécoulant to concur with him, that Mr Hansen's is rather a

Iretrograde than a progressive step in the Lunar Theory."

quote these words, which Dr Whewell conceives to express an

erroneous opinion, in order to support them by the judgement

of the present Astronomer Royal, given in the Monthly Notices of
the Royal Astronomical Society, Jan. 1874:. While great praise is

awarded to Hansen for his discoveries and his Tables, the general

form of his theory is characterised as "a retrograde step."

   I have next to notice The Mathematical Works of Isaac

Barrow, D.D., Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. Edited for
Trinity College, by W Whewell, D.D., Master of the College, 1860.

This is` an octavo volume of about 800 pages, besides numerous

plates of diagrams. Dr Whewell contributed a preface of ten
pages. In the main the work consists of three sets of lectures,

the Lectiones Mathematicae, the Lectiones Opticae, and the Lec

tiones Geometricae ; in the case of the first Dr Whewell annexes
"at the foot of the page, a brief summary of their contents, which

may enable the English reader to trace the general course of the

argument." The first paragraph of the preface explains the occa

sion of the publication. "It was thought right, by Barrow's

College, that a new edition of his Mathematical Works should

accompany the edition of his Theological Works, lately published

by the University, under the editorial care of Mr Napier; and
I have willingly undertaken to superintend the printing of the
Iedition thus agreed upon.
                            have already, in the Preface to

Vol. IX of Mr Napier's edition, given an account of Barrow's

Imathematical writings; but for the sake of convenience will

here resume the subject."

The Philosophy of Discovery appeared in 1860 in one volume

230  . PHILOSOPHY OF DISCOVERY.

small octavo, ranging with the last edition of the History of the
Inductive Sciences. The text consists of a republication of
Book XII of the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences with ad
ditional matter nearly equal in bulk; the Table of Contents

prefixed to the volume indicates the additional matter, and
points out the portions of it which had already appeared in print.

Besides various shorter passages the pages 238...399 consist of

Chapters not contained in the original Philosophy; they treat
of the following subjects: Mr Mill's Logic, Political Economy

as an Inductive Science, Modern German Philosophy, The
Fundamental Antithesis as it exists in the Moral World, Of the
Philosophy of the Infinite, Sir William Hamilton on Inertia and

Weight, Influence of German Systems of Philosophy in Britain,
Necessary Truth is progressive, The Theological bearing of the

Philosophy of Discovery, Man's Knowledge of God, Analogies
of Physical and Religious Philosophy. An Appendix is formed

of tenv Essays which had all originally been published in the.

Memoirs of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, except the

Remarks on Sir J. Herschel's Review of the History and the

Philosophy. There were six Essays at the end of the second

edition of the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences; one as we
have seen appears in the History of Scientific Ideas, three are
among the ten of the Philosophy of Discovery; and the other
two are omitted, namely one On the Nature of the Truth of the
Laws of Motion, and one On Mathematical Reasoning and on the
Logic of Induction: the last however remained in print in the

Mechanical Euclid.

    It seems to me a matter of regret that the original Philosophy

of the Inductive Sciences was broken up into the three works
which appeared in 1858 and 1860; it becomes somewhat difficult

to discover where the Philosophy really resides. The whole work
as published in 1840 and republished in 1847 bears the title of

the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences; on the other hand in the
Introduction to the History of Scientific Ideas, page 17, we are
told that the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences " contains these

two parts, The History of Scientific Ideas, and the Novum Organon
Renovatum." Thus Book XII of the original work seems now

MR MILL'S LOGIC.  231

not to'be considered as part of such Philosophy. In the Novum

IOrganon Renovatwm, page 142, Dr Whewell says, " would present

to the reader the Philosophy, and if possible, the Art of Dis

coveryz" thus according to this statement the Philosophy of

Discovery is the subject of the latter part of the Novum Organon

Renovatum. But the volume which is now called the Philosophy

of Discovery is something different from this Novum Organon
Renovatum, and only half of it appeared in the original Philo--
sophy of the Inductive Sciences: moreover in the preface to the

volume of 1860 we are told respecting the original work " the

IPhilosophy at which aimed was not the Philosophy of Induction,
but the Philosophy of Discovery." It seems difficult to harmonise

these contradictions into a distinct and consistent statement of

the design of the original work and of the separate pieces into

which it was finally decomposed. In particular the relation

between the Novu-m Organon Renovatum and the Philosophy of

Discovery is hard to define.
     But setting aside the uncertainty as to the precise place

which it occupies in Dr Whewell's system, the Philosophy of Dis
covery may be pronounced one of the most interesting of his
works: much of it is critical, and as a critic his ability is con

spicuous. The Chapter which reviews Mill's Logic is especially
deserving of study; it is always striking even when not con

Ivincing. On some of the points discussed venture however to
Iside with Mr Mill; thus agree with him in considering Bacon

wrong in enunciating " as a universal rule that induction should

proceed from the lowest to the middle principles, and from these

Ito the highest, never reversing that order...." And go far with

Mr Mill in his estimate of the relative importance of Deduction
and Induction, which Dr Whewell condemns in his page 282.2841;
many persons perhaps will be content to be classed, with Mr Mill,
among the " common minds " of Dr Whewell's page 267. On

   ge 243 Dr Whewell speaks of the different ways in which he
and Mr Mill understand the term Induction: it would have been
more convenient if each of the writers had invented a word for

himself, and used it in his own sense, instead of disputing as to I
the proper application of a word involving so much controversy.

232 numerous 'PHILOSOPHY.

     The discussion`on Comte which this volume containsiinicom

mon with the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences may be supple
mented by the Article on the subject which Dr Whewell pub
lished in Maomillan's Magazine in 1866; and the discussion

on Plato by the three volumes entitled Platonic Dialogues for
                                                                            '

English Readers.

   IIn the last three Chapters of the Philosophy of Discovery, the

titles of which have given above, Dr Whewell brings his doc
trines to bear on religious philosophy. He says on his page 354',

"I 'have hitherto abstained in a great measure from discussing

religious doctrines; but such a reserve carried too far must

deprive our philosophy of all completeness. No philosophy of

science can be complete which is not also a philosophy of the
universe; and no philosophy of the universe can satisfy thought
ful men, which does not include a reference to the power by which
the universe came to be what it is." He then proceeds to remarks
on the Divine Mind similar to those which are briefly suggested
in Chapter XII, SectiOn 5 of the Essay on the Plurality of Worlds.

In the course of these remarks there seem indications of the
necessity which the author felt of limiting the range of his

favourite doctrine of Fundamental Ideas mOre closely than he
had formerly supposed. Thus after mentioning the sciences of
Geometry, Arithmetic, Chemistry, Classification and Physiology as
involving such Ideas, he says on page 372: "To these we might
have added a few others; as the sciences which deal with Light,
Heat, Polarities; Geology and the other Palaetiological Sciences;
and there our enumeration at present must stop. For we can
hardly as yet claim to have Sciences, in the rigorous sense in
which we use the term, about the Vital Powers of man, his Mental
PoWers, his historical attributes, as Language, Society, Arts, Law,
and the like. On these subjects few philosophers will pretend to
exhibit to us Ideas of universal validity, prevailing through all
the range of observation." Again, .on page 386, "Only a few
sciences have made much progress; none are complete; most

have advanced only a step or two. In none have we reduced
all the Facts to Ideas. In all or almost all the unreduced Facts

are. far more numerous and extensive than those which have

                 IMMORTALITY or THE SOUL.                                                      233

been reduced. The general mass of the facts of the universe

are mere facts, unsubdued to the rule of science."

The strictly scientific writings of Dr Whewell endwith the

Philosophy of Discovery, and in no unworthy manner; the last
paragraphs draw an argument for the Immortality of the Soul

from the intellectual and moral progress of which it is susceptible.
A few sentences may be extracted though their efl'ect is diminished
by separation from the context. "And when we contemplate a

human character which has, through a long course of years, and

through many trials and conflicts, made a large progress in this

career of melioration, and is still capable, if time be given, of

further progress towards moral perfection, is it not reasonable to

suppose that He who formed man capable of such progress, and

who, as we must needs believe, looks with approval on such

progress where made, will not allow this progress to stop when

it has gone on to the end of man's short earthly life? Is it not

rather reasonable to suppose that the pure and elevated and all

embracing affection, extinguishing all vices and including all

virtues, to which the good man thus tends, shall continue to

prevail in him as a permanent and ever-during condition, in a

life after this  Similar remarks occur in a very early manu
                 'l"
                                                                                            a
script written by Dr Whewcll, suggested by the last sentence in

the fourth paragraph of Sir J. Herschel's Discourse on Natural

Philosophy.

    In 1861, Dr Whewell travelled in Switzerland in the summer.

He published the third volume of his Platonic Dialogues in this

year.

    In 1862 he was present at the meeting of the British Associa

tion at Cambridge. He was very strongly in favour of the North

in the civil war which broke out in the American States; his old

antagonist Mr Mill was delighted to find that they agreed in

opinion on this important question. It appears from                                            letter

addressed to'him by his friend Mr Everett, formerly the United

States ambassador to England, that Dr Whewell thought the

arrest of Messrs Mason and Slidell warranted by the doctrines

of belligerent rights and the duties of neutrals as hitherto under

stood and enforced by Great Britain. The writings of the

234 LORD BAoox's LIFE.

year consist of two articles relating to English Hexameters to
be noticed hereafter, a note on Bacon, and Lectures on Political

Economy.

    A note from Dr Whewell to W. Hepworth Dixon occupies

about half a column of page 661 of the Athenmum for May 17,

1862. The first two sentences explain the purport of the note.
"I have again to thank you for your kindness in sending me
Iyour `Story of Lord Bacon's Life.'
                                     have read it through, and

cannot understand how it can fail to convince readers of the

absurd injustice of the representations of Bacon's character and

history given by Macaulay and Campbell." The note is followed
by a letter of three columns addressed to Mrs Anne Sadler a
daughter of Lord Coke, which Dr Whewell caused to be tran

scribed from the original in the Library of Trinity College.
     Six Lectures on Political Economy delivered at Cambridge

in Michaelmas Term, 1861...Cambridge: printed at the University
Press, 1862. This is an octavo volume; it consists of a Half Title,
the Title Preface and Contents on viii pages, and the text on
102 pages. The volume was not published, but Dr Whewell
distributed copies among his friends. The lectures were delivered to
the Prince of Wales and a few other students; the preface well`
deserves to be reproduced here: "The following Lectures were

delivered at the request of one of the wisest and best fathers

who have ever lived, for the instruction of a son on whose

education he bestowed much careful thought: and indeed that

education was a matter of national as well as of family concern.

IHe kindly judged that could deliver a short course of Lectures

on Political Economy which might forward his purpose: and

I willingly undertook the task, rendered acceptable by the prospect
Iof submitting to him afterwards the purport of what had said

in the Lectures; and of having the gratification and the ad

vantage of hearing his remarks, instructive and interesting as they
Ialways were. This satisfaction
                                    was not permitted to enjoy,

The Allwise Disposer did not allow the father to see with his

earthly eyes the completion of his well-devised plans for his

Ison's education: though doubt not that those plans will bear

their fruit in national blessings.

LECTURES 0N POLITICAL ECONOMY.  235

   I"The scheme of the following Lectures will, hope, carry with

it its own excuse. It seemed to me unwise on such an occasion

to aim at any originality beyond that which selects the best

passages of writers of acknowledged authority and weighs them
against one another. And though the extracts given in the
earlier of the following Lectures may by some be thought lightly

of, as being common-places, they are common-places which young
men of rank, such as those to whom these Lectures were ad

dressed, ought to know, and which they were not likely to learn

IUnless they were brought before them in some such way as this.

The later extracts and the reflexions which have added to them

Iwill be found, think, to contain views of which the importance

is now only beginning to be duly felt."
     The plan of selecting what Dr Whewell calls standard and

classical passages from the best writers on Political Economy

has the merit of leading to a very interesting volume; but
considering the elementary purpose which the Lectures were

designed to promote, seems liable to one objection. Writers on
Political Economy do not perfectly agree as to the meaning of

some of the important terms of the science; now if we study

the whole of any author attentively we shall be able to determine
precisely the sense he attaches to his technical language: but a
beginner who has before him only short extracts from various
works will scarcely obtain evidence sufficient for certainty as to
the exact force of propositions which discordant theorists enun

ciate, each in his peculiar dialect.

      The part of the work in which the author expresses most
decisively his own opinions is where he treats of the cause which
has produced the rise of rents in England in modern times; he
undertakes to prove that this has not resulted from the cause
which Mr Ricardo assigned, namely, the rise of prices in conse

quence of the increased difficulty of production. For if such
were the cause the rent would necessarily become a larger fraction
of the produce--which is contrary to observed facts. He estab
lishes the proposition just enunciated by the aid of numerical

examples, but the process is rather strange.
     Rent is defined as the produce of the land diminished by the

236                 ARGUMENT AGAINST RICARDO.

cost of cultivation. Suppose that the cost of cultivation is £10

per acre; and that we have land A of the best quality of which
the produce is worth £12 an acre, land B of the next quality of

which the produce is worth £10 an acre, and land G of the worst

quality of which the produce is werth £8 an acre. In this case
the land 0 would remain uncultivated, since the expense would

be greater than the (produce. The whole produce would be
12 + 10 that is 22; the whole cost would be 10 + 10 that is 20.

                    a
                                             2%,
                                                         is

                                                        Tli,
Hence the rent is 2, and it is                           that  of the whole produce.

Now let there be rise in the value of produce, say to the extent

of one-fourth of the original price. The produce of A becomes

          12  that  15; the produce of B becomes 10+ 10 that
                                                                               in 4
12+?                                                                                   ,
0'                                                                                             is
            ,
                         is

                           0
12%; the produce of becomes 8+§, that                                          this case
                                                               is it      10.

    would come into cultivation, though would yield no rent.        +
The whole produce would now be 15 + 12% 10, that 37% the              is
'whole cost would be 10+10+ 10 that 30. Hence the rent
                                                                               is

                                                                                              ;

is
              it
                      is

                                       1}3],;--

                   isi

                                                      0
7%, and             that                               of the whole produce.

Then Dr Whewell says:

     "The numbers in this case result from the supposition that theis

quantities of each of the kinds of land A, B, are equal.             C',
    "But the general result, that the rent a greater portion of

the produce at the latter stage than at the former, does not depend

on any supposition as to Quantities. It will be the same, what

ever be the quantities of different kinds of land.
     " For each kind of land will have the rent a greater fraction

at the latter stage than at the former; and therefore all the frac

tions at the latter stage, multiplied by their quantities, and added

together, must be greater than at the former stage."

    It with respect to the last paragraph that wish to make a

remark. The result which Dr Whewell states will be obvious in
a
           is

                                               is
                                                                 is

                                              I
moment to a person who                                   acquainted with the elements of

Algebra, whatever he the quantity of each kind of land, and

whether the expense of cultivation the same or not fordifi'er

VARIOUS KINDS or RENT.'.  237`

ent kinds of land, assuming only that it is constant' for each
kind: but the method which Dr Whewell suggests for obtaining
the result is unsatisfactory. In the first place, if it is obvious

to any person that for each kind of land the rent is a greater

fraction at the latter stage than the former, then to such a person

the whole theorem is obvious; whatever consideration satisfies

him with respect to each kind of land will be found to apply

to the aggregate. In the second place, the argument which
Dr Whewell offers in the latter clause of the paragraph is useless,
for it will not warrant the conclusion that the whole rent is a

greater fraction of the whole produce in the second case than in

the first.

Dr Whewell speaks very highly of the work on Rent published

by Mr Jones; and on the last page seems to anticipate with con

fident satisfaction the ultimate disappearance of the various kinds

Iof Rent described in that work except that called Farmers' Rents.
  do not know what are the reflea'ions to which allusion is made
at the close of the preface, except it be to what is contained

in the last page of the text. By mistake Dr Whewell gives

the name Pons Asinorum to the fourth Proposition of Euclid's
Elements: see his page 61.

There are some interesting letters'preserved amongDrWhewell's

papers from friends to whom he sent copies of his Lectures. From

Ione of them extract the following passage: "During the late

French war Rents were very high in England; partly, no doubt,

arising from the depreciation of the currency, and partly from the

fact that we did not grow enough for our own consumption, and

the difficulty of importation. But Ricardo was so imbued with

the notion that the main cause of the rise was owing to the

necessity, he supposed we were under, of cultivating inferior soils,

that he sold out a large sum of government stock and invested
Ifthe amount in land.
                       he had waited a few years longer, he

would have sold his stock 30 per cent. higher, and bought his

land 30 per cent. cheaper, which he afterwards found to his cost."

A brilliant but paradoxical writer, well-known for his works con--

nected with art, gave to it' probably the highest praise he could in

Isaying, "Like all other books ever opened, from Adam Smith

238 ARCHITECTURE AND MUSIC.

downwards, written by clever men on this subject, it fills me

Iwith wonder... You know (I suppose by your sending me the

book) that am entirely opposed to all the modern views on this

subject." In Fraser's Magazine for April 1863 there is an article
on Political Economy, and a note refers to the opinions on Interest

collected by Dr Whewell on page 41 of his Lectures; the writer
says, " ...it never seeming to occur to the mind of the compiler,
any more than to the writers whom he quotes, that it is quite

possible, and even (according to Jewish proverb) prudent, for men

to board, as ants and mice, for use, not usury, and lay by some

thing for winter nights, in the expectation of rather sharing than

lending the scrapings."

    In 1863 Mr J. Evelyn Denison requested Dr Whewell to con

tribute to a work which he had suggested, and which is called

after him the Speaker' 8 Commentary on the Bible. Mr Denison

wished to have a "statement of the present relations between

Iscience and revelation;" but presume Dr Whewell did not

accede to' the request.

    A paper entitled Of certain Analogies between Architecture

and the other Fine Arts, by Dr Whewell, was read at the ordinary

General Meeting of the Royal Institute of British Architects, on

March 9th, 1863, and occupies pages 175...181 of the volume

containing the published Papers of the Institute of that date.

The most curious part of the paper is the analogy pointed out
I "Ibetween Architecture and Music.
                quote a few words:                                           do

not know whether this comparison of exterior architecture to
melody, and of interior architecture to harmony, will seem to my
hearers too fanciful to be tolerated. To me it seems to be some

I Ithing very real; and think may venture to say, that if any

lover of architecture will, in looking at edifices, give up his mind

it,

                   a of
                           it

                                                                         of
to he will find that may serve to bind together many floating
thoughts that, however vague and fugitive, are not without their

value as elements of the enjoyments of art."                                 Her

  > A Blue-Book was issued in 1864, entitled Report

Majesty's Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Revenues

and Management  certain Colleges and Schools... Vol. II. This

contains on page 43 letter from Dr Whewell on School Education.

            5 UNIVERSITY PAPERS.                239

He gives a summary of the opinions he had expressed on some

leading points of the subject in his work Of a Liberal Education.
"IThe letter concludes thus:
                                   had also at an earlier period

(I believe in 1837) written a little book, ` On the principles of

English University Education;' but this treats the subject in a
Imore general manner, and do not mention it as at present
Iworthy of the notice of the Commissioners.
                                             send herewith a
Icopy of the book to which have referred." Large extracts from

the Liberal Education are printed on pages 43...47 of the Blue

Book.

Three papers relating to University matters belong to the

year 1864.

    Reasons for voting against the purchase of Colonel Leahe's
Collection of Coins. This consists of three quarto pages, dated

Feb. 22, 1864. It was proposed to buy the coins for £5000 out

of the funds belonging to the Fitzwilliam Museum. Dr Whewell

  thought that the money could be better spent in finishing the

' Fitzwilliam Building, and that coins were not very suitable

 objects for the Museum. A reply to the paper was issued by

  Mr Churchill Babington, now Professor of Archaeology in the

University, and the coins were purchased and placed in the

Museum.

     The Professor's Certificate. This consists of four quarto pages,
dated Trinity Lodge, March 8, 1864. Its object is to uphold a

regulation which had been established for about fourteen years

in the University, enforcing the attendance of Candidates for

the Ordinary Degree on a course of Professorial Lectures on some
                                             \
part of Moral or Natural Science.

     The last of the three papers consists of three quarto pages,
addressed by Dr Whewell to the Fellows of his College, urging

them to maintain the institution of F ellow-Oommoners which it

was proposed to abolish.           .

Dr Whewell's second wife, Lady Affleck, died on April 1,

1865.

    On Feb. 24, 1866, Dr Whewell met with an accident while

riding on horseback, and died on March 6. The last book which

he had read before his accident was Sir E. B. Lytton's Tales of

240                    COMTE AND POSITIVISM.

Miletus; on this he made some remarks to the author, who
acknowledged himself much gratified by the kind reception given

to his little volume.

Two Magazine articles belong to the year 1866, one of them

published after Dr Whewell's death.           I

Comte and Positivism. This article was published in Mac

millan's Magazine, March, 1866, pages 353...362. The article is

founded on two relating to Comte, one by J. S. Mill, first pub

lished in the Westminster Review, and one by G. H. Lewes in the
Fortnightly Review. Dr Whewell's article is very interesting, and

we may notice especially the high praise which he awards to his

old antagonist, then recently elected Member of Parliament for',

WestminSter. Dr Whewell says: "We have especially the great

authority of Mr J. S. Mill calling upon us to give again our

attention to M. Comte and his philosophy. No authority of our

own time can be greater than this. Beside Mr Mill's profound

philosophical thought and wide sphere of knowledge, the dignity

of his position naturally makes us look where he points. His

love of truth and fearlessness of consequences have given him an

eminence which all must rejoice to see generally acknowledged.

It is no small glory of our times, that one of our most popular

constituencies has fully and practically adopted the great Platonic
maxim, that it will never go well with the world till our rulers

are philosophers, or our philosophers rulers." The unfavourable

opinion which Dr Whewell in his Philosophy of the Inductive
Sciences had expressed of Comte is maintained in this article.

It is said that "his pretensions to discoveries are, as Sir John

JHerschel has shown, absurdly fallaciousz" see also the Philo

sophy of Discovery, page 275. The reference to Sir ohu Herschel

seems to apply to a passage in the address which he delivered as

President of the British Association in 1845, and reprinted on

page 666 of his Essays.

Dr Whewell makes some interesting remarks on the followers of
ISaint Simon: " The Saint-Simonians formed a very striking epoch
in French speculation.   think M. Comte's admirers have not

done them justice. There are, perhaps, not many Englishmen

who now recollect to have read their writings when they were

        Gnorn's PLATO.         241

published (about 1820 and after); but those who do must regard
them as very striking works. Most readers at that time were

deeply impressed by the largeness, subtlety, and ingenuity of
their views of society. Their doctrine of the alternation of

critical periods and organic periods was really a startling

theory, bringing together in a general view many historical facts."
Dr Whewell quotes part of the same passage about the eye as in

the last edition of his Bridgewater Treatise, and comments on it

in a similar manner: see page 71. The comic lines at the end of
the article, "Thus did the youth...," occur in a manuscript by the

Ilate Mr Drinkwater Bethune, Feb. 7, 1848; do not know if they

are in print elsewhere.

    Grote's Plato. This article was published in Fraser's Magazine
for April, 1866, pages 4:12...423; it was not quite finished by the

author, and was put into a fit state for printing by the Rev.

H. R. Luard, the Registrary of the University. A short notice

respecting Dr Whewell and his works is prefixed to the article.
    In the article Mr Grote is praised " for having rejected an

established system of vilifying and misrepresenting Plato's oppo
nents, the Sophists, and ascribing to them in every thing that they

say, sophistry in its modern English meaning." On the other
hand it is suggested that " Mr Grote has not thoroughly purged

himself of an established system of seeing everywhere a profound

meaning and a solid philosophy in the Platonic Dialogues, or at
least steps towards such a philosophy." This is the main point
in the article; it is illustrated at some length by an examination

of the  To an English reader we may exemplify the differ

ence of opinion by saying it amounts to this; Mr Grote might

:class the Lgsis with Berkeley's Three Dialogues between Hglas
and Philonous, while Dr Whewell might class it with Mrs

.Barbauld's Evenings at Home, or Mrs Marcet's Conversations.
Dr Whewell also combats Mr Grote's notion that none of the

Platonic Dialogues were published before the death of Socrates.

The article contains no substantial addition to the matter which

we find in the author's Platonic Dialogues for English Readers,

but is interesting as putting his special opinion in a prominent

form.   ~-              -~  ~

       w. 16

                                                                `

CHAPTER XIV.

MORAL PHILOSOPHY.

IIN the present Chapter shall notice the writings of Dr Whewell

connected with Moral Philosophy; they are as follows:              `

Preface to Mackintosh's Dissertation, 1835.

On the Foundations of Morals. Four Sermons, 1837.

Two introductory Lectures to twocourses of Lectures, 1841.

Elements of Morality including Polity, 1845.

Lectures on Systematic Morality, 1846.

Butler's Three Sermons on Human Nature, 1848.

Butler's Six Sermons on Moral Subjects, 1849.

Sanderson's Lectures, De Obligatione Oonscientiae, 1851.

JLectures on the History of Moral Philosophy in England, 1852.

Hugonis Grotii de ure Belli et Pacis Libri Tres, 1853.

 Platonic Dialogues for English Readers, 1859...1861.

Sir James Mackintosh contributed to the Seventh edition of

the Encyclopwdia Britannica a Dissertation exhibiting a general

view of the Progress of Ethical Philosophy, chiefly during the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Dr Whewell thought it

would be convenient for students to have this Dissertation apart

from the Encyclopaedia, and he seems in 1835 to have urged the
publishers to issue it in a distinct volume, offering to contribute

a preface. The publishers accordingly accepted the proposal.

vDr Whewell submitted the manuscript of his preface to his

friends Mr Jones and Dr Holland; the latter had disCussed the

original Dissertation with Mackintosh before its publication. See
Sir H. Holland's Recollections, page 239.

     The Dissertation with Dr Whewell's Preface first appeared in
Dec. 1835; it has been reprinted at various times. The earliest

                 PREFACE TO MACKINTOSH.         2143

Iedition have seen is dated 1837. In 1852 both appeared in the

eighth edition of the Encyclopwdia Britannica; here a few brief

notes are added to the Preface, dated 1852. The publishers in

1861 asked Dr Whewell for any notes he might have to be used in
Ia new edition ; do not know whether he gave any : the last edition
I Iwhich have seen is dated 1872.
Iissue of 1852.                    have read the preface in the

                 may remark that the text of the Dissertation

seems to have been inadequately revised. On page 2941 for
Iaddition we must,
                     presume, read edition; on page 42s the

statement that Brougham wrote the Pursuit of Knowledge under

IDifiiculties should not be allowed to remain; on page 442 for

proscribed we must, presume, read prescribed.

The Preface is intended to give an account of Mackintosh's

own views and reasonings; they are delivered in various parts

of the Dissertation, and Dr Whewell renders good service to

students by collecting them, arranging them, and supplying an

appropriate 00mmentary. Thus, in the Preface, Mackintosh is

contemplated not as a critic and historian, but as an independent

contributor to Ethical Philosophy. Notwithstanding these original

portions, however, the Dissertation is mainly a review of the

Works of other writers, and it would hate been profitable to invite

attention to one of its most distinct characteristics. From native

kindness of disposition, and from an eclectic habit of mind,

Mackintosh was strongly disposed to take the most favourable

view of every author and every system that came before his
tribunal: it has been well said of him that " he was tolerant even

of mediocrity" (Sir H. Holland's Recollections, page 239). Hence

there is naturally some want of discrimination in the praise

which he delights to award; and a reader who wishes to detect

his more valuable remarks, must watch carefully for the slight

ripples of dissatisfaction which break the stately flow of his

panegyric. A simple example will suffice, taken from his account
_of Butler. It might at first appear that this account is extremely

favourable, but a careful reader 'will see that Mackintosh was

much dissatisfied with what is usually held to be the essential

/element of the Morality of Butler, namely, the So-called supre
                     Mackintosh says, page 362: " He makes
macy of Conscience.

                                         16--2

244 conscrnncn.

no attempt to determine in what state `of'mind the action of

conscience consists. He does vnot venture steadily to denote it

by a name. He fluctuates between different appellations, and

multiplies the metaphors of authority and command, without a

simple exposition of that mental operation which these metaphors

should only have illustrated. It commands other principles. But

the question recurs, why or how 2" His opinion is still more

clearly seen in a familiar letter, page 294: "...I have endea

voured to slip in a foundation under Butler's doctrine of the

supremacy of conscience, which he left baseless." Dr Whewell

says in one of the notes to the Preface, dated 1852 : "The use of

the term Supremacy, as ascribed to the conscience, is liable to

convey an erroneous and dangerous doctrine, that every one's

conscience is for him the supreme rule of right and wrong. The

word Authority, which is all that Butler and Mackintosh's argu

ment requires, avoids this inconvenience." This is followed by

references to Whewell's edition of Butler's Three Sermons, and. to

Whewell's Elements of lllorality.
     The notice of the Life of Dr Whewell which is contained in

the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, Vol. xxvn,

mentions among his works " his .Metaphysical Introductions to

the Encyclopaedias." The Preface to Mackintosh is the only                   '

foundation for this absurd phrase.

    Mr Hallam in acknowledging the receipt of the book alluded

'to' difficulties which he felt as to the theory maintained in the

Dissertation and the Preface;v the old objections he thought

'Were not removed against the existence of a moral faculty, as

standard of right and wrong, drawn frOm the great diversity `of
'a'

                                                                         it
emotions connected with acti0ns which we find among mankind.

Nearly twenty years later; on looking at the book again, he was

surprised to find some hasty and incorrect expressions due to

Mackintosh which had been left unnoticed. "Is not strange
he should charge all moral philosophers with confounding the

theory of moral sentiments with the criterion of virtue, when

Adam Smith has so fully distinguished them at great length, by

pointing out the several theories with respect to each?" Dr Pye

Smith drew the attention of Dr Whewell to Wardlaw's Christian

FOUNDATIONS or MORALS.  245

 Ethics, saying that the " fourth edition contains valuable additions

Iin reference to these topics and to yourself, Chalmers, Mackintosh."

         have next to notice the publication entitled 0n the Form
 dations of Morals. Four Sermons preached before the University
 of Cambridge, November 1837. These sermons were printed very
 soon after their delivery; a second edition appeared in 1839;
 this contains, in addition to the original publication, a preface
 to the second edition, and a Syllabus of the Sermons. The

 second edition consists of xx and 76 octavo pages. The Sermons

 were reprinted in America, as appears from a letter written to
 Dr Whewell by C. S. Henry of New York, April 20, 1839. The

 Sermons are dedicated to J. C. Hare, Rector of Hurstmonceaux:

Iand an allusion to a well-known work by Hare and his brother

 is contained in the words: "Yet to you may say, without any

 doubt of receiving your assent, that this employment of Guessing

 at Truth, is both in itself praiseworthy, and if carried on with
 a humble trust in the Divine Giver of all Truth, is full of deep

 and wide sources of practical blessing."
      The Four Sermons bear the following titles: Conscience is

 the evidence of God's righteousness; Conscience requires cultiva
 tion; Conscience is in accordance with God's government; Moral
 Good is superior in kind to Pleasure. The last sermon contains

 some strong censure of two of the principles of Paley's Moral

 Philosophy. The Preface alludes to this, and might suggest the
 notion that it is the main drift of the Sermons: but though the
 first three Sermons in treating on Conscience may implicitly be in
 opposition to Paley, yet it is only in the fourth that he is

 explicitly attacked. In the original Preface Dr Whewell alludes

 to the construction of a detailed system of Ethics on the founda~

 tion laid in the Sermons; he says: "It appears to me that such

 Ian undertaking is both possible and highly interesting; but, even

 if felt myself prepared for such a task, other avocations and

I_ objects with which am already engaged, would probably long

 prevent my making the attempt." The principal work then on

 his hands was the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences to succeed
 the History which had recently been issued; subsequently be
 published a system of Ethics,,namely his Elements of Morality.

246  MB HARE's OPINION.

At the end of the original Preface Dr Whewell announces his

intention of editing a selection of Butler's Sermons, with a, few

illustrations. Shortly afterwards he was appointed Professor of

Moral Philosophy; and he says at the end of the Preface to the
second edition: "And as it has, since that time, become my

business to give a more continued attention to the subject of

IMoral Philosophy, have laid aside, at least for the present, this

temporary project." The intention was, however, executed in.
                                                                                                                                                                         '

1848 and 1849.

With respect to the Four Sermons, it may be remarked that

from their nature they are exhortations rather than discussions;

the work of a preacher rather than of a professor: and as such

they have high merit, being earnest and persuasive. But the

agreement does not seem very close. between these addresses and
the systematic treatise which Dr Whewell afterwards published:

the authority of Conscience is not made so prominent in the

treatise as might have been anticipated from the importance

which is here assigned to it. In a rhetorical passage towards the

end of the first sermon, the preacher gives his sanction to a

common, but probably inadmissible sense, of a well-known passage,
" When day shall cease to. utter forth to day and night to night;

when the angel shall swear that there shall be time no longer:..."
    Mr Hare was much gratified by the dedication of the Sermons,

and a few extracts may be given from his letter of thanks, dated
Hurstmonceux, Jan. 4, 1838: " The honour itself is one in which

I should feel great pride, if pride were not overpowered by.

stronger and far more delightful feelings. Yet a strange wonder

will come over me now and then, that. to me in my littleness

such honours should have befallen as to have books dedicated

to me by Niebuhr and by you." "And it is a very justifiable

piece of irony, that you will not allow the man, who pretends

to correct the orthography of the nation, to know even how

to spell the name of his own parish." Dr Whewell in the '
second edition of his Four Sermons changed his spelling

to Herstmonceax; while Hurstmonoeun is the form which

now seems to be adopted.  Mr Hare after saying- that he

agrees with the preachers main object in heart and mind,

              'rwo INTRODUCTORY LECTURES.          247

alludes to "secondary er tertiary points" in whiCh there might

be some difference.                   In the first text, Romans i. 20, he did

Inot think that St Paul is speaking of God's moral being; he says,

"The Gator-179 is indeed a most puzzling word: but should be
inclined to suppose that the meaning of this one passage is merely

that the visible world shews that there is an Almighty Maker and

IRuler. Besides, am not sure whether you do not strain the

passages from St Paul, in which the word conscience occurs, too

Ifar at the beginning of your second sermon. Sedgwick, thought,

certainly did. You rest less on them. In several of them at

least conscience is nothing more than consciousness, and com

patible with any view as to the origin and nature of our notions

of right and wrong."

     Two introductory lectures to two courses of lectures on Moral
Philosophy, delivered in 1839 and 1841. This is an octavo

pamphlet; the title and dedication occupy iv pages, and the text

52 pages. Part of the dedication to the Rev. Thomas \Vorsley,

IM.A.., Master of Downing College, may be with propriety repro

duced: "My dear Worsley, think you already know that, in

my opinion, one of the greatest pleasures which the writing of

I                                  that we may make them memorials of our

         is
                              is,
books brings

most cherished friendships. The few pages now before you,

   have peculiar and paramount reasons for dedicating to you.

It through your kindness that hold the Professorship in.
                                      I

virtue of which these Lectures were delivered; for the encou

ragement which you gave me when the vacancy occurred, you

being, as Vice-Chancellor, one of the electors, principally induced

me to offer myself as candidate for the oflice. Yet the subject
                                   a

which the Professorship embraces was one which had occupied

your own thoughts so much, that the vacancy might readin
have suggested other wishes to a person who thought more: of

himself and less of others..."

The first of the two lectures was delivered April 22, 1839;

this reproduced in Dr Whewell's Lectures on the History
       is

              of,

                             it

                                                                                         is

                                                                                     of
Moral Philosophy:                     occupies pages 18...39 of the second

edition  that 'work. A paragraph on page 13,0f the original,

which relates to the proposed series of lectures,  omitted in»

248 " EXTRACT FROM LECTURE.

the reprint. The second of the two lectures was delivered

ItFeb. 9, 1841; this does not seem to have been reproduced.

may be said to consist in tracing an analogy between those

Inductive Sciences, to the History and Philosophy of which the

author. had devoted so many years, and the subjects now occu

pying the sphere of his professorial activity. He admits, however,
Ithat, "To many persons, it will,
                                   doubt not, appear (at least

at first sight) a forced and fantastical notion, that any analogy

should exist between the material sciences and moral doctrines,

in regard to the nature of the truths which they contain, and

the mode of arriving at our knowledge." The lecture is inter          '
                                                                     '
esting, but rather vague, and occasionally a little too rhetorical;

A few sentences may be extracted: "The whole world is to

the moralist one vast school, in which he sees a body of pupils

engaged in their various exercises. They repeat and dissert,

they dispute and wrangle, they wrestle and strike; while he
looks on, and listens, and determines in what each is right, in

what wrong; how far he has rightly caught the meaning of

his lesson, how far he is still ignorant and dull. It is a noisy

school; for men's emotions and passions, their hearts and their

swords, happiness and ruin, glory and infamy, courts and prisons,

tribunals and armies,---are the weapons with which their disputes

are carried on. Fierce wars and faithful loves, and all the fierce

and all the loving affections of their nature, moralize their
unceasing outcries. And the moralist must often needs look at

the turmoil with sadness, and mourn over the cost of his own

studies; for the weak and innocent is thrust down, and he
cannot interfere to prevent it. Virtue shivers, and he can

praise, but may not warm her...' "But allow me, before dis

missing this subject, to dwell for a moment longer upon the
I Iimage which have presented to you.
                                          will do so only for

the sake of supplying what many of you will probably think a

strange omission. The moralist looks upon this strange school of
the world, full of pupils of such varied characters and employ

ments; but where then is THE MASTER?..."

     Mr Hare wrote thus to Dr Whewell on March 18, 1841:
"The first lecture on casuistry is interesting, but is scarcely

MR HARE'S OPINION.  249`

Icomplete enough to be substantive, and would have come much

better, think, as an introduction to the course on the history

Iof moral philosophy in England, of which heard seVeral lectures

last year. By the by, there were some good remarks on casuistry,

Iif remember right by De Quincey, in an article on Duelling,

in the February number of Tait. In your second Lecture, as

I Iread it hastily before left home, there seemed to me several
Ithings that could not fully go along with, and that appeared

to me at least to need the being workt out more in detail.
However, they both hold out a promise that much will be done
for Moral Philosophy in Cambridge, and that we shall take a
wiser course than .... ..at Oxford."

     We now arrive at the largest contribution made by Dr Whewell
to Moral Philosophy. He published in 1845 his Elements of
Morality including Polity in two octavo volumes: the pages in
the first volume are xxix and 374, and in the second xxiii

and 401. The second edition of the work appeared in 1848 in

two volumes small octavo; the pages in the first volume are liii

and 388,-and in the second xxi and 286. The original preface

is not reproduced, but there is a new preface which defends

the general scheme of the book, and points out the changes

and the omissions which had been made in the second edition.

The third edition appeared in 1854 in two volumes small octavo;
the pages in the first volume are xxxv and 414, and in the

second xxiv and 338. The third edition is a reproduction

almost page for page of the second, with the addition of a new
preface and a Supplement. The fourth edition appeared in 1864,
in one octavo volume containing x1 and 611 pages; this seems

to coincide with the third edition, with the addition of half a

page at the end. The preface to the fourth edition is almost
identical with that to the third. Thus the work assumed in

the second edition the form which it permanently retained. It

will be sufficient to cite it by the numbers of the Articles, for
this suits any edition after the first. Dr Whewell regretted
that the American booksellers stereotyped his first edition, and
so would not adopt the improvements of his later editions.

The first edition is dedicated to the poet Wordsworth, and the

250 ELEMENTS 0F MORALITY.

date affixed is April 14, 1845; the dedication is omitted in the
second edition, it is reproduced in the third edition, but with
the date unaccountably changed to April 5, 1841; finally it is
omitted in the fourth edition. The poet, in a letter dated

May 12, 1845, returned his acknowledgment of the compliment
"Ipaid to him:
                regretted very much missing you when you

were so good as to call on me in Dover Street, also that

I could not thank you immediately for your two Vols. on the
IElements of Morality, and express my sense of the honor have

received by your dedicating them to me, and that in terms

which all my friends have read with the greatest pleasure;
and indeed you must allow me to say that both for delicate

warmth of feeling and importance of the points touched upon,

I have rarely seen the dedication of a work which was more

honourable to both parties."

     The work is divided into. six Books, with the following Titles:

I. Introduction. Elementary Notions and Definitions. II. Mo

Jrality. Of Virtues and Duties. III. Religion. Of Divine Laws,

and their Sanction. IV. us. Of rights and Obligations. V. Polity.
The Duties of the State. VI. International Jus. Rights and

Obligations between States. Speaking generally it may be said
that Books I and 11 contain all that. is specially characteristic of

the author as a Moral Philosopher. Book III is the work of a

commentator on`the Bible. Book IV consists of a sketch of the

Laws of ancient Rome and modern England. Book V treats
much of the English Constitution. Book V1 is a brief outline

of the relations between nations in War and Peace.

The difference between, the first, and the second edition

consists mainly in the. following particulars: The Book which

is called IV in the list just given was originally Book 11.
"IDr 'Whewell says, in the preface to the second edition:
                                                           have

made this transposition for this among other reasons, that the

ifparts of the work in their former order might possibly suggest
an erroneous view of the, grounds of Morality; as   Jus, or,

Positive Law, were the foundation of moral truths, instead of

being merely a condition of the; application of moral results to

actual cases." .In the first edition the Book err-Religion con".

THE MAIN PRINCIPLES.                                2,51

.tained discussions on Forms of Prayer, the Christian Sabbath,

 and other ordinances. In the second edition these were with

Idrawn. Dr Whewell says, in the preface to the second edition:
"In the present edition     have excluded all that relates to

Christian Ordinances; perceiving that the discussion of such

matters is not a. part of the Moralist's proper province, and
Iinvolves him in various unnecessary difficulties.
                                                    trust that.

none of my readers. will regret the absence of these dismlssions."

There are some emissions from. the Book on Polity. Dr Whewell
"...ISays, in the preface to the second edition;
                                                  have in the

present edition omitted the general statements formerly given

respecting the Relation of Church and State, and have given

Ito the few remarks on this subject which have now intro

duced, an historical turn."

    It will be convenient to give an outline of Dr Whewell's main

principles. He enumerates five classes of Springs of Action,

namely; the Appetites or Bodily Desires ;, the Afi'ections; the

Mental Desires; the Moral Sentiments; and the Reflex Sentiments

Art. 25, The. Springs of Action are distinguished by the nature

of their objects. The Appetites have for their objects, Things;

the, Afl'ections, Persons; the Mental Desires have Abstractions;

the Moral Sentiments, Actions; and the Reflex Sentiments have

for their objects the thoughts of other persons, or our own, about
ourselves, Art, 61, The primary and universal Rights of men are
five: the Right of Personal Security; the Right of Property;

the, Right of Contract; Family Rights; and the Rights of

Government, Art. 80. There are five Cardinal Virtues, namely,

Benevolence, Justice, Truth, Purity and Order. The old list.

' of four Cardinal Virtues, namely, Temperance, Fortitude, Justice,
   and Wisdom is "too unphilosophical a division to be employed
   with any advantage in Morality," Art. 128. We are told that,

`-` in a general manner, without pretending to any great precision,"

the fivefold divisions of Virtue depends on five elements of our

nature :_ Love, Mental Desires, Speech, Bodily Appetites, and
Reason, Art, 123. Finally, the Rights and the Virtues, are

sonnected; for there  is.   relation of approximate parallelism

                         a

between thefive glasses, Rights and the five Cardinal Virtues;of

252 GEOMETRY AND MORALITY.

see Art. 124-. These divisions naturally encountered adverse
criticism ; Dr Whewell defends them in a section of his Supple
ment, which commences thus: "We enumerate five Desires or

Needs, as the leading Springs of human action; and five Primary

kinds of Rights. But why, it is asked, do these Rights so exactly

correspond to the five Desires? Why, as it has been put in a

lively way, are they so exactly face to face with the Springs of
                                                                "
Action  ;--so  many  Policemen,  watching  so  many  Thieves
                                                              't

In his original Preface Dr Whewell made some remarks on

the analogy which he traced between his subject and Geometry.
He said, " Morality, and the Philosophy of Morality, differ in the

same manner and in the same degree as Geometry, and the
Philosophy of Geometry. Of these two subjects, Geometry con--

sists of a series of positive and definite Propositions, deduced one

from another, in succession, by rigorous reasoning, and all resting

upon certain Definitions and Self-evident Axioms. The Phi

losophy of Geometry is quite a different subject; it includes such

Inquiries as these :----Whence is the Cogency of Geometrical

proof 'Q What is the Evidence of the Axioms and Definitions ?

What are the Faculties by which we become aware of their truth?

and the like." He proceeds then to assign Geometry to the

Mathematicians, and the Philosophy of Geometry to the Meta

physicians. He wished the Elements of Morality to be considered

analogous to Geometry, and held that the construction of such
a system should " precede any attempt to settle the disputed`and

doubtful questions which are regarded as belonging to the Philo

sophy of Morality." Perhaps Dr Whewell did not keep very closely

to the design which he thus indicates ; he introduced matter that

seems to belong rather to the metaphysical than to the syste

matical part of the subject. The main principles of his scheme

were accepted by few of his contemporaries. Some of the most

eminent of his correspondents recorded their hesitation or            »
dissent in letters to the author. His friend and relative, the

late Mr Myers, sent him a long criticism on the work; he
praised much of it highly, but objected altogether to the analogy

with Geometry, and would not allow that Morality could claim

higher rank as a science than those which involve merely obser

couscmscs.  2 53

vation and classification. Dr Whewell's own letters in reply
appear to shew that he was not satisfied with the result of his

labours.

      Morality seems indeed to have but feeble claims to the cha
racter of an independent science; it is made up of fragments
of Theology, Law, and Political Economy; and thus resembles

some modern kingdoms which have risen to importance by

the spoliation of their neighbours. In particular, for one who

thoroughly accepts the Christian Revelation ethical systems as
such are superfluous; the moralist is superseded by the theo

logian.

    A few remarks may be offered on special points of Dr Whewell's

work. The most difiicult matter to be treated by those who
belong to what Dr Whewell calls the independent school of
moralists is probably the conscience. Much of what he delivers
on this head seems very "good. He puts very strongly in the
preface to the second edition the argument which is urged
against the morality of conscience as a system, and says that
it "has been of efficacy enough to prevent'the morality of Con

science from being generally adopted as a System." Similar
remarks are made by him in his Arts. 262...276, where he treats
of conscience; thus'he says in Art. 272: "Since'Cons'cience is
thus a subordinate and fallible'Rule, it appears, that for'a man

to act according to his conscience, is not necessarily to act
rightly." But then on the other hand he asserts in Art. 267,

that "He who acts against his Conscience is always wreng." So
again in Art. 275, " To disobey the' commands and prohibitions
of Conscience, under any circumstances, is utterly immoral; it is
the very essence of immorality." This seems to me extravagant.
The foulest crimes in History--the burning of Latimer and

Ridley--the massacre of St Bartholomew--the Gunpowder'Plot,
--may be palliated or even justified by the assertion that the
perpetrators followed the command of their consciences, which
it would have been the essence of immorality to disobey.

      The Chapter on Cases of Necessity is very interesting; but
we must remember that they are defined to be "those in which
a man is impelled to violate Common Duties and Common Rules

254  CASES or NECESSITY.

' by the pressure of extreme danger or fear." According to such

 a definition, a certain amount of opprobrium, or at least of sus

picion, attaches to the whole class, and we ought not to refer
any case to the claSs which may justly demand a more favour

able consideration. For example, in Art. 328, Dr Whewell speaks

of the Duty of Obedience to Government being sometimes put

aside under the pressure of Necessity. But such a case would

frequently be more properly treated as one of Conflict of Duties.

-On the one hand there may indeed be the ordinary obligation

of obedience to government; but on the other hand there may

be the patriotism which enjoins resistance to a wicked tyrant,

and the self-devotion which incurs personal risk for the sake of
the liberty and happiness of others. On Dr WheWell's principles

the noblest examples of political and religious martyrdom might

be included in the harsh definition of Cases of Necessity.

    The ChaPter Of Things Allowable contains some striking
remarks; especially we may notice part of Art. 340, "The more

entirely a man's whole being is governed and directed by Moral

Principles, the more does the circle'of Things Indifferent narrow

'and dwindle. As the moral light grows stronger, every thing

assumes a colour of good or bad, between which he has to cheese.

Everything, however trivial or mean, affords aliment and Occa

sions to virtue. And as all things thus become good or had.

nothing is merely allowable. If it be allowable it is right; and

is what must be done because it is right, not what may be done
because it is allowable."

The references to the relations of the Sexes and to Marriage

Iare frequent, and they indicate invariably the purity and ten
derness characteristic of the author.  do not know, however,

.whether the enthusiastic advocates of the rights of women will

admit that there is any permanent and universal truth in a few
sentences of Art. 228: " The Desires and Afi`ections of both Sexes

lead to the Conjugal Union: but according to the natural feelings

of most persons, and the practice of most communities, the man
proposes and urges the union, before it takes place; the woman

yields and consents. The man is impelled by a love which he

proclaims t0 the object of it; and he asks for a return in which

DIFFICULTIES IN SCRIPTURE.                                      255

he has the character of a. conqueror. The woman is led to consent,

not only by affection, but by the hope of a life filled with those

family afl'ections, and family enjoyments, for which, as her heart

whispers to her, she was made."

The subject of slavery is treated in a manner which became

a member of the University that had the honour of counting

Paley and Clarkson and Wilberforce among her sons.

    The third Book is entitled Religion. Of Divine Laws and

their Sanction. Here the author presents himself rather as the

commentator on Scripture than as the Professor of Moral Philo

sophy. A brief sketch is given of Natural Religion; this it is

said presents to us the Ideas of the Moral Government of God,
and his Providence. " But we cannot reasonably be satisfied with

a mere Idea of the course of this World. We must attend to the

Fact also, that to the History of the World: and thus we are
led to Revealed Religion," Art. 474. Next we have chapters on
is,
           is,Christian Revelation and Christian Morality; these are followed
                      ;"
                                 is 6) ;"by five chapters containing Christian Precepts, arranged under

                                              isthe five heads already adopted, namely Benevolence, Justice,
                                                             aTruth, Purity, and Order. After these we have the following

subjects: the Christian Rule of Conscience, Natural Piety,

Christian Piety, Religious Belief, Christian Edification, Oaths, -

and Oaths of Christians.

     One or two difficulties in Scripture are noticed, but too briefly
for complete satisfaction. Thus we read in Art. 504: " The

reasons which in these precepts are connected with the injunc-l
tion, must be accepted in several cases as imperfectly expressing

the Christian ground of the duty this illustrated by a quo

tation from the Sermon on the Mount. Again, in Art. 518, we find

"Perhaps to some readers, justice in matters of property may

seem to be made light of, in the parable of the unjust steward

whom the lord (that his lord) commended (Luke xvi. 8), and

of the unjust judge (Luke xviii.  of whom Christ said, Hear

what the unjust judge saith this followed by some explana

tory remarks. In Arts. 543...545 we have                        consideration of

the apparently conflicting duties of obedience to the powers

that be and of altering the government and even deposing the

256 _                NATIONAL CHURCH. .

Sovereign in' extreme cases. We are told, "In a constitutional

form of government, in which the whole or a large part of the

citizens possess more or less political power, the Constitution,

as much as the person or family of the Sovereign, may be

considered as the ordinance of man, to which all are commanded
to submit themselves. And every citizen, who thus possesses

by Law a share of political power, is one of the powers that be."

The analogy and the difference between the course of truth

and knowledge in Science and in Religion are very well treated:

see Art. 593.

     The fourth Book is entitled Jus. Of Rights and Obligations.
This gives an outline of the actual Laws of ancient Rome and

modern England. As it was revised for the first edition by

Professor Empson, and for the second by Mr Robert Leslie Ellis,

there is sufficient  guarantee  that the facts are accurately      ex
                                        i
hibited.
               `

The fifth Book is entitled Polity. The Duties of the State.
Some of Dr Whewell's friends were unable to follow him in so

strongly insisting on the moral character of the State; they

held that there was nothing in this apart from the moral cha
racter of the individuals comprising the State: Dr Whewell

himself objected to the phrase, the Conscience of the State, in his
Art. 808. The question of a National Church is discussed in
this Book, and Dr Whewell seems to have found it difiicult to

settle it in a satisfactory manner; we have seen that he made
Ii some changes with respect to it in his second edition:
                                                               shall

return to the question in noticing his next work. He is strongly

against the pretensions of the Pepes, as became a successor of

Barrow and of Bentley: see his Art. 1023.                              '

The sixth Book is entitled International Jus. Rights and

Obligations between States. The subject is one which had a

peculiar interest for the author, who had a strong desire to elevate

the standard by which the mutual duties of states should be regu

lated, and especially to diminish and mitigate the horrors of war.

     The Supplement was first published in 1854- in the third

edition of the work. It consists of four Chapters: Of Enume

rations and Classifications of the Springs of Human Action;

STYLE or THE WORK.                                ` 257

Objections considered; Of Paley's Moral Philosophy; Of Mitiga
tions of the Laws of War. In the preface to the third edition

there is a Note, not reproduced in the last edition, which refers

Ito the last Chapter of the Supplement. " In doing this have

availed myself of the speech made by Sir William Molesworth in

the House of Commons on July 4, 1854:."

    The style of Dr Whewell's Elements of Morality is frequently
impressive from its dignified seriousness, but it wants the anima

tion which distinguishes the History and the Philosophy of the

Inductive Sciences, and which was again conspicuous in the Essay

on the Plurality of Worlds. This is remarkable, as the work
was written in the most fortunate period of his career, and in the

maturity of his powers; while the Essay did not appear until the

long illness of his wife and the course of academical events had

thrown some gloomy shadows over him. Perhaps he did not

allow himself sufficient rest after the exhausting labour connected

with his two great scientific publications before he undertook the
new task of constructing a system of Morality. But it would
appear from a passage which will be quoted presently that he

deliberately adopted what he considered a suitable style for a.

systematic work.

    In 1846 Dr Whewell published a work entitled Lectures on .
Systematic Morality delivered in Lent Term, 1846. This is an

octavo volume of 205 pages, besides the Title, Preface and

Contents. The preface is unusually short, occupying less than
"Ia page. The first two sentences may be quoted:
                                                  have stated
Iat the outset of the following Lectures that though hope they

may have an independent interest for some readers, they contain

a kind of commentary on some parts of the two volumes on
I IThe Elements of Morality which lately published.
                                                     gladly

,take advantage of this opportunity of offering explanations on

some of the points treated of in the former volumes; for a further

attention to the subject has made me aware of very serious

defects which are to be found in the work." This admission of

very serious defects in the former work does not seem quite
consistent with the tone of the preface to the second edition of

that work in 1848; for there, while allowing that a few super,

w. 17

258 LECTURES ON SYSTEMATIC MORALITY.

fluities have been withdrawn, he offers in substance a resolute

defence of the whole system.                                          _

The lectures are eight in number, and on many accounts well

deserve study. They present a clear andplively account of the

author's views respecting a System of Morality, and thus possess

the interest which must attach to the exposition by a writer of

great ability of the conclusions he had obtained by long investi

gation of an important subject. The volume is also a good

example of what professorial lecturing may accomplish. Many

persons maintain that the day for this species of teaching is gone

by,--at least for all the sciences except those which are called

cxperimental,--and that the press is now the natural and appro

priate channel of communicating knowledge. Even in those Uni

versities where professorial instruction is more predominant than
it is in Cambridge, the success of the process is far from decisive.

The following testimony for example has recently been recorded

by an earnest student respecting some lectures. "As to Wilson's

Ipolitical economy, regret to say he had neglected to get up the

subject; and certainly upon the whole cut but a poor figure, often
coming before us quite unprepared." The case of Dr Whewell

in the present course might have seemed very unpromising at

first, for he had just published a large work on the subject,

which was thus apparently exhausted; and yet this volume shews

that he could deliver animated and eloquent addresses, well

calculated to charm his hearers and to impress their memories,

whether they had studied his published system or not.

    A few miscellaneous points may be noticed. The first four

pages give an account of the course of professorial lectures which
Dr Whewell had delivered from his appointment in 1838 up to
the current date. From this date until his resignation in 1855

I think he was mainly occupied with Plato in his lectures. On

page 4 he seems to imply that the dry style which characterises

his Elements of JiIorality was deliberately adopted; he says:

" ...the barenness [barenessi] and conciseness of language which

appeared to me to be required in a printed systematic work,

leave great room for explanation and illustration..." Speaking
"Iof the Elements he says, on page 5:
                                       have no doubt the book'

                THE conscrnncn.                          25 9`

Ihas many and grievous defects and blemishes... H This however

does not seem to go so far as the words which have quoted
from the preface; it is not so much a confession that faults

really exist as a suggestion that they may be expected in
any human work, with a sort of challenge to critical opponents
to find them. On page 19 we have a concise formula 'on an
important subject: "the true guide of man is Conscience, only

so long as the guide of Conscience is Reason." On page 67 we
have a lively passage containing the answer which a student of

systems may be supposed to give to some practical man who

depreciates them. "If any man comes to us, and says, "Why

do you sit here discussing about virtue? Get up. Go out into
the world, and be virtuous. We reply, That is our object: but

we are reasonable beings; we cannot help wishing and trying to

understand what we do, as well as to do something .... ..If you

do not choose to join with us in such deliberations, go you forth

and be virtuous; and may all good omens attend you! Go if

you will, and be virtuous, without knowing what it is to be

virtuous..." And yet the practical man thus bantered might

have had some reply--to the clergyman at least if not to the
professor,--by quoting St John vii. 17. The lecturer himself says in

a. later work "For morality
is                              as we have seen, eminently and
                is

                             is
                                                    is,

                                                        is
                                                          is

                                                                          of

                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                      is
peculiarly a practical science; and its truths must be acted first

and contemplated afterwards." (Lectures on Hist.  Moral Phil.

1862, Additional Lectures page 63.) On pages 14:2...1417 we have

some remarks on Butler as a Moralist; their tendency may be

summed up in the opinion that by Conscience Butler meant
Reason, or at least ought to have meant Reason. "This

Conscience,---the Law written on the Heart. The Law written

there, but to read the writing  a matter, often at least, requir--

ing a careful and continued study. And this being so, Conscience

no permanent body of Rules or ultimate Tribunal." On page

165 Puffendorf  introduced, and  held to be far inferior to

Grotius. On page 179 the author's favourite subject of intema
tional law handled in a very eloquent passage. On page 204!
the views of citizens and magistrates as to Church Establishment
are thrown into the form of an address beginning thus: "We

                                                  17--2

260.             CHURCH AND STATE.

desire," they say, " that this country should be divided into

parishes..." The printer however has omitted to inform us by the

aid of inverted commas where this address ends and the author

resumes his own course.

The last lecture is entitled The Relation of Church and State;

it occupies pages 180...205. Towards the beginning of the lecture '

I IDr Whewell mentions his Elements of llIomlity and says "I take

the liberty of referring particularly to what have published on
this head; because what have said in this part of the work,

more than in any other, appears to me to require some additional

explanation, to prevent its being misunderstood..." The intri

cate nature of the subject is well shewn by the difficulty which

Dr Whewell experienced in forming or communicating his opinions

respecting it. Instead of the published eighth Lecture Dr Whewell
seems to have delivered two, namely an eighth entitled, The

Establishment of the Church ideally and historically considered,

and a ninth entitled Establishments, and the Separation of Church

and State. The whole of the former was set up in proof, occu-v
pying pages 180...206; part of the latter was set up in proof, occu

pying pages 201.224; the manuscript of the remainder of the

ninth lecture, as delivered, has not been found among the papers:
The proof agrees with the published volume up to about the,
middle of page 191 ; the remainder of the published volume is
fresh matter except the passage on pages 197 and 198; "This
        is
                          a

                     I

                                 if it,
                                                                       if

                                                                                                          is,
as Chevalier Bunsen calls .... ..which could befall the nation:"

this passage formed part of the ninth Lecture.

    A few points in these proofs may be noted: The author

maintains the principle of an established Church, but says we

must not hold that every thing which occurs in the English
        necessary to the principle: "It must therefore be
system

considered as a mistake,  any writer should represent any

particular scheme of provisions of this kind, as an essential

part of the Establishment of a Church ;--that is, of the Church

being by the State conjoined with itself for the purposes of

Education. It must,       say, be reckoned an errour,  any of

these details of polity should he put forwards as a necessary

portion of such  conjunctiOn of Church and Statez--if, for

TOLERATION.  '  261

instance, any one should assert the admission'of Bishops to
the National Councils, and the exclusion of Dissenters from civil

offices, to be the necessary conditions of the establishment of
the Church." He thinks that \Varburton made this mistake,

and that some of the remarks in his own Elements might
appear to involve it. To illustrate the variety which may occur
consistently with the general principle of an Established Church
an account is given of the ideal system proposed by Bunsen
for Prussia in his Church of the Future. The Polity of the
United States of North America. with regard to Religion
is spoken of rather more favourably than in some other parts
of the author's writings: " That the present Polity of the
North American States with regard to Religion is suited to
their present condition; and that it would neither be right; nor
wise to attempt to introduce in that country an Established
Church in the form in which it exists in any of the nations
of Europe, is a. matter of which no thoughtful person can enter
tain any doubt....Again : when the adoption of religious doctrines
as a leading part of the political principles of the rulers of

States has led to the most glaring and oppressive intolerance,
far exceeding all that was ever dreamt of as a security for an
establishment, wise legislators may fitly seek a remedy for this
evil, in excluding religious doctrines altogether from the consi
deration of the civil governor...."

    A lecture on Toleration which occurs among Dr Whewell's

papers seems to have formed part of the series delivered or
intended to be delivered; it is however incomplete. Dr Whewell
adopts, as he says, Locke's arguments in favour of Toleration,
though taking a difl'erent View of the office of the State. The
following sentence occurs: "These doctrines of Toleration are

Inecessary consequences of our principles, and the more wilf
Ilingly state them now in a distinct form, inasmuch as have

omitted to do so in my book on Morality, and have only con
sidered Toleration in a collateral and transient manner. The

importance of the subject merits a different treatment in a

Treatise on Morality and Polity."

     In 1848 we have Butler's Three Sermons on Human Nature

262            BUTLEn's THREE SERMONS.

and Dissertation on Virtue, edited by Dr Whewell, with a

Preface and a Syllabus of the Work. This is in small octavo,
the preface occupying about 30 pages; the publication went

_ through various editions, the. last being the fourth, in 1865.
   The preface is interesting; it contrasts Butler and Paley as

Moralists. Dr Whewell allows that Butler's language about the

natural supremacy of conscience is liable to be misunderstood,

but considers that Butler himself was free from error: his esti

mate of Butler in this respect      more favourable than that of
            is

                                                             is_

                                                             of
Mackintosh which has been formerly noticed.

An example may be given of a difficulty which sometimes

occurs  in  Dr Whewell's  writings  and. to  which                attention  has

                                                                                         I

been drawn in the account of his History                          the Inductive

Sciences. He speaking of the' phrase Moral Sense suggested

by Butler, and makes the following statementsi "It may be

'doubted whether such a crude and physical notion of a Moral

Sense was ever entertained by any thoughtful moralist..." "It

plain, at least, as have already said, that Butler never
isI          I
                   I
dreamt of asserting a Moral Sense in any such use of the term

as this." "As  have said, Butler does not assert `a Moral

Sense to exist in any technical or distinct form..." Here the

as have already said of the second passage must allude to

-the first passage, because no other has preceded which can be
                                             it

meant; but     plain that the words are not very strictly ap
            it

                is

                      I
plicable. So again the As have said in the third passage

must refer to the first or second passage; but the words are

not very strictly applicable: something similar has indeed been

given, but not the precise statement.

     After some criticisms on Paley the following high praise

awarded: "If the work had been entitled Morality as derived
                           if

                                                                                           is
from General Utility, and  the Principle had been taken for

granted, instead of being supported by the proofs which Paley

offers, the work might have been received with unmingled

gratitude; and the excellent sense and temper which for the

.most part shews in the application of rules, might have pro_
            it
                                                            is

                                                        I
duced their beneficial effect without any drawback."              do not

know exactly how much of Paley's work        to be omitted before

                    OPINION OF R. L. ELLIS.                     263

we can thus receive it with unmingled gratitude, but even
if we make a liberal estimate of the quantity, it seems that the

language is scarcely consistent with the strong condemnation of

Paley pronounced in the Sermons on the Foundation of lllorals.
The praise is reproduced in the Lectures on the History of Moral

Philosophy, 2nd edition, page 168.

    In the Dissertation on Virtue a passage is thus given by
Dr Whewell: "...whether considered as`a perception of the

understanding, or as a sentiment of the heart... ;" and the

following note is added. "The editions have `a sentiment of

Ithe understanding or a perception of the heart;' but think it
Icannot be doubtful that Butler intended to write it as have

printed it. W." A writer in the Dublin University Magazine

for May, 1857, draws attention to the passage, and prefers the

old reading.

    At the end of the preface in the later editions Dr Whewell
adverts to the University Regulation made in 1855, by which

an acquaintance with Paley's work was no longer required

from the students.

The late Robert Leslie Ellis addressed a letter to Dr Whewell

on Jan. 22, 1848, in which he gave his opinion with respect to

the use of Butler's Three Sermons for examination purposes;

this well deServes to be preserved.

   "I make no apology for communicating to you the impres

Ision which was led to form at the college examination in

December with respect to the two subjects of examination in

moral philosophy.
     The examination in your work was on the whole very satis

factory: that in the three sermons on human nature was certainly

much less so.

In the first place, the shortness of the subject         gives  great

facility in getting it up, as the phrase  is,  by rote.

Secondly, the sermons are essentially a controversial argu

mentation against those who in Butler's day denied the reality
of moral distinctions. Their scope and purpose are therefore

but imperfectly apprehended by those who are not acquainted

with the history of the subject. In the first stage of his pro-

2644                  BUTLER'S SIX sermons.

gress the student can only be perplexed by a refutation of

errors which he had perhaps never heard of.

Thirdly, the sermons, perhaps from their controversial cha

racter, contain statements which may fairly be called unguarded,

Iand which cannot doubt have misled many of those whom
I examined. The language they made use of, when they spoke

of vice and sin as if actually they were rare and exceptional

phenomena, or when they asserted that there is a natural tend

Iency in man to act rightly, could not, think, be recognised

as orthodox by any body of Christians, the unitarians being of
Icourse set aside.
                      do not say that Butler's teaching is hete

rodox, but that from the end he had in view in the sermons

in question, it easily suggests to unwary readers errors opposite

to those which he refutes.

Fourthly, the dramatic and metaphorical character of Butler's

illustrations is also a serious objection. Conscience comes for

ward, steps in, sits in judgment and the like, and by this kind of

anthropomorphic psychology the minds of many students are not

a little bewildered.

Lastly, they learn from Butler to look on conscience as a

faculty which decides, without the necessity of any analysis, on

the right and wrong of any proposed course of action: a view

which would make moral philosophy, or rather morality, an otiose
        '
study.          thus lose sight of that which yen  so  distinctly  point
          They

out, that our moral judgments are to be derived from our primary

moral conceptions."

    In 1849 we have Butler's Sim Sermons on Moral Subjects.

A Sequel to the Three Sermons on Human Nature, edited by

Dr Whewell, with 3. Preface and a Syllabus of the Work. This

is in small octavo, the preface occupying about 10 pages; the

publication reached a third edition. The preface is very brief

and seems to be less successful than the author's usual efforts

of this nature. For an example take the following ascribed to

Butler as part of "the distinction between our self-love and our
other afi'ectionsz" " ...that self-love produces interested actions,

the aflections, if unrestrained, produce passionate actions...."

Butler, however, really says, "passionate, ambitious, friendly,

         snrumasou'sv LECTURES.            265

revengeful, or any other, from the particular appetite or afi'ection
from which it proceeds." Thus, in Butler, passionate actions form

but "one division, whereas in the preface they form the whole

class. Again, Butler says that Hatred and Revenge are disin

terested; the Preface replies to this in a long sentence, which

amounts to saying that if we suppose and imagine we have a

pleasure and interest in the gratification of hatred and revenge,

Ithen these feelings are interested.
        cannot agree with the high estimate given by Dr Whewell

and others of Butler's Sermons; they seem to me to shine with

a pale light entirely borrowed from the splendour of the Analogy, -

Inor would they; think, have received so much attention if they

had proceeded from an author not otherwise famous. The answers

to Hobbes have long since 10st what interest they may once have
had; it is difficult to suppose that Hobbes himself could have

seriously believed in his own audacious paradoxes, and it is not
likely that any person would now revive them.

   I have next to notice a publication with the following title:

De Obligatione Conscientioe Prwlectiones Decem Owonii in schola
VIItheologica habitce Anno Domini M.DO.XL
                                           a Roberto San

dersono S. Theologiaz ibidem Professore Regio postea Episcopo
Lincolniensi. With English Notes, including an abridged trans

lation, by William Whewell, D.D., Master of Trinity College, and
Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of Cambridge.
Edited for the Syndics of the University Press, Cambridge, 1851.
This is an octavo volume containing xix and 331 pages. The

editor's preface occupies three pages: it acknowledges the aid

of Mr Holden, who verified and completed the references and

compiled the indexes. The English notes not unfrequently

refer to points as to which the Editor differs from the
         -`
Author.

      Towards the end of the preface the Editor, after praising the

Author generally, adds: "In saying this, we of course except the

cases in which Sanderson maintains that doctrine, of the divine

.right of kings, which was then common in England, and which
is now obsolete; but which does not vitiate other parts of his

reasoning." This statement, however, seems likely to shake the

266               SANDERSON'S LECTURES.

confidence of a reader; he may suspect that if an important part

of the author's teaching is to be dismissed as obsolete, then
much of the remainder is likely to be precarious, and that the
whole work is rather a collection of opinions than an effort of

reasoning. We find that in the course of the seventh Lecture the
Editor has often to protest against the Author; thus on page 212,

after Sanderson has made some extravagant remarks in support of
the royal authority, the Editor says, " This was not a just repre

sentation of the English constitution, even under the Stuarts."

So also on page 281. There is a very good note at the end of
the eighth Lecture; this Lecture treats the question, How far
Human Laws are binding upon the conscience: the Editor

plainly admits that there is little value in what the Author says.

The whole of the tenth Lecture and part of the ninth are given to

a subject which seems of very subordinate importance in a system

of morality, namely, the meaning of the aphorism Salus popul'i
Ifsupremo, Lear.
                  such an aphorism had any authority, derived

from the Bible, or from the law of the land, it would be of

course of great moment to ascertain its exact significance: but

to discuss the meaning of the words in a phrase of Cicero's drawn

from the old Roman law, to which no person in modern times was

bound to pay regard, was altogether a waste of time.

     Sanderson finds frequent opportunity for striking blows at the
Pope and the Papists: see pages 86, 99, 111, 125, 181, 234. He

holds that the laws of a ruler de facto are to be obeyed: see
page 149 with the Editor's note. Sanderson's language seems
occasionally hard to understand exactly, though the general drift

is clear. An example may be given from page 22 which is obscure

from the metaphorical allusions. "Lapsu enim amissa est Con
ecientioe rectitudo et integritas;. non Natura. Et cum renascimur,

non infunditur de novo, quae defuit ante, Conscientia, sed quae prius

inerat, foeda peccatis atque impura, respersa jam sanguine Christi,

fide purzficatur, ita ut placeat Deo. Etiam in infantibus admodum
parvulis, ut in lactentibus magnificetur Dei nomen, emicat cum

primis e veteris incendii ruderibus, et quamvis admddum debiliter,
spargit tamen utcumque igniculos suos rationis haec scintillula;..."

Here the word infunditur suggests the pouring in of a fluid, but

                      SANDERSON'S LECTURES.                 267

the respersa does not fit so well with a fluid as with a solid body.

Then the clause emicat...scintillula is perplexing: Dr Whewell

makes a spark emerge from the ruins of that ancient confiagra

tion, which is an awkward metaphor. Sanderson appears to
speak of the fall as an ancient confiagration, and of conscience as a

little spark sending forth little flames: that a very evil thing
is
     is
                         is

                        it is
                               is

                                                              a
                                                                    is,

                                                                                                                  a
and a very good thing are both treated as fires, the difference

being in size alone.

As an example of obscurity arising from brevity we may refer

to page 282. Sanderson     discussing whether a People may

change their government from an elective monarchy to an here

ditary monarchy; he decides that they may, but only when the

throne vacant, for otherwise injury would be done to the reigning

king. It hard to conceive how a person who has been elected

king can be injured by a law that in future the crown shall be

hereditary. The editor seems to find difficulty; but the precise

force of his addition not apparent, namely "He overlooks the

case in which monarchy made hereditary in the reigning king's

family."
     Sanderson's Lectures though delivered in 1647 were not pub

lished until 1660. But appears that manuscript copies were in
circulation; two were brought to a London bookseller with
request that he would procure the publication of them: the book
seller very properly declined to do any thing without the author's
sanction, and wrote to him. Sanderson's remarks in the Preface,
though complimentary to the particular person, seem to indicate
an unfavourable opinion of the booksellers of the time. "Laudavi,

imo amavi, in homine, ct ante id tempus mihi penitus ignoto,

animi candorem; et ex eo genere, quibus fere unius lucri studium

est, wqui reverentiam."

     On the whole the edition of Sanderson seems work scarcely
deserving of the time and attention of Dr Whewell; had been
                                             a

                                                        it

advisable to disturb a slumber of two centuries the task might

have been left for some junior member of the University at which
the lectures were originally delivered. In the Lectures on the

History Moral Philosophy in England, Dr Whewell has com
of

                        a
pressed into less than page all that he has found  it  necessary

268 HISTORY OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY.

to say about the three works of Sanderson connected with Moral

Philosophy.

    Lectures on the History of illoral Philosophy in England. This

was published in 1852, in one octavo volume, containing xxxii

Iand 265 pages. The preface is short, and extract two sentences

from it: "The following Lectures have, for the most part, been

repeatedly delivered, in substance at least, in the Courses which

I have read as Professor of Moral Philosophy." "Being written

for oral delivery, they will be found to contain repetitions, and

Icertain irregularities of style which if had composed them for

the-general reader, it would have been my business to avoid."

The second edition appeared in 1862, in small octavo, ranging

with the last edition of the History of the Inductive Sciences.

Besides the lectures of the first edition there are others called

Additional Lectures on the History of Moral Philosophy; these

are very inconveniently paged separately: the whole volume now

contains xvi, 280, and 130 pages. Unfortunately there is no
IIndex to the volume.
                       shall refer to the second edition in citing

the volume. The original preface is not formally reproduced,
but it is substantially embodied in that to the second edition;

this however is chiefly occupied with a reply to some remarks on
Dr Whewell's opinions made by Mr Mark Pattison in the well

known Essays and Reviews.

    In the first part of the volume we have an Introductory
Lecture, then Lectures I to XlI which treat of all the principal

English Moralists down to the epoch of Paley inclusive; and

finally Lectures XIII to XVIII which are devoted to Bentham. The

preface begins thus: "The first Twelve Lectures of the following

Collection were delivered, nearly as they are here printed, by me

in the first year of my tenure of the office of Professor of Moral

IPhilosophy, to which had been appointed in 1838." This sen

tence refers to the Lectures I to XII; but the Introductory Lecture,

which bears the second title of The Point of View, must belong to
a later period, when the Professor had constructed his own system

of Morality, of which this Lecture is an epitome. The lectures

are very interesting, for the author always excels as an expositor;

but they seem much inferior in execution to the historical and

                           BENTHAM.                     26 9'

critical parts of the History and the Philosophy of the Inductive
Sciences. They might with advantage have been reconstructed,

and presented in some more connected order, so as to form a

complete critical and biographical narrative of English Moral

Philosophy. In fact, they illustrate an evil of which there are

other examples in academical literature; a professor fresh to his

subject writes a course of lectures amidst the pressure of his first

year of office, and then continues to repeat them annually and

finally to publish them, without giving to his students or to the

public an adequate share in his more mature knowledge.
     The Chapters on Bentham are remarkable. Far more space is

 given to him than to any other writer, and the criticism is here

,especially animated and severe. It is instructive to compare this

with what Mackintosh in his Dissertation says under the same

head. Mackintosh, as usual with him, is tolerant even to the

verge of indecision, and seems to shrink from open condemna
tions. He offers general observations on the utilitarian system,

which are not specially applicable to the writer whom he proposes

to discuss; and such censure as he pronounces is directed against                                                    .

Mr James Mill a disciple of Bentham's, rather than against the

Master himself. The two critics seem to have exchanged their

professions. DrWhewell exhibits the tenacious grasp, the impetuous

spirit, and the incisive sarcasm of a lawyer; while in Mackintosh

we have the serene temper, the tranquil hope, and the persuasive

eloquence of a clergyman.
IAs remarked with respect to the History and the Philosophy
Iof the Inductive Sciences so
                               may repeat with respect to the

present volume, that the second edition ought to have exhibited
Isigns of a more stringent revision.
                                        will mention a few ex

amples: page 53, the second Greek word in the title of one of

Hobbes's works is wrong; page 150 line  for the author
it                                                                                                              the

    is

         it I

                             is

                                     of
                                                              it 4!,

                                                                                         is
                                                                                                             7

                                                                                        of
thoughts read the'author the Notes; page 165 line from the

foot, the word resemblance yields no sense, should be restriction.

The phrase as have said or something similar frequent, and

not always easy to determine the reference.

The second part of the volume purports to consist of fourteen

lectures; but  obvious that these are not in all cases complete

270-  '

                    GROTIUS.

lectures, as their average length is only nine pages. Thus in

many cases we may conclude that what is printed is only a portion

of what was delivered ; and in consequence the treatment of some

of the subjects seems too brief. For instance Lecture XI, of about
three pages is devoted to Peter Lombard, and Lecture XII, of
about six pages to Thomas Aquinas. In each case some illustrative

extracts might have been given with advantage, especially as the

following high praise is awarded to the Schoolmen. "If we were

to invest with modern forms many of their dissertations, it would

be found impossible to give either a better analysis of the

question, or more solid arguments, or a more judicious decision."
The last lecture is on the distinction Mr Coleridge wished to

introduce between the Reason and the Understanding, which
Dr Whewell here and elsewhere altogether rejects; see his

Philosophy of Discovery page 445 and Platonic Dialogues Vol. III
page 296. He says here " ...if we were to adopt Mr Coleridge's

account of the distinction of the substantives, we should have to

assert that by the Understanding we reason, and by the Reason

Iwe understand. But, as have ventured to say elsewhere, this is

neither good English nor good philosophy."

    In 1853 Dr Whewell's edition of the great work of Grotius
appeared under the title, Hugonis Grotii de Jure Belli et Pacis
Libri Tres accompanied by an abridged translation by William
Whewell, D.D. Master of Trinity College and Professor of Moral
Philosophy in the University of Cambridge: with the Notes of
the Author, Barbeyrac, and others. Edited for the Syndics of

the University Press. The work consists of three octavo volumes,
containing on the whole about 1400 pages. Dr Whewell's
preface occupies fourteen pages; it acknowledges the- aid of
Mr Holden who verified the references. There are a few notes

by Dr Whewell himself, but they are not extensive; and he

occasionally gives references to his Elements of Morality for
his OWn opinion on the matters discussed by Grotius. He rarely
records his dissent from the positions of his author; there is
however an example of such a kind with respect to the election

of the Roman emperors, where he finds that Grotius has set up five

fictions; see Vol. II pages 13 and 14. It would be superfluous to

                        enorws.                        27 1

make any remarks on the famous work of Grotius; the editor

received the thanks of many distinguished men for his labours,

which seemed well timed with respect to the condition of Europe.

   IA few words may be quoted from a letter by Mr Hallam. "

have again to thank you for a literary present--your leisure is

nobly employed, and your chair of Moral Philosophy no sine

Icure in your vigorous hands. But have additional reason to

thank you for the very handsome manner in which you have

mentioned my own little attempts to place the fame of Grotius,
in his great work, in the light which it appeared to deserve.

IYou have taken infinite pains to do much more than could do;

and the English reader will have the advantage, in your edition, of

reading a well printed text or of economizing his time by an

abridged translation."                              .

The following is from one eminent both as a statesman and a

scholar. "Pray accept my best thanks for the excellent edition

Iof Grotius which you have had the kindness to send me.

have read the preface, and examined the plan of the work, and

feel satisfied that you have rendered a most useful service to

all students of -International law and politics by your labours.

Grotius was unfairly run down by the writers of the eighteenth

century--he was considered heavy and pedantic--but a fairer

estimate of his immortal work now prevails, and your edition will

contribute to restore it to its proper estimation.

Your remarks on the project of Perpetual Peace are very

just--the extravagances of a few fanatics ought not to be allowed

to cover this lofty ideal with ridicule.

   I have observed in reading Livy lately that there are several

passages in which jus gentium is applied by him to rules of inter
national law--and if the passages were taken singly, the phrase

might seem to be used in these phrases in its modern sense. In

fact, however, it is used in these places in its ancient sense

of law generally received among nations; but it is used to com

prehend the prevailing rules of international law as well as those
of civil law. For instance, a Roman might have said that the

slaughter of ambassadors was contra jus gentium--but then he

would also have said that it was contra jus gentium for a man

272  PROSPECTIVE REVIEW.

to have several wives, or for a master not to have power of life

and death over his slave.

    In Vol. I p. 40 of your edition, the proverbial Greek line
expressive of the jus talionis is incorrectly cited by Grotius. Its

correct form may be seen in Aristot. Eth. Nic. V. 8.
     Barbeyrac is an excellent commentator. His notes to Pufi`endorf

are full of information, as well as his notes to Grotius.

    Wheaton's treatise is a meagre performance. It is remarkable

that no English writer has produced any work of authority on.

International law. We have nothing but Lord Stowell's judg

ments.

   I wish some University man, who understands law and modern

history would undertake a treatise on the subject. In the present.

state of the science, an extensive knowledge of positive law would.

be indispensable."

     Dr Whewell's works on Moral Science encountered various

hostile reviews; to these he sometimes replied without naming
the publication in which they appeared. He excused himself
for this omission of reference on the ground that " in all subjects,

the more impersonal our controversies can be made, the better
they will answer all good ends; and certainly controversies on
Morality are most likely in this way to be really moral :" see the

Preface to the Lectures on Systematic Morality, and the Preface to

the third edition of the Elements of Morality. But whatever may
be the advantages of this course, there are obvious reasons why
critical students should be able to turn to the original statements

Iof objections; and, therefore, shall now advert to the principal

of these.

   I first notice three articles in the Prospective Review, all

obviously by the same author, and written with great vigour
,and ability: there is a long unpublished reply to them among

Dr Whewell's manuscripts.

     We have a review of the Elements of Morality on pages

 577...610 of the Prospective Review for 1845. Among many

complaints one is especially prominent, namely, that the book

deduces morality from positive law: "All virtue is made to grow
out of judges' decrees, and the Will of Heaven is reached through

PROSPECTIVE REVIEW.  273

the Institutes. And so insecure seem the steps of this strange
ascent from the Basilica and Westminster Hall to the throne of

God, that we are astonished at the intrepidity that trusts to
them." The analogy between Morality and Geometry, which

Dr Whewell had suggested, is pronounced to be unfortunate
and fallacious. His leaning t0 the highest doctrines of authority,

both in Church and State, is briefly but emphatically condemned.
"` Not Wolsey himself could find more magnificent pleas for
state prerogatives; and scarcely Innocent, had he lived now,
make grander claims for an exclusive church." The only words
of commendation are contained in an allusion to "some better

things, equally earnest and hearty, especially the indignant seve
rity with which Slavery is everywhere treated."

    A review of the Lectures on Systematic Morality is given

on pages 400...427 of the Prospective Review for 1846. The
Lectures are considered, and justly, as mainly a defence of the
Elements of lllorality from certain Objections advanced against
the book. " The first half .of the defence is directed against some
critic imbued with Mr Carlyle's mode of thought, and sympathis
ing with his aversion to all systematic definitions of human duty.
The remainder is a manifest reply to our review; unless indeed
the very same series of strictures has been repeated in some other
quarters unknown to us." The reviewer does not allow the
propriety of Dr Whewell's course in omitting an exact reference
to the criticisms he answered, but does not impute to him " the
slightest degree of conscious injustice." The reviewer anticipates

Ime in a remark which had made before reading the article

that Dr Whewell treats Cases of Conscience "as arising from the
Obscurity of a single precept, instead of from the collision of two."
The reviewer in order to test the doctrine--which he ascribes to
Dr \Vhewell--that Morality is dependent upon Law--suggests
two examples, in which he implies that Morality and Law would

pronounce different verdicts in the same transaction. "A female

captive from Dacia is given to a lady of fashion about Trajan's
Court, as her ornatriac, or lady's maid. The lady is passionate, and
particular about her head-dress: and day by day the poor maid i
is submitted to the thong for the imperfection of a braid, or hung

         W. 18

 274 WESTMINSTER REVIEW.

 up by the hair to be lashed for the scratching of a comb. The
 humanity of a Christian neighbour is excited by her cries: and
 he secures her escape and restores her to her country." " Again,

if a captive girl is sent into the harem of an oriental tyrant, and

 a noble-minded youth, knowing something of her history, and
 regarding her with pity and affection, rescues her and marries
 her, is the Moralist to accept the legal determination that she
 is another's wife, and to pronounce the young man guilty of

 adultery ?"

      We have a review of the Lectures on the History of Moral

 Philosophy on pages 545...565 of the Prospective Review for 1852.
 This is not so severe in its condemnation as the other two articles;

 but still it is very unfavourable. In particular, the account given
 of Dr Samuel Clarke is held to be extremely inaccurate; and in
 fact Dr Whewell corrected this in his second edition. In this

 article a question is asked, to which a reply is given in the Sup

 plement to the third edition of the Elements of Morality, namely,
 "Why are they [the Rights] five? why so exactly face to face,

 one by one, with the Springs of action--so many policemen

 watching so many thieves l"
      An article in the Westminster Review of October, 1852, by

J. S. Mill, reviews the Lectures on the History of Moral Philosophy,

 and also the Elements of Morality. This is partly a defence of
 Bentham against Dr Whewell's objections, and partly a criticism of
 Dr Whewell's own system: to the latter part of the article a

 reply is given in the Supplement to the third edition of the

 Elements of Morality.
      An article which uses as a text the Lectures on. the History

 of Moral Philosophy appeared in the Dublin University Magazine
 of May, 1857: the writer, however, is mainly occupied with giving

 his own account of Grotius, Sanderson, and Hobbes. The chief
 fault found with Dr Whewell's Morality is that it is too systematic.
 " Surely Dr Whewell's pentagonal morality-- (his five elements
'of our nature, five classes of rights, five virtues, five branches of

 the general trunk of morality, and we know not what other fives),

postulates its own failure. It is a sort of Philistine superstition,

 reproducing the five golden emerods, the five golden mice, the

                      MORALITY AND LAW.                      275

five lords, the five cities." A passage which occurs towards the

end of the fourth Lecture is censured as too rhetorical; but

the reviewer himself was certainly not justified in rebuking

any other person for the obtrusive display of literary ornament.
Dr Whewell in his second edition added a note to the passage

which he said had been criticised as rhetorical and unmeaning,

but he gives no reference to the place where the criticism is to be

found.

An article in the British Quarterly Review for 1863 discusses

several of Dr Whewell's Moral Works and pronounces an adverse

judgment on them all.

     In the North American Review for July, 1846, there is an

article on the Elements of Morality. Some faults are pointed out,
but on the whole a very favourable opinion is expressed. " But

we have read the work through with growing gratitude to the

author for the distinctness of his definitions, for the transparency

of his statements, for his accuracy in the use of terms, and for

the minuteness and thoroughness of his analysis of moral ideas

and conceptions."

Shorter notices of the works on Moral Science are given in
                      IFrom one of them extract a sentence
various periodicals.

relating to the Lectures on the History of Moral Philosophy.
              since it would be in most
  "Moreover,                             people  a shameful  waste

`

of time to read the works of all the men whose names we chro

nicled just now, it will be found convenient to have an abstract

of their chief opinions, arranged (as it is arranged here) by a
master hand."

The critics of Dr Whewell's works are almost unanimous in

condemning the derivation of Morality from positive Law which

his system seemed to involve; and in spite of his justification
of his course it is difficult to acquiesce in its propriety. Thus, to

take an example, he replaces the old four Cardinal Virtues by
five, namely, Benevolence, Justice, Truth, Purity, and Order;

and With respect to Purity he often makes substantially the fol
lowing remark :` "Morality says, You shall not desire her who is

another's wife: Law determines whether she be his wife." It is

scarcely possible to imagine a frailer foundation on which to rest

                                                 18--2

276 COURSES or LECTURES.

one of the most important of the five pillars of his Moral Edifice.

A duty which is to be incumbent on both sexes, and on every

condition of life, is connected with the formalities which the law
enjoins as to the marriage ceremony--formalities which have for
their main purpose the regulation of the succession to property,
and which are independent of such important distinctions as

monogamy and polygamy, permanence and divorce. In fact,

history shews that the laws of marriage lend only a precarious
support to the demands of morality. The powers of dispensation
and dissolution exercised so freely during the middle ages, pro
moted the rapacity of priests and the licentiousness of kings
rather than purity of heart and conduct. The facility of divorce}
among the ancient Romans must almost have destroyed the
obligation of ties which could be so easily cancelled. The fol
lowers of Mahomet found in his laws rather a charter of indul

gence than a warning and restraint. Nay even the Mosaic
institutions were condemned by the Divine Master as a lapse
from primeval innocence--a concession to a hard-hearted race.

      There are numerous manuscripts relating to Moral Philosophy
among Dr Whewell's papers, and preparatory to a brief notice of
them it will be convenient to mention the courses of Lectures

which he delivered as Professor.

     In 1839, 1840, and 18l1 he traced the history of Moral

 Philosophy in England, and his Lectures were embodied in the

volume published in 1852. In 1842 and 1844 he lectured on
 the Difficulties of Constructing a System of Morality; in 1843,
 being Vice-Chancellor of the University he did not lecture. In
 1845 his lectures consisted of portions of his Elements of llIorality,
 then about to be published. In 1846 he delivered a course of

 lectures on Systematic Morality, which was published. The
 engagements of subsequent years are not distinctly recorded;
 they consisted partly of historical criticism, which was published
 in the second edition of the Lectures on the History of llIoral
 Philosophy, and partly of lectures on Plato, which were embodied

 in the Platonic Dialogues for English Readers.

      The manuscripts include many of the lectures in whole or in
 part ;- the most complete are those of the courses of 18412 and

UNPUBLISHED PAPERS.                                       277

1844. They'contain little which is not substantially involved in

the Elements of Morality, though the matter is generally presented
me more lively and rhetorical form in the lectures than in the

printed book. The manuscripts also include the first drafts of

large portions of the Elements of Morality; and these difl'er con

siderably from the forms finally assumed.

There are also various papers which may be properly described

as unpublished, of which the following are the principal :1

    (1) A reply to the criticisms in the Prospective Review; This

consists of 139 quarto pages. Among other things the two illus

trative examples suggested in the volume of the Review for 1846

are here discussed; namely, that of the Dacian captive, and that

of the girl removed from the harem of an oriental tyrant. (2) A

manuscript of 54 pages entitled Uasesiof Conscience. The case

of fugitive slaves already suggested by the examples of the

preceding manuscript is here thrown into the form of a fictitious

narrative: the matter has lost much of its practical interest since

the abolition of slavery in the United States.  An account of

the work of Mr Austin on Jurisprudence. (4) A criticism of

Coleridge's doctrine of the Reason and the Understanding, much

longer than that which was published in the second edition of the

Lectures on the History of Moral Philosophy. A_ small volume

might perhaps be hereafter published, consisting of these papers,

together with a selection of passages from the Lectures.

With Dr \Vhewell's works relating to Moral Philosophy we

may properly connect his Platonic Dialogues, for this work

doubtless derived its origin from various courses of lectures

which he delivered as Professor of Moral Philosophy. The Pla

tonic Dialogues for English Readers appeared in three volumes

in small octavo; the first volume was published in 1859, and

reached a second edition in 1860,. the second volume was pub

lished in 1860, and the third volume in 1861: the three volumes

together contain about 1200 pages. The work may be described

as a condensed translation of a large portion. of the Platonic

Dialogues, but it must be observed that in this condensation

the form of a dialogue is often abandoned. Dr Whewell himself

justifies this on the ground of the gain of clearness even with

278 PLATONIC DIALOGUES.

the loss of vivacity: see for example his Vol. III, page 174.
"IHe says in the Preface to the first volume:
                                                   have given

both the matter and the manner with all fidelity, except in

Iso far as have abridged several parts, in order to avoid prolix
Iand Obscure passages. And can venture to say that my task

(including translations of most of the other Platonic Dialogues

as well as of those given in this volume) has not been lightly

executed. It has been a labour of many years; each part has

been gone over again and again;..." The labour of many
years refers most probably to the lectures which Dr Whewell

had delivered on Plato, not only at Cambridge, but elsewhere,

as at Leeds, and at the College for Ladies in London.

    Dr Whewell himself had drawn the attention of English

scholars, and especially of Cambridge scholars, to the advan

tage which would follow from good translations of the ancient

classics, particularly of the philosophical works; see his Liberal

Education, Arts. 93 and 326. His Platonic Dialogues, however,

are of a less elaborate kind than he probably contemplated, in the

passages just cited, being adapted for the general reader rather

than for a laborious student. The design and execution of the

work received the approbation of some very eminent scholars,

and were in general favourably noticed by the reviewers: an

exception must be made, however, in the case of a sharp criti

cism in the Saturday Review on the second volume.

The first volume contains Dialogues of they Socratic School,

and Dialogues referring to the Trial and Death of Socrates;

in all thirteen dialogues. Dr Whewell does not lavish the

undiscriminating eulogy on his author which we find in some

commentators on Plato; he does not hesitate occasionally to

record his opinion that, instead of profound philosophy, we
have only school-boy puzzles. He defends the genuineness of

several of the dialogues against the attacks of Schleiermacher and

Ast; and especially dissents from the dogmatic utterances of

the former critic. The section of the first volume which relates

to the trial and the death of Socrates, is very impressive; the

Apology especially is rendered in a most attractive manner.

At the end of the first volume are some interesting remarks

                   THE sorms'rs.  279

on the subject of the Phaedo, namely, the Immortality of the

Soul.           -

     The second volume of the Platonic Dialogues is devoted to
the Antisophist Dialogues; there are nine in all, the most

important being the Protagoras and the Gorgias. Perhaps the

volume is less pleasing than the first; and indeed the closing

scenes of the life of Socrates have a fascination for the ordi

nary reader beyond that of any other thing which Plato wrote. It

may be too that in dialogues where the metaphysical element
is more prevalent, it is less easy to present the argument to

modern readers, than in those which are almost entirely ethical.

Moreover Dr Whewell would naturally choose for his first

volume those parts of Plato which he felt most suited to his

mode of treatment.

    A few miscellaneous points in this volume may be noticed:
In the preface Dr Whewell praises and adopts the opinions

expressed by Mr Grote as to the so-called Sophists. Dr Whewell

regards the Phaedrus and the Menexenus as intended among

other things to shew that Plato "could, if he chose, produce

compositions of the same kind of excellence which was admired

in the productions of the rhetoricians, whom we may regard

as his rivals." A curious remark is made on page 206. In a

passage of the Gorgias a sarcastic description of Plato and his
school is put into the mouth of Callicles; and Dr Whewell

says: "Plato so far acknowledges the sting of this sarcasm

that he makes Socrates, at a later period of the Dialogue,

after he has silenced Callicles, say that he would have liked

to answer the attack." But this seems to neglect the fact

that Plato himself sets his characters in action and speech; we

'might as plausibly maintain on the contrary, that Plato, by

                is

                                        if
                                              it

                                                                                        it,
reproducing the sarcasm shews that he cared nothing about

and contents himself with saying at a later period that he

should have liked to answer it. Here in fact Dr Whewell

seems to 100k on the Dialogue as  were a report instead

of an imaginary scene; and he leans in the same direction

elsewhere when he remarks on the dates of the Dialogues. But

on page 306 he     obliged to take the contrary direction in

280 THE REPUBLIC.

reference to an "anachronism which makes Socrates speak of

events which happened long after his death." It is obvious

that remarks and criticisms will bear a very different aspect

according as the Dialogues are regarded as reported occurrences

or as imaginary conversations; and yet this simple considera
tion seems sometimes forgotten. Thus Dr Whewell observes on
page 174 that "Plato knew too well Gorgias's talents and skill,
and also his reputation, to think it prudent to represent him

as a contemptible adversary or an easy conquest." This is

surely a natural and convenient remark; the Dialogue is re

garded as a work of fiction, and it is suggested that even a
fiction will be displeasing if it represents a man of known

ability and learning as foolish and ignorant. But a hostile

critic on D1'_Whewell's book says: "The insinuation
                 if                                                                            that

                                    is
                                          is

                                                                             is
                                                                                 is

                                                                                          is,
Plato had no regard for truth, and was quite dishonest enough

to misrepresent  he had not been deterred by prudential

considerations." This criticism assumes that the Dialogues aspire

to be treated as histories and not as inventions.

The third volume of the Platonic Dialogues devoted to

the Republic and the Timceus, the former occupying by far the

greater space. The preface  very interesting, as                  generally

the case in Dr Whewell's works; he passes briefly in view the

whole series of Dialogues which he has expounded, and considers

that they became more striking by being taken in the order

in which he has presented them. In the treatment of the

Republic the main peculiarity the division of the whole into

five parts and five digressions, which are supposed to have

been written at various times; see pages 1...5, and 146. In
pages 103...112 Dr Whewell objects to the awkward phrase

the spirited element which had been adopted by some English

writers, and appeals to Bishop Butler and St Paul as admitting

anger to be a necessary element of human virtue. The pas

sionate element of recent exposition       certame much better
                 a

                                                  is
                                                              is
English than .the spirited element. There                         not much ethical

criticism on the Republic; more might certainly have- been

expected from one who had been for many years Professor of
Meral Philosophy. Theiwell known doctrine on the condition

                   THE TIMEUS.     281

of women elicits only the epithet strange twice, and monstrous

once. A recent more advanced Platonist, though at first shocked,

seems finally half inclined to approve.

    With respect to the Timceus Dr Whewell says in his Preface
that in many parts he gives a mere abridgement. He refers
to the Etudes sur le Time'e of M. Théodore Henri Martin; a.

Iwork which remember he once strongly recommended to me.

The Timaeus is in fact very obscure, and does not present a
favourable subject for an English version. _ ,

     Since the publication of Dr Whewell's Platonic Dialogues

JEnglish students have received two valuable expositions in the

great works of Mr Grote and Professor owett; the subject may
be thus studied with double advantage, as it may be approached
respectively with the spirit of Comte and of Hegel. The beautiful
introductions which Professor Jowett has prefixed to the several

Dialogues cannot fail to delight a reader who is attached to

ancient or modern philosophy. So far as Plato is concerned,
the task of presenting the ancient classics to English readers,
which Dr Whewell recommended to the attention of scholars,

may be said to be accomplished; for in addition to these two

works named above various single Dialogues have been trans
lated and explained by skilful hands. But .notwithstanding the
far more elaborate treatment which the subject has received in

Ithe learned works to which have referred, the three volumes

published by Dr \Vhewell may retain their value as a popular
and elementary introduction. One at least of Plato's accom

plishments was a profound acquaintance with mathematics, and

it cannot be without interest to listen to a commentator who

in that respect can sympathise with his author, and who com

bines in himself a variety of erudition which may rival that'

_ 0f Leibnitz.

Among Dr Whewell's manuscripts there are drafts, more or

less complete, of numerous lectures on Plato, which he delivered

in his courses as Professor of Moral Philosophy. Many of them

are very interesting, especially those which treat on general

subjects, such as the Socrates of Xenophon and Plato, and the

Connexion and Series of the Platonic Dialogues; but it would

                                v

282 PLATONIC DIALOGUES.

be undesirable to print these because the matter which they

contain is substantially reproduced in the Platonic Dialogues for

English Readers, though in a different order and connexion, by
which the impressiveness is somewhat diminished. Dr Whewell
seems to have intended to write an Introduction to his volumes
on Plato, and part of this is executed with so much spirit
that it is to be regretted the design was not carried into
effect. Interesting letters from Lord Macaulay and other scholars
on the subject of the Platonic Dialogues for English Readers are
preserved among Dr Whewell's papers.

              CHAPTER XV.

              ENGLISH HEXAMETERS.

THE subject of English Hexameters engaged so much of

Dr Whewell's attention that it will be convenient to give a

connected account of his publications relating to it. The general

term heaameters may be used, though in some cases the verses
which will have to be noticed are composed of hexameters and

pentameters alternately, which are technically called eleyiacs. To

I Isave repetition may state here that the articles which shall

notice in this Chapter, though published anonymously, are known

to be by Dr Whewell, from allusions in his correspondence; there

Iis one exception which mention in its proper place.

    In 1837 in the History of the Inductive Sciences a passage of

eight lines from Gothe is given with a translation into English

hexameters; it occurs on page 360 of Vol. III of the third edition
of the work. Sir J. Herschel quoted the translation with praise

in his review of the History and Philosophy.             >

In 1839 a translation of Herman and Dorothea was printed,
I think for private circulation only. It is in Oblong form, con

taining on iv pages the title and introduction, and the text on
It139 pages.
              was reprinted, as we shall see, in 18417.

In 1840 the Isle of the Sirens was printed in 7 quarto pages.
This consists of an adaptation of some passages iof Carlyle's
Chartism published in 1840. It is dedicated to a friend, not

named, but easily recognisable as the present Lord Houghton, in

these words:

Senator! Poet! who long, driven on in course Odyssean,

Seekest thy home, the dwelling of Truth, through scenes of enchantment,
Seek'st in the Dark and the Strange and the New for counsel and wisdom,
List, from the lyre of a. friend, the lay of THE Isms or THE Sumns,

And s`hun thou, as then bidet, "base fear and servile contentment."

284       LETTERS 0N ENGLISH HEXAMETERS.

Mr H. Crabb Robinson, so well known for his acquaintance
with German literature, was much pleased with this piece. He

said in a letter to Dr Whewell "You must be content to hear

that the author of the Isle has beaten the translator of the

German Epos out of the field as an Hexameterist." The Isle of

the Sirens was reprinted in 1847 in the volume entitled Sunday

Thoughts and other Verses.
     In 1846 three Letters on English Hemameters were published

in Blaclcwood's Magazine; these are signed M. L., the final letters
of the name William Whewell.

     The first letter is on pages 19...21 of the number of the

Magazine for July. It consists mainly of remarks on a version

of the first book of the Iliad, published with the signature of
N. N. T.; these are the final letters of the name John Gibson

Lockhart: the authorship was disclosed by the publisher to
Dr Whewell with Mr Lockhart's permission.

     The second letter is on pages 327...333 of the number of the
Magazine for September. In this Dr Whewell insists on his main

principle, that in English hexameters we are not to attend to long

and short syllables, but to strong and weak syllables; that is we

are to regard accent not quantity. Thus in fact an English

hewameter is to be something very different from what is known

under that name in Latin and Greek. A further great difference

according to Dr Whewell, is that, to use technical terms, we must

have trochees where the ancients had spondees; that is to say

where according to the classical hexameter we should have two

strong syllables we are to have a strong syllable followed by a

weak one. This objection to spondees is an essential doctrine

with Dr Whewell, and is enforced in all the three letters. Im
mediately after the second letter we have translations of two

pieces from Schiller entitled Columbus and Odysseus: these are

reprinted in the volume noticed immediately after the three

letters.                                  1

     The third letter is on pages 4:77...480 of the number of the

IMagazine for October. It begins thus: "Dear Mr Editor, hope

Iyou will be of opinion, that have, in my two preceding letters,

proved the hexameter to be a good genuine English verse, fitted

                            KLOPSTOCK.  ->          285

to please the unlearned as well as the learned ear; and hitherto

prevented from having fair play among our readers of poetry,

mainly by the classical affectations of our hexameter writers--by

their trying to make a distinction of long and short syllables,

according to Latin rules of quantity; and by their hankering

after spondees, which the common ear rejects as inconsistent with

our native versification."  This is a very good summary of

Dr Whewell's opinions on the subject. He holds that "Klopstock's

Messiah did a great deal to give the hexameters a firm hold on

the German popular ear," and that "if Pollok's Course of Time

had been written in hexa'meters, its popularity would have been

little less than it and the hexameter would have been by this
a
                a

                      is,
time in great degree familiarised in our language." Dr Whewell

quotes with some satisfaction a translation by \Villiam Taylor

of Norwich of passage from Klopstock; to some persons the

translation will recall Coleridge's opinion that Klopstock was a

very German Milton. However the. reader can judge for himself,

and perhaps more accurately by having the passage printed continu

ously as he can then exercise himself in resolving into hex
                                                it

ameters; must in fairness be stated that the passage does not
it

begin with the beginning of a line. "While spake the eternals,

thrill'd through nature an awful earthquake. Souls that had

never- known the dawning of thought, now started, and felt for

the first time. Shudders and trembling of heart assail'd each

seraph; his bright orb hush'd as the earth when tempests are

nigh, before him was pausing. But in the souls of future

Christians vibrated transports, sweet foretastes of immortal ex

istence. Foolish against God, aught to have plann'd or done,

and alone yet alive to despondence, fell from thrones in the fiery

abyss the spirits of evil, rocks broke loose from the smouldering

caverns, and fell on_the falling: howlings of woe, far-thundering
crashes, resounded through hell's vaults." Towards the end of

the letter Dr Whewell speaks of pentameters; he says, " The

alternate hexameter and pentameter'are, for most purposes, a

more agreeable measure than the hexameter by itself]? Most

persons appear to acquiesce in this opinion; but Lord Lindsay, a

very strenuous advocate of English hexameters,  is  against the

286    ENGLISH HEXAMETER TRANSLATION S.

pentameter: see a note on page 4 of his Theory of the English

Hewameter, 1862. Dr Whewell's third letter is followed by a

translation of the Dance from Schiller into Elegiacs; this was

Ireproduced in the volume have next to notice.

    HEnglish ewameter Translations from Schiller, Gb'the, Homer,

C'allinus, and Meleager. London: John Murray, 1847. This

book is 'in oblong form; it contains viii pages of introductory

matter, and 277 of text. The volume was edited by Dr Whewell,

who started the scheme; it contains pieces by himself,

Sir J. Herschel, J. C. Hare, J. G. Lockhart, and E. C. Hawtrey.

The profits of the publication were given to the Royal Literary

Fund. Much of the volume consists of matter which had

already been printed, at least for private circulation.

Dr Whewell's principal contribution is the translation of

Gothe's Herman and Dorothea, which he had printed in 1839.

IAmong Dr Whewell's papers there is one in the handwriting,

  believe, of Sir J. Herschel, which consists of a series of sug

gested corrections of the first edition of the translation of
Herman and Dorothea.` Dr Whewell adopted none of them,

except supplying the lines occasionally marked as omitted.

Probably when he received the paper he filled up the omissions

in his copy of the first edition, which is preserved, and then
put the paper aside and never consulted it again. Dr Whewell's

pieces Columbus, Odysseus, and the Dance, which were published

in Blackwood's Magazine in 1846, are reproduced in the present

volume; besides these he gave the Sexes from Schiller, and

the Metamorphosis of Plants from Gothe, which do not seem

to have been previously published. The quatrains which occur
I`on pages viii, 1, 59, 241 of the volume are also, believe, due
to Dr Whewell; but Sir J. Herschel gave some aid for that
                                                         I
on page 1. The quatrain on page 271 is by Dr Hawtrey.
Sir J. Herschel's contribution to the volume consists of a

translation of Schiller's Walk; this had been printed in

1842.

     Mr Hare's principal contributions are the Poetical Epistles
and Alexis and Dora, all from Gothe; these had been published

in the Athenwum about eighteen years previously, and were

                      sm J. HERSCHEL.     287

now reprinted with corrections. Besides these, Hare furnished

translations of some epigrams from Schiller, which he had exe

cuted long before.

     There are four pieces by Dr HaWtrey, two from Homer,

Ione from Callinus, and one from Meleager; these think had

all been written some time before, and perhaps printed for

private circulation.

Mr Lockhart contributed one piece, a translation from Homer,

which he wrote specially for the volume.

     Letters from the contributors are preserved among the papers

of Dr Whewell. It may be inferred from them that the editor

himself and Sir John Herschel were firm believers in English

Hexameters; Mr Hare was, at least at this date, much less confi

dent, while Dr Hawtrey and Mr Lockhart were little better than
J.sceptics. Sir
                 Herschel shewed his faith some years later by

translating the whole of the Iliad. It would be unreasonable

to complain of the relaxation which such a laborious student

and investigator allowed himself, but many who have read his

famous Discourse will regret that hewameters instead of science
absorbed so much of his precious time. It may be observed

that Sir J. Herschel spontaneously admitted that a certain line

of his translation has nothing to correspond to it in the original; it

is line 4 of page 11. "What shall coerce the strong, when at

the lovely it spurns?" But he liked the line, and so let it

stand. Dr Whewell himself had specially complained of this

line when the translation was first printed. Mr Hare and
Dr Hawtrey speak in terms of high praise of Sir J. Herschel's
Itranslation;
               am sorry to see however that the two great

scholars were unable to spell correctly the name of so eminent a

philosopher. Dr Hawtrey commends for its rhythm Dr Whewell's

translation of the Metamorphosis of Plants; but his most em
phatic praise is awarded to Mr Lockhart's piece, which seems

to me the most pleasing in the volume. Perhaps the reason

may be that while the other translators followed elaborate

theories as to accent and quantity, Mr Lockhart wrote his

version straight off at a country house without any books to

Iconsult. It has, think, been stated by Mr J. C. Wright that

288 ENGLISH HEXAMETERS UNPOPULAR.

Dr Hawtrey subsequently lost his admiration for' English hex;
Iameters; but cannot give an exact reference.
                                                                     ?

Dr Whewell was a strong advocate for the cultivation of

English hexameters, as we know from his various publications

Ion the subject; for my part must confess that his arguments

do not'convince me, and the examples do not please me. It

has been commonly said that hexameters have been produced

with success in Germany, and that there is no reason why they

should be rejected in England. Now the question of the dif

ference between the English and the German languages has

been frequently discussed, and we need not stay to point out

the advantage which the Germans may have over ourselves in

this respect, though it is obvious that in the formation of com

pounds and in the arrangement of words they have resources

which we do not possess. It may be doubted however whether

the success of hexameters' in Germany has been very triumphant;

the subject treated by Klopstock may have ensured his popu

larity more than the form into which he cast his work, and the

interest of the story may have assisted Herman and Dorothea.

But even admitting that hexameters have obtained favour in

Germany two reasons may be assigned for the absence of a.
corresponding result in England.

    In the first place the greater attention which is paid in

England to Latin poetry, and especially to the composition of

Latin verse, is a strong obstacle to the reception of the so-called

English hexameter. The ears of scholars are trained to admire

the classical hexameters, and thus they cannot endure what is

presented to them under the same name, but with a'difl'erent
nature, in English. Dr Whewell himself thought that scholars

were far more hostile than ordinary English readers to the

hexameters. In the next place the main hindrance to the

toleration of English hexameters is the extraordinary extent

and beauty of the poetry we possess in the ordinary metres. It

is remarkable that a nation which is assumed to be preemi

nently practical should enjoy a poetical literature which for

amount and excellence probably surpasses that of all other

modern nations put together. The causes of this result need

SOUTHEY'S OPINION.  289

not be examined here; they depend partly on the circumstances

of national history. It is however the fact that from the days

of Chaucer, to use Dr Whewell's favourite emblem, the torch

of poetry has been transmitted from hand to hand in England,
down to our own days; and this cannot be said with respect to

any other country. In Germany the Thirty Years War, the

wars of Frederic the Great, and the wars of the French Revo

lution, have successively for a time almost arrested the course

of literature. In France the religious wars and the political
convulsions have often wasted the energies of the nation; in
Spain the inquisition seems to have burnt them up. In Italy

the ease of the language, and the licence taken by the early
writers, have so much alleviated the task of verse composition
that the poetical powers seem to be impaired for want of

due exercise. In England the efforts to conquer the difliculties

of a rugged language have been sustained through many con
tinuous centuries, and the result is the acquisition of a matchless
wealth of poetry. Thus a writer in a new or forgotten metre,
like the hexameter, has implicitly to contend against all the

range of English poets; the minds and memories of readers

supply an inexhaustible stock of passages of the highest excel--
lence, and the new aspirant is at a hopeless disadvantage. We
are reminded of Voltaire's remark, that Thomas Corneille would

have been a poet if it had not been for his brother. Southey

said that Hexameters made no way with the public because
instead of a large array of several thousand lines only a few

straggling hundreds were brought into the field; but, to carry
on this military allusion, it should not be forgotten that the

position to be won is guarded by the poetry of Shakespeare

and Milton, Dryden and Pope, Byron and Wordsworth. In

 the Dialogues on English Hewameters 1847, and in the review
of Dart's Homer in 1862, Dr Whewell seemed to find an argu
 ment for English Hexameters in the fact that women and
 children can write them; but the ease of any literary achieve
 ment is a very untrustworthy evidence of its permanent value.

      Something of the cold reception awarded to English Hexa
 meters may be due to the want of high merit in the pieces

           W. 19

290  DIALOGUE ON ENGLISH HEXAMETERS.

selected for translation in this form. The admiration which

Dr Whewell often expressed for Schiller seems to me extravagant,

and though Gothe may occupy a more assured place, yet his

hexameters are not his most famous efforts. It may be said

that the hexameter will secure a position in England when it

is adopted by some eminent poet, and that its failure hitherto

has resulted from the fact that it has been mainly used by

persons who were only accomplished versifiers. Dr Hawtrey
ascribed real poetic power to Lockhart, and assigned this as

the reason for the excellence of his piece; but, on the other

hand, we must remember that a poet so distinguished as
I ISouthey tried hexameters and failed most decidedly. Still, if
may may venture to offer an opinion,  think the cause of

hexameters will be served more by a writer who can trust his

ear and his instinct than by one who works in conscious reference

to technical rules. To give an example; in the introduction to

the first edition of his Herman and Dorothea, Dr Whewell

wrote a line thus:

            "And the tumult of day-life, softening, sinks to its slumber."

Mr J. C. Hare said the line "seems to want a cwsura. A line

that divides thus into two halves appears to me objectionable."
Accordingly the line was altered to,

            "And the tumult of day sinks soiten'mg into its slumber."

But it may be doubted whether the line is really improved by

the coesura.

     In Fraser's Magazine for December 1847, pages 665...670,

we have a Dialogue on English Hewameters. Here Marcus

condemns and Ernest praises English Hexameters.  Ernest

quotes with approbation various passages from the English

`Heazameter Translations. Gothe's Herman and Dorothea is said

to be consummate in its narrative interest and dramatic truth.

In Fraser's Magazine for March 1848,.pages 295...298, we

have a review of Longfellow's Evangeline; there are several

quotations, and the work is highly commended. No special

remarks are offered on the structure of the verse, except that

it is said: "In general, Mr Longfellow's hexameters are good.

                EVANGELINE.                               29 1

They have, without doing any violence to the pronunciation,

the mixed trissyllable and dissyllable flow, which is the character

of this kind of verse." Herman and Dorothea is here described

as "the most perfect of domestic epics, the Odyssey of the

nineteenth century,--the poem more likely to be familiar with

Iour grandchildren than any other which the past generation
has produced."  cannot follow Dr Whewell in his enthusi
Iastic estimates of German poetry;
                                         venture to agree with

Mrs Browning, who has herself made some worthy additions to
the treasures which she praises so highly: " This English people--
has it not a nobler, fuller, a more abounding and various

literature than all the people of the earth, past or present,

dead or living, all except one--the Greek people?" See the

Contemporary Review, April 1874, page 812.
    In this review of Evangeline Dr Whewell says of American

poetry, "its beauties have been rather felicitous adaptations of

the jewels of the English Muses than any new gems brought

to light from the rocks of the Alleghanies, or the sands of

the prairies." The last clause  according to rhetorical rules,
is
     is

          I is

                                            it is,
                                                      of

                                                                        it

                                                                                             is
                                                                                                            is
rather awkward, as the general term prairies does not well

balance the particular term Alleghanies. Dr Whewell had the

satisfaction of knowing that his approbation of Evangeline de

lighted the author.             January  1849, pages 103...110,

    In Fraser's Magazine for    Bothie   Toper-na-Fuosisch. A

there a review of Mr Clough's

copy of this bound up with various articles which are known

to be by Dr Whewell, in a volume in the Library of Trinity

College; but doubt whether      was really written by him.

It a very vigorous article, but seems to me not in Dr'Whewell's

style, especially the beginning and some passages on pages 108

and 109. Moreover, although in other places, as we shall see,

Dr Whewell speaks highly of Mr Clough's poem, yet  in more

moderate terms than are here employed, where we read of

"some of the most perfect hexameters, in our humble opinion,

which we have yet seen in the English language." There
no allusion to the review in Dr Whewell's correspondence.

Moreover, Mr Clough says, that "spondaic lines are almost the

                                                   19--2

292 MR CLOUGH'S POEM.

rule;" and the reviewer remarks, "as we humbly think, a very
good rule:" now this is contrary to the principle which
Dr Whewell most strenuously maintains.

    In Fraser's Magazine for March 1849, pages 342...347, we
have Dialogues on English Herameters, No. II. The subject is
Mr Clough's poem. Marcus asks, " Do you rejoice in it as a proof
of the progress of hexametrical faith, or lament over it as a

manifestation of hexametrical heresy?" The poem is highly

praised on the whole, and many quotations are given; but
Ernest is sorry that Mr Clough did not make all his hexa

meters as good as he easily could have done. At the end

IMarcus quotes some verses from Punch; will venture to give

three lines:

Tall she moved through the bar, a sarvin' of juleps and. cocktails;
Sweetnin' the cobblers with smiles, and firin' Havannahs with glances,--

Nathan J. Bowie's fair darter, splendiferous Miss Dollarina.

IMarcus asks, "How say you of Punch's hexameters t" Ernest
replies, "Ah! spare my feelings! You know  must think

Isuch pleasantries profane. But the verses are very good as to
rhythm."  had always placed these verses at the head of

English hexameters, and was amused to find a copy of them

carefully preserved among the papers of Dr Whewell.

In Fraser's Magazine for April 1849, pages 454...457, there

is a translation of Voss's Luise First Idgll, The Banquet in the
IItWood.
          occupies about three pages, and at the end We have

the words To be continued-  do not think however that any

more was printed; but there is a rough draft of 45 additional

lines among Dr Whewell's papers.

    A letter by Dr Whewell signed W. W. appeared in the
Athenceum, No. 1125, May 19, 1849. It relates to a matter

which had been noticed, in Nos. 1121 and 1124 of the Athe--

naeum. A correspondent drew attention to the opinion which

M. Philarete Chasles had expressed as to Longfellow's Evan

geline: the eminent critic appeared to consider the poem to be

alliterative. The first two sentences of Dr Whewell's letter
"Iindicate its nature.
                        have been in the habit of admiring

M. Philarete Chasles's acquaintance with our language and lite

HERMAN AND DOROTHEA.  293

rature--and see additional reason for such sentiments in his
letter to you on the subject of Mr Longfellow's `Evangeline.'

IBut venture to surmise, from what is there said, that M. Ghasles

is not quite fully informed on the history of English hexameter
poetry." The letter concludes with an example of the hexameter
which M. Chasles had given, but which had apparently been
wrongly divided; so Dr Whewell divided it thus:

           I aim | your most ] humble ind [ very" 6 | bediént [ servant.

     In Fraser's Magazine for January 1850, pages 33...40, we
have an article entitled Go'the's Herman and Dorothea. This

is in fact a review of a new translation into English hexa
 meters published anonymously in 1849. The new translator is
 blamed for having frequently done violence to the natural pro
 nunciation and accent of English words. Dr Whewell's own
 translation is referred to as the former translation or the earlier
 translation. The new translator frequently neglects the cwsura,
 and besides his defects as to versification falls into errors as to

 the sense. The following passages in the review may be noted:
      "The mention of the spondee leads us to remark that the

 present translator has continued the mistake by which several
 recent English hexameterists have marred their lines, of often
 placing a spondee at the end, instead of that which the English ear

 really demands, a trochee ....... .."
      "The former translator of the poem to whom we have referred

_had not learnt, at the time when his translation was made, to
 avoid the practice. Thus he wrote :--

       IWell would never, to see such a sight, go out in the hot day.

            But the housewife started at last, and said, as she lookt out.
             So they went in all, and all were glad of the cool air.

      But some of the other translations which are published in the
 same volume--for instance, that of Schiller's `Walk,' and those of
 Homer--are by more skilful hands, and are free from this blemish."

       Towards the end of the review some curious coincidences are
 noticed between the new translation and the earlier one. "These

 are so remarkable as at first to suggest the notion that the new
 translator must have seen the older attempt, though he nowhere,

 294 MR JAMES INGLIS COCHRANE.

we think, mentions it: .... .. But we are disposed to regard these

coincidences as evidence, not that the second translation owes any
thing to the first, but that the problem of translating German
hexameter verse into English with great closeness is very nearly a
determinate problem, and when worked out by different persons,
will give almost the same result; or at least, that this will be the
case with regard to many passages." This is curious, but it may
be doubted whether it is well established; at any rate those who
have translated Homer into hexameters, seem to vary sufficiently in
their forms of expression. Mr Lockhart, in writing to Dr Whewell,
drew attention to the difference in language between his own
version and that of Dr Hawtrey in dealing with the same passage,

though they agreed in general effect. At the end of the review

we read, "the earlier translation has already been twice reprinted
in the United States; and this has been done, as is somewhat too

commonly the case with our cousins on that side of the Atlantic,
without any acknowledgment of its English origin."

     In the third volume of Miss Winkworth's Life and Letters of
Niebuhr, 1852, there are some hexameter translations of Latin

poems of the eighth and twelfth centuries. These were written

by Dr Whewell, at the request of Bunsen; the manuscripts are
preserved among Dr Whewell's papers.

     The late Mr James Inglis Cochrane was a very earnest culti
vator of English hexameters; much correspondence passed between
him and Dr Whewell on the subject although they never had any
personal intercourse. The correspondence began in December,
1852; at that time Mr Cochrane had published translations of
Herman and Dorothea, and of Voss's Louisa; afterwards he pub
lished a translation of Hannah and her Chickens. Mr Cochrane

found relief in his literary pursuits during many years of illness
and suffering; be translated the Whole of the Iliad into hexameters,
and had his version printed. He survived Dr Whewell, a few
weeks, dying on the 19th of May, 1866; his translation of the
Iliad has not been published, but some copies were distributed
among his friends after his death.

    At the request of Mr Cochrane Dr Whewell wrote an article
on English Herameters which appeared in the North British

                     PASSAGE FROM KLOPSTOCK.                   295

Review of April 1853, where it occupies pages 129...15_0. The

article is a good account of what we may call the history of

English Hexameters ; it notices the early efforts of Sidney and

Spenser, alludes to Southey and Klopstock, and quotes several

passages from Mr Clough's Bothie of Toper-na-Fuosisch.

' A passage is given, translated by William Taylor of Norwich,

from Klopstock's Messiah; and it is said, "These lines are, for the

most part, not only smoothly rhythmical enough to satisfy any

unsophisticated ear, but graced with a significant variety of pauses,
Isuch as we admire in Milton's blank verse."
                                              will print the

passage continuously, that the reader may exercise himself in resolv

ing it into hexameters: "So at the midnight hour draws nigh to

the slumbering city pestilence. Couch'd on his broad-spread

wings lurks under the rampart death, bale-breathing, as yet

unalarm'd the inhabitants wander; close to his nightly lamp the

sage yet watches; and high friends over wine not unhallow'd, in

shelter of odorous bowers, talk of the soul and of friendship, and

weigh their immortal duration. But too soon shall frightful

death in the day of afiiction pouncing, over them spread ; in a day

of mourning and anguish; when with, wringing of hands, the bride

for the bridegroom loud wails."

The book which has already been noticed, English Hewameter

Translations, is mentioned in the article, and the names of the

authors given. It is said of the pieces, "Some of them are excel

lent specimens of hexameters; some a little harsh; among which
we may note the translation of `Herman and Dorothea.' " From

the English Hemameter Translations the translation of Schiller's

Columbus is quoted, which was one of Dr Whewell's pieces. The

last two lines are,

"Nature with genius holds a pact that is fixt and eternal:
 All which is promised by this, that never fails to perform."

    It is said that "The latter distich was quoted, with great effect,

by an illustrious German, in speaking of the discovery of the

planet Neptune by an English and a French mathematician,
before it had been disclosed by observation."

    In 1856 Dr Whewell printed for private circulation some

296 PRIAM AND HECUBA.

IElegiacs on the death of his wife:    have already adverted to

these on page 217.

    In Macmillan's Magazine for September 1860, pages 383...385,

we have a piece entitled Priam and Hecuba; this consists of a

translation of 92 lines from the Iliad, Book XXII, into English
hexameters. Dr Whewell says that "the scene preceding the

death of Hector perhaps, the most pathetic picture in the whole
a

      I
                            a is,
range of poetry." Whether be owing to less care on the part of
                                   it

the writer, or to stricter obedience to the rules which he had

laid down, cannot say; but these hexameters seem to me less

happy than others which he wrote. The following may serve

as specimen:

" But on the rest of Troy that grief will lightlier press0I if

   Then too, my son, fall not, smit down by the spear of Achilles.
   Nay but, son, return to the wall, that yet thou mayest save the
   Sons and daughters of Troy, nor feed the glory and pride of
  Him, Pelides, and so may'st escape the omen'd disaster.

Dr Whewell's correspondent, Mr Cochrane, complained of the

use of trochees instead of spondees, and sent as aspecimen the first

seven lines altered according to his views.          will first give

Dr Whewell's version, and then Mr Cochrane's.

" Thus, flying wild like deer, to their city hurried the Trojans;
   There from their sweat they cool'd, and assuaged the rage of their hot thirst,
   Leaning against the crest of the wall; and on the Achaians

   Nearer came, with their shoulders join'd, close locking their bucklers.
   But outside to remain, his malign fate, Hector ensnared,
  There in front of the Ilian wall and the Skaian portals.

   And thus then to Pelides outspake Phoebus Apolloz"

" Flying like wild deer, back to the gate the Trojans retreated;:"
   Here they their hot thirst quenched, and the warm sweat washed from their

           bodies,

  Leaning the while on the crest of the wall; but the Argives, advancing,
  Nearer approached with their shoulders joined, close-locking their bucklers.

   Destiny dire howbeit ensnar'd brave Hector to linger
  Still outside at the Scaian portals in front of the city.
  Whereupon Phoebus Apollo addressed thus godlike Peleides

    In llIac-millan's Magazine for April 1862, pages 487...496,
Dr Whewell reviewed the translation of the first twelve books
of the Iliad into hexameters by Mr Dart. The review begins

TRANSLATIONS OF THE ILIAD.  297

by defending English hexameters against Dean Alford, and a
writer in Fraser's Magazine. Some praise is awarded to Mr Dart,
but he is blamed for forcing the rhythm, especially in the

case of proper names. A remark on page 488 might lead

to some confusion between the names of Dr Hawtrey and

Mr Lockhart. _ It is said that Dr Hawtrey translated a great part

of the sixth Book, and that Mr Lockhart "had translated, per--
haps even better than Dr Hawtrey, the Parting of Hector and
Andromache...." But Mr Lockhart really translated the largest
part of the sixth Book, namely, lines 236.....5'16 ; while
Dr Hawtrey translated only lines 394...504, which consist of the
Parting of Hector and Andromache. Dr Whewell, in his cor
respondence with Mr Cochrane, speaks of Herschel's Walk and

Lockhart's Homer as the best English hexameters. On page
490 Dr Whewell anticipates that a good version of Homer into
English hexameters will obtain currency; but as yet this has
not happened. Sir John Herschel's seems to have been but

coldly received, and Lord Derby's is perhaps the only very popular
translation among the many that have appeared in recent years.

   I have already said that Mr Cochrane translated the whole

of the Iliad into hexameters; the first Book was published
during his life-time. We see from his preface to it that there
was a very important difference of principle between him and
Dr Whewell ; for he adhered to the spondee while. D-r Whewell
held that writers of English hexameters erred by " hankering
after spondees." The following is an extract from Mr Cochrane's
preface: "The difference between a hexameter line composed
of dactyls and spondees, and one composed of dactyls and
trochees, cannot be better illustrated than by three well-known

                                                                                                                                                                           V

hexameter lines occurring in the Sacred Scriptures:

    ` Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?'

  " How art thou fallen from heav'n, O Lucifer, son of. the morning 1'

    ` Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.'

The first two lines are composed of dactyls and spondees, for
as `heathen' ends with a consonant, it may be considered a

spondee; the last line of the three is composed entirely of tro

chees, except the fifth foot. Now, let any person, even though

  298 TRANSLATIONS OF THE ILIAD.

  unacquainted with hexameter verse, read these lines aloud, and
  it will be at once obvious that the first two lines have a
  majesty and harmony of flow totally wanting in the third line:

  indeed the third line can hardly be considered verse at all."
  Still however some persons may assert that the third verse is
  at least as good as the first, and that there is something arbi
  trary in asserting that the third line is composed entirely of

 trochees, except the fifth foot.

      In Macmillan's Magazine for August 1862, pages 297...304,
 there is an article by Dr Whewell entitled New Hewameter
 Translations of the Iliad. This is a review of two translations
 of the first Book of the Iliad, one by Sir John Herschel, and
 one by Mr Cochrane. The difference in the versification of the two
 is that Sir John Herschel'prefers trochees, while Mr Cochrane
 strives for spondees ; Dr Whewell, according to his established
 principles, prefers the former. But he is much more tolerant
 of the spondees than in previous articles, and he admits that
 some readers may prefer them as more' classical. In a letter
he allows that Mr Goehrane's verses are good German hexa
 meters, but thinks them not good English hexameters. By

 a comparison of various passages of the two translations,
 Dr Whewell concludes that Sir John Herschel's is superior as

 to the rendering of the meaning.
     This article is one of the most interesting of those which

Dr Whewell published on the subject, and being the last may
be regarded as containing his final opinion. A few sentences
from the first paragraph may be quoted: "As was long ago said in

the discussions on this subject [English hexameters], the fallacy
of the impossibility of such verses is like the ancient fallacy of

the impossibility of motion--solvitur ambulando. Southey was
convinced of this; and intending to make English hexameter

verse current, he proposed, as he writes to his correspondent

Taylor, to march down upon the English public twenty thou
sand strong. Unluckily the result of this project was that
most unhappy performance, The Vision of Judgment. And yet
the introductory verses to that poem are allowed by all to be
beautiful in rhythm as in expression." Dr Whewell took a

LINES FROM CORRESPONDENTS.                                             299

lively interest in the progress of Sir John Herschel's translation
of the Iliad, and read much of the manuscript, as appears from

the correspondence between them during the years 1862...1865.
The book was dedicated to him.

     Some of Dr Whewell's friends seem to have amused them

Iselves by sending indifferent hexameters to him; will ven

ture to print two specimens from eminent scholars and divines.

" I, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., to the Head of Trinity, greeting,

Thanks, many thanks, Master, for your most acceptable present,
Just come from Murray's shop, but sent by the Editor also,

Brimfull of hexameters, translated all from the German,

Except some very few from Greek original authors--

Almost impossible, in our own inharmonious English
Harsh words to modulate, and arrange in rhythmical order,

Such as might please the ear of a staunch admirer of Homer.

Quantity, which regulates all the flow of classical verses,
With well known fixt laws, in our tongue is an element unknown,

While accent ill supplies its place in versification.

IThat which complain of, in our English hexameters,
IIs a want of spondees, and the too great number of dactyls,
But still more  object to the want of a natural pause, or,

Suspension of the verse, meant we commonly call it.

But time forbids me to extend my remarks any further,

80 no more just now from your most obedient Servant."

" Master of Trinity College, to day the. . . . . . . Feoffees

      Met in their new School room, cast up their many accounts.
  L0! they found to their sorrow that there was a balance against them

      Small tho' the debt it is high whenas the pocket is low.
  There stand fully against them in horrible characters marshall'd

      Forty two pounds and six shillings and thirty four pence.

   So they humbly entreat that you would send your subscription,
     And as much more as you may reckon it proper to give.

   Duly rememb'ring the spot where you learned hexametral music,

    IBidding in due response nimble pentameters roll.

   Thus write representing Feoffees and Master and Scholars

    IWho of dinner are now fuller by far than of verse.

 . Thus compose in spirit and letter stans pede in uno.

      Thanks that I'm long with one leg--Homer was short of two eyes.
  0 let our cause erect before thee stand upon two legs:

     May for accents weak quantity come in return,

 ILame as Tyrtseus of old may stir thy masculine mind up.

     ` Glorious it is for a. man bravely to bleed for his school.' "

     These lines received a favourable reply, for in the course
of a week the writer says: "Many thanks for your kind

300 OPINIONS 0F CORRESPONDENTS.

I Ienclosure which
                    have forwarded to our Treasurer.        am
Iproud of your approval of my Elegiacs. But
                                                  cannot help

thinking that the Hexameter constructed according to the Latin

accent would be best, if our language could provide words

long enough for it--which however it cannot."

    The papers of Dr Whewell include many letters from cor

respondents on the subject of English Hexameters; they shew

that he did not make many converts to his own firm belief
Iin the attractions of this kind of poetry.
                                                  will give extracts

from three of these letters:

    (1) "You and Herschel have not quite satisfied me that the
ancient metres are well suited to our language. But you have

satisfied me of what is much more important---that a genius

for poetry and a genius for the several sciences are perfectly

compatible."

   I(2) "But it is not a measure which should wish to see much

of `in our poetry. Deal with it how we may, to my ear the

cadences are too pronounced and importunate ; and the fall

Iat the close of every line is against elasticity and vigour.
    think the consonantal effects hardly have fair play in
                                                  is        and
                                                                  it,

                                                                     it
the rhythmic efl'ects generally which are most favoured by

seem to me to be those which belong to visionary and pic

turesque poetry, rather than to that which        significant or

impassioned."

    "I(3) have been reading Herman and Dorothea with great

delight, and found much in of general truth and very noble
    a

             is I

                           if
                                 it

                                               a
ideal of manhood and womanhood--much to be thought upon...

In the first place  cannot get over- the hexameters. They

seem to me easy to write if,--once you assume you may stop

when you like in the midst of sentence ;--into an uncouth

order the words of average English--forcing by pokes in the

ribs--as crowd      poked by policemen. Not without loss of

sense; and the trampling down of the weakest words in the

stream of the metre. But this power were denied you (Power
said I--license rather, which ends in doubt and disorder) much

   muse whether verses like these could be written in English.
II
    see there  is  an awkward tendency to run constantly into

OPINIONS OF CORRESPONDENTS.                301

Idactyls--and should not like to have to write all my letter

so--but it seems to me there is little difficulty in getting on, if

these licences be taken--especially of transposition; and that the

difficulty of a metre enhances our delight in the power which

Ivanquishes it into pure English and flowing melody. But

cannot tell how much of this feeling is mere prejudice--no--not

prejudice, but true liking and disliking excused by custom--not

based on principle.
IFor the manner of the Story itself like its Homeric tone
I I---but
don't honour Goethe for taking an Homeric tone.

dislike in general the feeling of a resolute effort to imitate--a

man may be involuntarily affected by another's style or modes

of feeling; but here there is afiectation of parallelism. Then
the story is a sufficiently absurd one--for this or the last cen-'

tury. Prudent young men do not bring home a strolling girl

and betroth themselves to her 24! hours after seeing her, what

ever may be the result of their `enquiries as to character.' It

reminds one immensely of buying a horse."

CHAPTER XVI.

SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.

                                        /

I SHALL give in this Chapter a short account of Dr Whewell's

Memoirs contributed to various scientific societies and journals.

I follow the order of the Royal Society's Catalogue of Scientific

Papers, and take the numbering from that catalogue. The

papers relating to the Tides have been noticed in the Chapter

Ion that subject, so that need not recur to them.

     1. On the Position of the Apsides of Orbits of great Excen

trieity. This memoir occupies pages 179...191 of Vol. I of the

Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read on April 17,

1820. The following is the proposition investigated: Let there

be a central force which is constant, or which varies according to

a power of the distance; let a particle be projected at right

angles to the distance with a velocity which is very small, com

pared with the velocity in a circle at that distance; then it is

required to determine the angle described round the centre of
Ifforce before reaching a second apse.
                                        the force is constant, or

varies as any direct power of the distance, the angle is found to
Ifbe very approximately a right angle.
                                        the force varies inversely

as the nm power of the distance, where n is between 1 and 3,

the angle is found to be very approximately 3_n of two right

angles.

  - 2. On Double Crystals of Fluor Spar. This memoir occupies
pages 331...342 of Vol. I of the Cambridge Philosophical Trans
actions; it was read on November 26, 1821. These crystals in

their most common forms are cubes, but there is a peculiarity
which is thus described : " ...we see sometimes a large cube, with

     ANGLES OF CRYSTALS.  303

4:.only one corner of a smaller one appearing above its surface; and

 at other times, two crystals, nearly equal, seem to penetrate and

 pierce through each other in a very curious manner, which is.v

 best understood by specimens." The calculation of the angles

 between the edges and the faces thus exhibited is effected by

 the aid of some simple Trigonometry, Plane and Spherical.

A few remarks occur at the end respecting what are called the

 integrant molecules of crystals.

     3. A General Method of calculating the Angles made by any

 Planes of Crystals, and the laws according to which they are

 formed. This memoir occupies pages 87...130 of the Philosophical
 Transactions for 1824:; it was read on November 25, 1824!. We

 have here investigations relating to the angles of planes and

 straight lines, conducted by the aid of Geometry of Three Dimen
 sions; the crystals themselves which suggest the problems are

 not brought very prominently forward, so that the whole memoir

 is intelligible to a person with an elementary knowledge of

 mathematics. The formulae required are principally two, which

 are given in the memoir forming number 5 of the present series.

 At the end of the memoir reference is made to a paper by
 Mr Levy, in which the principle at the basis of Dr Whewell's

 investigations is employed; but the formulae in the memoir were
 mostly calculated before that paper fell under Dr Whewell's

J.notice. Dr Whewell consulted Sir Herschel as to the destina

tion of this memoir; and he decided in favour of the Royal

 Society. In a draft of a letter preserved among Sir J. Hersehel's

 papers, but not sent to Dr Whewell, it is recorded that the

 method of the memoir had already presented itself to his mind.
 Sir Humphry Davy, then President of the Royal Society, spoke

 highly of the memoir in a letter to its author; he said, "It has

 appeared to our best judges on this subject to be an admirable
 application cf mathematical to physical science, a species of inves

 tigation which the Royal Society has every disposition to encou

rage." A short notice of the memoir is given in the Edinburgh

 Journal of Science, Vol. 11,1825, pages 312...315.
            On the Rotatory Motion of Bodies. This memoir occupies

 pages 11...2O of Vol. II of the Cambridge Philosophical Trans

304              LANDEN'S ERRORS.

actions; it was read on May 6, 1822. The problem of the

motion of a rigid body round a fixed point had been discussed

by D'Alembert, Euler, and Lagrange; and their results were in

agreement. Landen, an English mathematician of some reputation,

had in 1785 and 1789 published opinions quite at variance with

the conclusions of the great foreign writers. The present memoir

urges an ingenious argument against Landen. A particular rigid

body is taken, namely, a system of three particles in rigid con

nexion; then by using equations of motion for particles, which

were universally accepted, formulae are obtained coinciding with

those of Euler, and therefore contradicting those of Landen.

It seems scarcely possible that any person who might have been

led astray by Landen's authority could have failed to submit to

the reasoning of the memoir.

     5. On the Angle made by two Planes, or two Straight Lines,

referred to three oblique Co-ordinates.  This memoir occupies

pages 197...202 of Vol. II of the Cambridge Philosophical T'rans--

actions; it was read on November 2%, 1823. Two problems in

Geometry of Three Dimensions are here solved, the first by

Dr Whewell, and the second by Mr Lubbock. The elements

by which the oblique system is determined are not the same in

the two problems; in the former they are the angles between the

co-ordinate planes, and in the latter they are the angles between

the co-ordinate axes. The modern elementary books when they

treat the subject usually employ the elements adopted in the

latter problem.

     6. On the Classification of Crystalline Combinations, and the

Canons by which their Laws of Derivation may be investigated.

This memoir occupies pages 391...425 of Vol. II of the Cambridge

Philosophical Transactions; it was read on November 13, 1826.

A scheme of notation is given by which the forms of crystals may

be denoted, and this is applied to a long list of crystals; the
whole is illustrated by five plates. \Ve read on page 395, " The

demonstrations of the preceding theorems will be given in another
place. To complete the subject it will also be requisite to give
methods of transforming the symbols, which are emplOyed in

other systems of notation hitherto proposed, (those of Hauy,

NOTATION FOR CRYSTALS.  305

\Veiss, Mohs, &c.) into this system. This will be done by means
of certain formulae, which we may call formula; of transformation."
The design hcre announced does not seem to have been carried

into effect.

      7. Reasons for the Selection of a Notation to designate the
Planes of Crystals. This memoir occupies pages 4:27...4!39 of
Vol. II. of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read
on February 11, 1827, for the date given, 1826, is obviously a
misprint. This memoir takes as a basis the notation of Mohs,
but alters it so as to render it less repulsive to a person of

mathematical tastes, and more useful for crystallography. The

subject is treated briefly in the Novum Organon Renovatum,

pages 357...359. On the first page of the memoir there is
an allusion to a certain point, and we are told that "the dis
cussion of it must be reserved for another opportunity:" and on

page 437, after an allusion to the designation of twin crystals,
we are told, "but this will be considered hereafter." There

seems however to be nothing corresponding to these two an

nouncements.

     8. Specimen of the use of Notation in the Analysis of Crys
talline Forms. This paper occupies pages 1...6 of the Edinburgh
Journal of Science, Vol. VI, 1827. The notation proposed in
number 3 of this series is noticed towards the beginning of the

paper in these words: "Such a notation is that of Weiss, which

Idiffers very little from a system which had proposed in the

Philosophical Transactions (Part I, 1825), without being aware
that any similar method had been elsewhere brought forwards."
But the present paper asserts "that it is possible to obtain, in
almost all cases, the laws of crystalline derivation more simply"
than by the method of the former memoir. An example is taken;
but the enunciations only of the theorems which it is necessary to

use are given.

     9. On the principles of Dynamics, particularly as stated by
French Writers. This paper occupies pages 27...38 of the Edin
burgh Journal of Science, Vol. VIII, 1828. Dr Whewell maintains
that we require three distinct laws of motion, in opposition to the
French writers, who reduced the second and third laws to one

        w_ 20

306 POLITICAL ECONOMY.

principle; he enforced his opinion in number 23 of this series,
and in the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences.

     10. Mathematical Exposition of some Doctrines of Political

Economy. This memoir occupies pages 191...230 of Vol. III of

the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read on March 2
and 14, 1829. The design of the memoir is very simple. Taking

certain principles adopted by some of the writers on Political
Economy, it proposes to deduce, by the aid of Algebra, the neces
sary consequences of these principles. Thus the resources of the
most generalised forms of calculation are employed instead of
ordinary arithmetic; and the example thus given of the use of

mathematics might be imitated with great advantage by the
professional cultivators of Political Economy. Comte is said to

have advised students of Natural Philosophy to become sufliciently

familiar with mathematics to be able to check the abuses arising

from the treatment of physics by the extreme analysts; and in

like manner Political Economists might guard themselves if they

anticipated any dangers from the incursions of mathematicians.

The problems discussed in the memoir relate to the distribution

of the burden of taxes which afl'ect the land, between the

landlord, the cultivator, and the consumer; the special circum

stance which has to be regarded being, that if any burden is

thrown on the land some of the poorest sorts may go out of

cultivation. It is conceivable that the mode of cultivation may

be changed, but whether land to any appreciable extent is ever

thrown out of cultivation may be doubted; the supposition that

such is the case, however, is frequently made by theoretical

writers.

11. Observations on some passages of Dr Lardner's Treatise

on Mechanics.  This paper occupies pages 148...155 of the

Edinburgh Journal of Science, new series, Vol. III, 1830. In his
Treatise on Mechanics, Dr Lardner had spoken of Newton's three

laws of motion as having little or no utility; and Dr Whewell

combats this opinion. The paper is very interesting, especially in
tracing the consequences of supposing that bodies, by a universal

law, tend to move more and more slowly the longer they con

tinue in motion. This imaginary state of things is alluded to in

                                                                                                     I         307

                  NOTATION IN CHEMISTRY.

a note to the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, second edition,
Vol. I, pages 219 and 220.

     12. Progress of Geology. This is mentioned in the Royal

Society's Catalogue as occupying pages 242...267 of the Edinburgh
New Philosophical Journal, Vol. XI, 1831. On examining these
pages, however, they will be found to censist of passages attributed
to various authors, the first and last only to Dr Whewell, which

are extracts from his review of Lyell's work on Geology.

     13. On the employment of Notation in Chemistry. This
paper occupies pages 437...453 of the Journal of the Royal Insti- '
tution of England, 1831. According to Dr Whewell, the greater
part of English chemists had "been hitherto averse from the

practice of using a technical and mathematical notation to express

the chemical composition of bodies." On the continent the

notation of Berzelius had been used, notwithstanding several

anomalies and inconveniences. Accordingly the paper proposes

"to remove the gross anomalies and defects with which the foreign

                                                 with as little change as
notation is disfigured, and to reduceis is
                                          is
                                                 it,

                                            iIs,
possible, to mathematical symmetry and consistency." The nota

tion recommended  very simple and expressive, and its merits

are clearly set forth in the paper. The subject was briefly

noticed by Dr \Vhewell at a much later period: see the Nouum

Organon Renovatum, pages 359...364. In the Philosophical
                                                 a paper by Mr J. Prideaux,
Magazine for August, 1831, there

the object of which to defend the chemical notation of Berzelius

against the criticisms of Dr Whewell. It                                                                think, to this

paper by Dr Whewell that Mr Faraday alluded in a letter dated

February 21, 1831, in which he says: "Your remarks upon

chemical notation with the variety of systems which have arisen

with regard to notation, nomenclature, rules of proportional or

atomic numbers, &c., &c., had almost stirred me up toiregret

publicly that such hindrances to the progress of science should

exist.  cannot help thinking a most unfortunate thing that
        I

                                             it

men who as experimentalists and philosophers are the most fitted

to advance the general course of science and knowledge, should by
the promulgation of their own theoretical views under the form

of nomenclature, notation, or scale, actually retard its progress.

                                                                                                        20--2

308 . ISOMORPHISM.

It would not be of much consequence if it was only theory and

hypothesis which they thus treated, but they put facts or the

current vein of science into the same limited circulation when

they describe them in such a way that the initiated only can

read them."

    On pages 224:...2410 of the Journal of the Royal Institution of

England, 1821, there is a paper entitled "Description of a Mode

of erecting light Vaults over Churches and similar Spaces. By

bMr.iddgee)"LassaItuxm. ay(Cboempmreusunmiceadtedthabty   Professor Whewell of Cam
                                                         this article was translated by
Dr Whewell from the original, in French or German. It is of

a technical character, suited to architects and builders. It con

cludes with a modest but rather timid reason, given by M. de

Lassaux for his resolution of limiting himself in future to the
round-arch style: " This subject
             is

                          it

                                         is,
                                                                            a
                                  moreover, the more agreeable,

because less that fine in has come down to us; while, on the

contrary, our buildings in the pointed style, compared with those

of the ancients, always appear more or less as                                 miserable

subterfuge."

     14. On Isomorphism. This paper occupies pages 401...412
of the Philosophical Magazine for December, 1831. Dr Whewell

here maintains the importance and utility of the doctrine of

Isomorphism against the contrary opinion which had been ad~
vanced by Mr Brooke in the Philosophical Magazine for September,

1831. See also on this subject the History               the Inductive
                                                         I,

                                                                  of

                                                                                           is
Sciences, 3rd edition, Vol. III, page 189, and the Philosophy of

the Inductive Sciences, 2nd edition, Vol. page 464. There

a note on pages 405 and 406 of this paper on Isomorphism

which alludes to the remarks on chemical notation made by

J.Mr Prideaux. See the account of number 13 of this series.

15. Report on the recent Progress and Present State of

Mineralogy. This paper occupies pages 322...365 of the first

volume of the Reports of the British Association;        it                    was pre

sented to the meeting at Oxford in 1832. Much of the substancea

of this Report was embodied in the parts of the History and

of the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences which are devoted to

Mineralogy. A remark made on page 338 relative to mineral

            POLITICAL ECONOMY.                                  309

examined by Mr Brooke wasthought by him to be incorrect,

and he wrote on the subject to Dr Whewell, who attended to

the matter in a note on page xviii of the next volume of the
                                          `
Reports of the British Association.

16. Mathematical Exposition of some of the leading Doc

trines in Mr Ricardo's "Principles of Political Economy and

Taxation." This memoir occupies pages 155...198 of Vol. IV of

the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read April 18

and May 2, 1831. Certain Postulates are taken which are the

foundation of the doctrines of Mr Ricardo, and these are traced

to their consequences by the aid of Algebra. Dr Whewell by

no means accepts these Postulates himself, but as he says:

"Perhaps, however, to trace their consequences may be one of

the most obvious modes of verifying or correcting them." From

page 177 of the memoir we learn the connexion between this

and number 10 of the series. In the present memoir the prin--

ciples of Ricardo are traced to their consequences; in the former

memoir Dr Whewell followed Colonel Perronet Thompson's views

in opposition to those of Ricardo, on an important point, and
deduced results contrary to those of Ricardo. This memoir.

and also number 10 of the series are very interesting and in

structive.

17. Essay towardsv a first approximation to a Map of Cotidal

Lines. Philosophical Transactions, 1833.

, 18. Suggestions respecting Sir John Herschel's Remarks

on the theory of the Absorption of Light by coloured media.

This paper occupies pages 550...552 of the Report of the

meeting of the British Association held at Edinburgh in 1834!.

Sir John Herschel had made some remarks with the view of

furnishing a possible explanation of the phenomena of the

Absorption of Light on the principles of the Undulatory

Theory; it is the object of the paper to add a little confirma

tion to the proposed explanation.

19. Remarks on a recent Statement by Berzelius respecting

the Use of Chemical Formulae. This paper occupies pages 9 and

10 of the Philosophical Magazine for January, 1834.

Berzelius replied to the criticisms contained in number 13

310                                                 I

     ANEMOMETER. -

of this series; here Dr Whewell notices the reply, and main

tains the justness of his original criticisms.
     20. On the Empirical Laws of the Tides in the Port of

London, with some Reflexions on the Theory. Philosophical Trans

actions, 1834.

      21. Report on the Recent Progress and Present Condition of

the Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat.
This paper occupies pages 1...34 of the Report of the meeting
of the British Association held at Dublin in 1835; it is of

the same valuable character as the other historical papers
which enrich the volumes published by the British Association.
The report is reproduced in the relative portions of the History
of the Inductive Sciences but in a condensed form; in particular
the mathematical allusions in the report are omitted in the

History.

      22. On a New Anemometer. The Report of the meeting of
the British Association, held at Dublin in 1835, contains a few

lines concerning the anemometer which Dr Whewell invented,

and which be exhibited at the meeting: see page 29 of the
Transactions of the Sections in the volume. The Report of the
meeting of the British Association, held at Bristol in 1836, con
tains a little more about the anemometer: see pages 39 and 40

of the Transactions of the Sections in the volume. One of the
anemometers was at this date erected at Cambridge, and others
were about to be erected at York and at Plymouth. There is an
account of the working of one of Dr Whewell's anemometers,
from July 1840 to July 1841, in pages 36 and 37 of the Report
of the meeting of the British Association held at Plymouth in
1841. For accounts of other anemometers, and for improve
ments in Dr Whewell's construction, see pages 340...346 of the

Report of the meeting of the British Association held at South

ampton in 1846; also pages 111 and 112 of the Transactions of

the Sections in the volume. See also the references to various

volumes of the Reports in the Index to the Reports and Trans
actions of the British Association from 1831 to 1860.

     In the Transactions of the Sections of the Report of the
meeting of the British Association held at Dublin in 1835, there

NEWTON AND FLAMSTEED.                              311

are some remarks by Dr Whewell on the Tides on page 6, and on

the application of physical science to geology on pages 65 and 66;
there are also a few lines respecting the Tides on page 130 in the

Transactions of the Sections of the Report of the meeting held at
Bristol in 1836.

     23. On the Nature of the Truth of the Laws of Motion.
This memoir occupies pages 149...172 of Vol. V of the Cam~
bridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read on Feb. 17, 1834.
Dr Whewell maintains that each of the three laws of motion
involves a necessary and an empirical element. Thus, for in
stance, with respect to the first law he finds the necessary
element to be, velocity does not change without a cause; and
the empirical element to be, the time during which a body

has already been in motion is not a cause of change of velocity_

The doctrine is substantially the same as was afterwards en

forced in the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences; and the
memoir is reprinted in the Appendix to the second edition of

that work.
     24:. On the Results of Tide Observations made in June 1834,

at the Coast Guard Stations in Great Britain and Ireland.

Philosophical Transactions, 1835.

25. On the probable importance of Tide Observations at

Ithe Cape of Good Hope. South African Quarterly Journal,
Vol. II, 1835, pages 367...372.    have not been able to see this.

26. Remarks on a Note on a Pamphlet entitled "Newton

and Flamsteed," in No. UK of the Quarterly Review. This

paper occupies pages 211...218 of the Philosophical Magazine
for March, 1836; it appeared also in the Cambridge Chronicle of
the period, and is reprinted in the second edition of Dr Whewell's
pamphlet entitled "Newton and Flamsteed," which we have
already noticed. The next two articles in the Philosophical Maga

zine are on the same subject ; the first is by Professor Rigaud, and
the second is signed O. S.: both agree with Dr Whewell against

the Quarterly Review.                              On the Empi
     27. Researches on the Tides. Fourth Series.    Philosophical

rical Laws of the Tides in the Port of Liverpool.

Transactions, 1836.

312 TIDES.

     28. Researches on the Tides. Fifth Series. On the Solar
Inequality, and on the Diurnal Inequality of the Tides at Liver

pool. Philosophical Transactions, 1836.           On the Results
     29. Researches on the Tides. Sixth Series.

of an extensive system of Tide Observations made on the Coasts
of Europe and America in June, 1835. Philosophical Trans

actions, 1836.      A few remarks on Tides occur on pages 4
     30. On Tides.

and 5 of the Transactions of the Sections, in the Report of the
meeting of the British Association held at Liverpool in 1837.

Also on pages 32 and 33, there are a few remarks on the prin

ciple of Dr Whewell's anemometer.

31. Researches on the Tides. Seventh Series. On the Diur

nal Inequality of the Height of the Tide, especially at Plymouth
and at Singapore, and on the Mean Level of the Sea. Philoso

phical Transactions, 1837.                        On the Pro--
     32. Researches on the Tides. Eighth Series.

gress of the Diurnal Inequality Wave along the Coasts of Europe.

Philosophical Transactions, 1837.                 ~

33. Account of a Level Line measured from the Bristol

Channel to the English Channel during the years 1837...38 by

Mr Bunt. This paper is printed in- the Report of the meeting of

the British Association, held at Newcastle-omTyne in 1838.

Pages 1.'..11 are by Dr Whewell; they are followed on pages

11...18 by Mr Bunt's explanation of the details of the

process.                                     This occupies pages
     34. Report on the discussion of Tides.

19 and 20 of the volume just mentioned.

     35. On the Results of Observations made with a new Anemo
meter. This memoir occupies pages 301...315 of Vol. VI of the
Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read on May 1,
1837. The memoir contains a brief description of the machine

with directions for observing with it. In a plate we have an

exhibition of the integral effect of the wind, as determined by
one of the machines at Edinburgh and two of them at Cambridge,

Iduring the month of March, 1837. may observe that Directions

for observing with Whewell's Anemometcr were printed separately

                              TlDES.                   313

on an octavo page; they agree substantially with what we have

in this memoir.

36. Researches on the Tides. Ninth Series. On the Deter

mination of the Laws of the Tides from short Series of Observa

tions. Philosophical Transactions, 1838.

    37. On Tide-calculation. A few remarks on the Tides occur

in the Report of the meeting of the British Association held at

Birmingham in 1839: see pages 17 and 18 of the part of the

volume devoted to reports, and pages 11 and 12 of the Trans

actions of the Sections. Also in the Report of the meeting held

at Glasgow in 1840, we have on pages 436...439 a report on the

application of part of a sum of money, voted at the Birmingham

meeting, for work on the Tides; this is followed by a letter from

Mr Bunt, giving an account of his calculations under the direction

of Dr Whewell.

38. Remarks on Dr Wollaston's argument respecting the

infinite Divisibility of Matter, drawn from the finite Extent of the

Atmosphere. These occur on page 26' of the Transactions of the
Sections in the Report of the meeting of the British Associa

tion, held at Birmingham in 1839. Dr Whewell maintains that

Dr Wollaston's argument is quite baseless: see also the Philosophy

of the Inductive Sciences, 2nd edition, Vol. I, page 436.
     39. Rapport sur les progres de la géologie, principalement en

Angleterre, pendant l'année aeadémi'que, 1837...38, L'Institut,
Vol. VII, 1839, pages 175, 176, 183, 184, 211, 212. This is a

translation of that part of Dr Whewell's Address to the Geological

Society, delivered in February 1838, which relates to the progress

of geology during the preceding year. Some details are given on
points to which Dr Whewell only alluded.

40. Researches on the Tides. T'enth Series. On the Laws

of Low Water at the Port of Plymouth, and on the Permanency of

Mean Water. Philosophical Transactions, 1839.       .

41. Researches on the Tides. Eleventh Series. On certain

Tide Observations  made  in the Indian  Seas.       Philosophical

                                                 i

Transactions, 1839 and 1840.

42. On the relations of Tradition to Palaetiology. This paper

occupies pages 258...274 0f the Edinburgh New Philosophical

31 4       '  TIDES.

Journal, Vol. XXIX, 1840. It is taken from the Philosophy of the

Inductive Sciences ; see the second edition, Vol. 1, pages 680...699.

     43. Rapport sur les progres de la géologie, principalement en
Angleterre, pendant l'année académique, 1838...39, L'Institut,
Vol. VIII, 1840, pages 4...6, 15, 16, 34, 35. This is a translation

of that part of Dr Whewell's address to the Geological Society,

delivered in February 1839, which relates to the progress of Geo--

logy during the preceding year.
     44. On the mean Level of the Sea. This paper occurs on

pages 321...325 of the Philosophical llIagazine for November,

1840. The first paragraph indicates its nature and its connexion

with the operation noticed in number 33 of this series. "In the

Philosophical Magazine for August last, page 134, and the fol
lowing, are some remarks by Mr Richard Thomas, on the Account

of a Level Line, published in the Transactions of the British

Association for 1838. The level line was carried from the Bristol

IChannel to the English Channel by Mr Bunt, under my direction:

the conclusion which drew from the operation was, that the

mean height of the sea was at the same level at the two extremi
Ities of the line; and this conclusion Mr Thomas disputes.
                                                            beg

to offer a few observations on the subject, suggested by his

remarks."

45. Researches on the Tides. Twelfth Series. On the Laws

of the Rise and Fall of the Seas Surface during each Tide.

Philosophical Transactions, 1840.

     46. Report on Discussions of Bristol Tides, performed by

Mr Bunt. This paper occurs on pages 30...33 of the Report of
the meeting of the British Association held at Plymouth in 1841.

It contains the results of calculations to determine if any effect on

the heights of the tides at Bristol is produced by atmospheric

pressure. The average efl'ect appeared to be about 15 inches de

pression of high water to 1 inch rise of mercury in the barometer.
     47. Report on the Discussion of Leith Tide Observations,

executed by Mr D. Ross. This paper occurs on pages 34...36 of
the volume which contains number 46.

     48. Demonstration that all Matter is heavy. This memoir
occupies pages 197...207 of Vol. VII of the Cambridge Philoso

CAUSE AND EFFECT.  315

Iphical Transactions; it was read on February 22, 1841. The

memoir does not seem to me very convincing; and have made
a remark on it already: see page 138. The memoir was reprinted
in the Appendix to the second edition of the Philosophy of the

Inductive Sciences, and subsequently in the Appendix to the Phi
losophy of Discovery. Dr Whewell's opinion was controverted by
Sir W. Hamilton, and Dr Whewell's reply is given in his History
of Scientific Ideas, Vol. II, pages 37 and 38, and also in his Phi
losophy of Discovery, pages 330 and 331.

      49. Discussion of the Question :-----Are Cause and Effect suc
cessive or simultaneous? This memoir occupies pages 319...331 of

Vol VII of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read

on March 14, 1842. The discussion was suggested by some re

marks made by Sir J. Herschel in his review of the History and

Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences. The memoir decides with

justice that strictly speaking cause and effect are simultaneous,

that is the instantaneous effect or change is simultaneous with
the instantaneous force or cause by which it is produced. But at

the same time it explains how if "we consider a. series of such

instantaneous forces as a single aggregate cause, and the final

condition as a permanent effect of this cause, the effect is subse
quent to the cause." The memoir was reprinted in the Appendix

to the second edition of the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences,
and subsequently in the Appendix to the Philosophy of Dis

covery.

      50. On Glacier Theories. This and the next may be taken

 together.

      51. Remarks on Mr Hopkins's reply to "Remarks on Glacier

Theories." Three short papers relating to glacier theories were
published by Dr Whewell in the Philosophical Magazine, Vol.

XXVI, 1845'. A controversy had arisen between Mr Hopkins and
Professor J. D. Forbes; and Dr Whewell intervened at the request

of the latter. The first paper is entitled On Glacier Theories;
it occupies pages 171...173 of the volume. The second paper is
entitled Additional Remarks on Glacier Theories; it occupies
pages 217...220 of the volume. Mr Hopkins is not named; but
he understood the papers to refer to himself; and he replied in

31 6                  NORTHERN DRIFTS.

pages 334...:342 of the volume. Dr Whewell's'third paper-is

entitled Remarks on Mr Hopkins's Reply to the previous Remarks

on Glacier Theories; it occupies pages 431..A33 of the volume.

Some copies of Dr Whewell's three papers were printed together

so as to form an octavo pamphlet of eight pages.    This paper
     52. Method of Measuring the Height of Clouds.

occurs on pages 15 and 16 of the Transactions cf the Sections in

the Report of the meeting of the British Association, held at

Southampton in 18446. A person observes the angle of elevation

of a cloud, and also the- angle of depression of the image of the

cloud seen in a lake; the latter angle is rather greater than the

former: the height of the eye above the level of the lake is also

supposed known. Then the height of the cloud can be deter--

mined by a simple Trigonometrical formula.

     53. On the Wave of Translation in connexion with the North
ern Drift. This paper occupies pages 227...232 of the Quarterly

Journal of the Geological Society for August, 1847; it begins
thus : " The great geological problem of the ` Northern Drift' has

been attacked- in various ways ; and the diffusion of Scandinavian

rocks and northern detritus over a vast area in the northern part

of Europe has been ascribed to various kinds of natural machinery.

Of late a large part of this operation has been attributed to

`Waves of Translation' produced by the sudden upheaval of

the bottom or shore of the sea. This view is advocated in the

`Geology of Russia' by Sir Roderick Murchison. There are some

very simple numerical calculations which belong to this subject,

and which may throw some light on the probability of such a

theory. These calculations must necessarily be hypothetical as

to their quantities, but as to their quantities only: and even

these will be capable of correction by a more careful survey of

the facts." The calculation involves only simple mechanical

principles; the conclusion  is is,  that "450 cubic miles of water

raised a mile high would produce an effect equivalent to the

dispersion of the whole body of northern drift." And moreover

" no action except such as          of a paroxysmal character could

produce the effect."

54. Researches on the Tides. Thirteenth Series. On the

             ANTITHESIS or PHILOSOPHY.    317

Tides of the Pacific, and on the Diurnal Inequality. Philosophical

Transactions, 1848.

     55. On the Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy. This
memoir occupies pages 170...181 of Vol. VIII of the Cambridge

Philosophical Transactions; it was read on February 5, 1844.
The doctrine of this memoir plays an important part in the

Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, and may be described as
the basis of that work: see the Preface to the second edition.

The memoir was reprinted in the Appendix to the second edition,

and subsequently in the Appendix to the Philosophy of Discovery.
In a letter to Mr Jones Dr Whewell refers to paragraph 29 of

J.the memoir as an answer to the main argument of Mr S. Mill

against his doctrine. On pages 614...620 of the same volume of

the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions we have a Second

Memoir on the Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy; this was

read on November 13, 1848. The substance of the memoir is

reproduced in Chapter XXIV of the Philosophy of Discovery; see
the note on page 300 of that work. There are two mistakes in

that note; instead of 1840 read 1849; and omit the words "and
Ithe next."
             have already said on page 188 that this memoir

contains, in the form of a suggestion, an anticipation of the main

position of the Essay on the Plurality of Worlds, namely, that

man is the principal object of creation.

56. Of the Intrinsic Equation of a Curve and its Application.

Second Memoir on the Intrinsic Equation of a Curve and its

application. The first of these memoirs occupies pages 659...671

of Vol. VIII of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was

read on February 12, 1849. The second occupies pages 150...156
of Vol. IX of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was

read on April 15, 1850. The intrinsic equation to a curve is an

equation connecting the length of the are between a fixed and a

variable point with the angle between the tangents to the curve

at the two points. Dr Whewell introduced the subject to the

notice of mathematicians in these two memoirs which are illus

trated by numerous figures. The subject has since passed into

the elementary text-books used at Cambridge.
     57. On Hegel's Criticism of Newton's Principia. This memoir

318 COLOURED FRINGES.

occupies pages 697...706 of Vol. VIII of the Cambridge Philoso
phical Transactions; it was read on May 21, 1849. Hegel depre
ciated Newton in comparison with Kepler; but, as Dr Whewell

shews, Hegel did not understand the subject sufiiciently to render

his opinion of any value. The memoir is a model of temperate

Iand decisive criticism. As have already said on page 135 Coleridge

is as much to blame as Hegel in the matter. The memoir is

reproduced in the Appendix to the Philosophy of Discovery.
     58. Researches on the Tides. Fourteenth Series. On the

Results of continued Tide Observations at several places on the

British Coasts. Philosophical Transactions, 1850.

59. On our Ignorance of the Tides. This paper occurs on

pages 27 and 28 of the Transactions of the Sections in the Report
of the Meeting of the British Association held at Ipswich in 1851.

The object of the paper is to point out those coasts on the surface

of the globe along which observations of tides had not yet been
made: these coasts consisted generally of all except those of

Europe, of the eastern side of North America, and of the eastern
Iside of Australia.
                     may mention also that on pages 134 and 135

of the Report of the meeting held at Oxford in 1847, there is a

report drawn up by Dr Whewell and Sir J. C. Ross, recommending

an expedition for the purpose of completing our knowledge of the

Tides. Also on page 28 of the Transactions of the Sections in the
Report of the Meeting held at Liverpool in 1854 there are some
remarks entitled On Mr Superintendent Bache's Tide Observa

tions: the remarks point out that much is still unknown as

to the Tides.

     60. On a new kind of coloured Fringes. This paper occurs on
pages 336 and 337 of the Philosophical Magazine for April, 1851 ;
it is also in the Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical

Society for November 11, 1850. Dr Whewell had observed these

fringes many years previously, and communicated an account of

them to M. Quetelet. Recently attention had been drawn to
them by M. Mousson of Zurich. The fringes have since been

discussed on the principles of the Undulatory Theory by Professor

Stokes in a memoir published in Volume Ix of the Cambridge

Philosophical Transactions.

                   POLITICAL ECONOMY.                319

61. Criticism of Aristotle's Account of Induction. This

memoir occupies pages 63...72 of Vol. IX of the Cambridge

Philosophical Transactions; it was read on February 11, 1850.

A passage in Aristotle is translated and explained, some emenda

.tions being made for the purpose of rendering it intelligible and
consistent. Dr Whewell in sending a copy of it to Dr Meyer,
said, "The paper had its origin in a discussion between Mr Hallam

and me, and has excited a good deal of interest among our scholars

here." Mr Hallam's letter which led to the memoir is preserved,

and also that in which he acknowledged the receipt of it. A

distinguished Member of the University printed a paper on the

Isubject, in which, think, he controverted some of Dr Whewell's
Iviews; but have not seen the paper. Dr Whewell's memoir is

reproduced in the Appendix to the Philosophy of Discovery.

     62. Mathematical Exposition of some. Doctrines of Political

Economy. This memoir occupies pages 128...149 of Vol. Ix of

the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read on April 15,

1850. The language of Algebra is here applied to questions

which relate to the connection of demand, supply, and price,

whether in the same country, or in different countries. The
principles assumed are those of Mr J. S. Mill. Dr Whewell says
Itowards the end: "In the preceding investigations,
                                                     have done

little more than put into a general and algebraical form the

reasonings which Mr Mill has presented to his readers in nume
Irical examples."
                   have ventured to speak highly of Dr Whewell's

other memoirs in connection with Political Economy, and the

present is still more interesting, and well deserves the attention

of those who are devoted to the subject. A person in Dr Whewell's

position, however, might have found very easily an accurate

and intelligent friend who would have read the memoir in

proof before it was finally struck off; some very troublesome

misprints might then have been corrected, and the reasoning in
some places rendered more clear and convincing. Dr Whewell
himself attached much importance to this memoir. In a letter
to Mr Jones he says, " But the paper really does contain a refuta
tion of certain vaunted theorems of John S. Mill on international

trade; and shows them to be true, even on their mathematical

 320 TRANSFORMATION OF HYPOTHESES.

assumptions, within very narrow limits." In a later part of the

 same volume of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions we
 have a memoir entitled llIathematical Exposition of Certain Doc

trines of Political Economy. Third memoir. It occupies seven

 pages; it was read on November 11, 1850. The numbering of
 the articles is continued from the former memoir in the same

 volume. The special point considered is the efi`ect of the import
 of the precious metals.

      63. On the Transformation of Hypotheses in the History of
 Science. This memoir occupies pages [139]...[147] of Vol. IX of
the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read on
 May 19, 1851. The memoir is very interesting; it maintains
the following proposition: "When a prevalent theory is found

to be untenable, and consequently is succeeded by a different,
or even by an opposite one, the change is not made suddenly, or
completed at once, at least in the minds of the most tenacious
adherents of the earlier doctrine ; but is effected by a transforma
tion, or series of transformations, of the earlier hypothesis, by
means of which it is gradually brought nearer and nearer to
the second." This is illustrated in the case of the Cartesian

hypothesis of vortices and the Newtonian doctrine of universal
gravitation, and more briefly with respect to Magnetism, and to
Theories of Light. The memoir is reproduced in the Appendix

to the Philosophy of Discovery.
      64. On Plato's Survey of the Sciences. This memoir occupies

pages 582...589 of Vol. IX of the Cambridge Philosophical Trans

actions; it was read on April 23, 1855. It is reproduced in the

Appendix to the Philosophy of Discovery ; and also nearly entirely
in pages 303...318 of Vol. III of the Platonic Dialogues for English
Readers. In the same volume of the Cambridge Philosophical

Transactions there are two other memoirs, also reproduced in

the Philosophy of Discovery, namely, one on Plato's Notion of

Dialectic, and one on the Intellectual Powers according to Plato.
The former occupies pages 590...597, and was read on May 7,
1855; the latter occupies pages 598...604:, and was read on

November 12, 1855. In the former Dr Whewell considers the

Sophista to be not by Plato, but by some Eleatic opponent;

REPORTS ON MEMOIRS.  321

Professor Thompson maintained the genuineness of the Sophista

in a memoir which occupies pages 146...165 of Vol. x of the
Cambridge Philosophical Transactions. A memoir by Dr Whewell

on the Platonic Theory of Ideas occupies pages 94...1O44 of Vol. X
of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions; it was read on

November 10, 1856, and is reproduced in the Appendix to the

Philosophy of Discovery. The memoir relates mainly to the
Parmenides, which Dr Whewell holds is not by Plato. Professor

Jowett maintains the genuineness of the dialogue; he mentions
JUeberweg as being of the contrary opinion: see owett's Plato,

Vol. III, page 227.
     After the list of Dr Whewell's own memoirs in the Royal

Society Catalogue of Scientific Papers, a Report is mentioned

drawn up by him and J. W. Lubbock. The Report occupies

pages 108...113 of the third volume of the Proceedings of the
Royal Society; it was read to the Society on March 29, 1832.

The Report relates to a memoir by Professor Airy, On an In
equality of long period in the Motions of the Earth and Venus; it

furnishes an account of the memoir, which it compares with the

investigations on the great inequality of Jupiter and Saturn, as

originally given by Laplace, The Report, as might be expected,
is adapted only for such readers as are well acquainted with
Physical Astronomy. From the papers preserved by Dr Whewell
it appears that much correspondence took place between himself

and his colleague with respect to the important memoir which

was referred to their consideration.

      On pages 121 and 122 of the same volume of Proceedings
there is a Report on_ Mr Lubbock's Researches in Physical
Astronomy, by Messrs Whewell, Peacock, and Coddington. There
is evidence that Dr Whewell on various other occasions took part
 in reporting on papers submitted to the Royal Society; but
for a long period the custom of printing such reports has been

abandoned.

     In addition to the scientific memoirs which have been noticed,
it should be mentioned that in the Index to the Reports of the
British Association from 1831 to 1860 the name of Dr Whewell

sometimes occurs in connexion with Reports where he was one of

         w. , 21

322  REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.

a committee and signed in conjunction with the rest. These
formal productions are not recorded in the Royal Society's Cata
logue of Scientific Papers, and it does not appear necessary to

Idraw attention to them, especially as think from examining

them that they were not written by Dr Whewell.

                   CHAPTER XVI I.

                                        snnmons

I SHALL give in this Chapter notices of Dr Whewell's sermons,

mainly of those which he published, though at the beginning and

Iat the end of the Chapter shall speak of some which exist only

in manuscript.

    In 1827 he preached a course of four sermons in the University

Church at Cambridge, on February 4th, 11th, 18th and 25th;
these sermons, with various rough drafts connected with them, are
preserved among his papers. The texts are Isaiah xxxiii. 6,

Romans i. 20, Proverbs iii. 5 and 6, and Job xxxvi. 3. The

subject may be said to be the Relation of Human Knowledge to
Divine. The sermons seem to have attracted great attention
when they were delivered, and a few extracts from them may
find an appropriate place here.

      Towards the end of the first sermon he notices an opinion
" that that which has a right to be believed, has also the power
of instantly and by its mere application compelling belief ;" and
then he proceeds thus: "Nor, though this opinion be to the
greater part,-both of divine things and of human, most certainly
inapplicable, is it perhaps much to be wondered that it should
possess the minds of many who have been busy with the know
ledge of modern times. For the entire tendency of the most
admired labours of the reasoners of these later days has been so to
exhibit our knowledge, that it should consist in part of a chain
of deductions, compelling men's belief by the inevitable force of
demonstration, and, for the remainder, of certain facts also com
pelling men's assent by the irresistible evidence of sense :--and in
giving to what they teach this form on which more truly and

                                                                                        21--2

324 NEWTON AND BACON.

peculiarly the name of science is bestowed, they have wrought
with surpassing success, and have won high, and so far, deserved,
honour. And in so many of the chambers of human learning has
this bright and shining light been set up, that it is little to be

marvelled if men refuse to enter those apartments which are not

so illuminated, and hardly believe us when we tell them of the
treasures which are there contained--if they draw back, even

with averseness and mistrust, from a dimness which to their eyes,

 used to that new and blinding light, seems utter and hopeless

darkness.

   I"The time would fail me if should endeavour to show here,

how unwise and inconsistent it   to expect that all substantial
           I
and enduring truth may be, and should be, conformed to that
                            a is,
type which has been best approved for the physical sciences.
But there be any who incline, on that account, to slight or turn
from divine truths, them would for an instant remind, that this
is

    if
    not a disposition which grows, naturally or invariably, with the
growth of the powers and views of philosophical mind'; but thatI
the most capacious intellects of the Christian times have found
room for the love of knowledge without expelling the love of God.
Especially would point to the two names, by the consent of all,
the greatest in the records of this modern philosophy. These
were men who have often walked in the courts of this our Zion,

and sat within these very walls; and these have left us no uncer
tain or feeble testimonial of the devout humility with which they
bowed themselves to the Lord whom we serve in this his temple.
These, the great Conqueror and the great Legislator in the realms
of science, rebelled not against their Maker. To the former was
given to carry the excursion of man's intellect through the vast
spaces of the material universe--and of his reverent and childlike
piety, of his patient searching of the Scriptures, all men know.
And we turn to the pages of the other, who traced ordinances
for our philosophy almost before its birth, will seem as he
wished to protest with his mighty and eloquent voice to all ages
against any who should make of the doctrines which he taught,
a pretext for perverting or rejecting the teaching of a higher
wisdom. Such expressions of piety as the following seemed to
if
                                                        it
                                                                  if it

                      THE FUTURE STATE.                                          325

   him fitting for the contemplative reason; and this is the language
   in which among many other devotional exercises he clothes a

   prayer, which he terms the Student's Prayer." Then follows the

   first of the two prayers which are reproduced in the Philosophy
   of the Inductive Sciences, 2nd edition, Vol. II, page 251.

        The following is the conclusion of the second sermon: "But

   we may look still further--our prospects end not here. There
   will come a time when our views and perceptions will no longer be

   limited to} that which can be received through the inlets of this

   perishable frame, or attained by a soul laden with such a weight.

   We may hope--through Him who is our hope--to be admitted,

   when this fleeting world shall have passed away, to the presence
   of God: to behold Him as He and to see and know, will not
                                             is,
                                                            is

                                                                      it its is

                                                                    I
`  say, even as   he  knows, but far beyond    all that given to the
   wisest of men  on                            true, that as repentance
                      this side of heaven. It

   and faith and holiness here are the conditions of this blessedness,

   so adoration, and the joy of gratitude will form  essence there.
                                                     be that all our
   It not Knowledge but Love. Yet' how should
   if is

                  is
   powers and faculties should not there be purified and elevated:

   and even the earthlier and lower ministry of the senses of this
   mortal body not judged unworthy to describe and prefigure that

   happiness, how should be that the gratifications of the intellect
                      it

   Ifmay not mingle in it.  the songs and harpings, the sapphire

   and gold of the eternal city are presented to our imagination,

   may we not well believe that our purged understanding will drink

   in new knowledge of God's ways from the waters which flow
   round that throne What begun here will be perfected there, of
                      :
                             ?

                                         is
   Wisdom as well as of Holiness. There abides the fulness of our

   widening views and we may cheer ourselves in this our pilgrimage

   with the thought that all which seems now dark and perplexed
   and discordant, will then be resolved into joy and harmony--that

   all obstacles which impede our purer and brighter prospects                   of
   God's creation and dispensation will melt and disappear, when

   there shall be granted, not only that `unlocking of the gates of

   sense, and kindling of greater natural light' of which that truly
                      a

   wise man spake, but when the eternal portals of Time and Space

   shall be. unbarred, and there shall flow in, in glory unutterable,

326 PLURALITY OF WORLDS.

the Power and the Majesty, the Wisdom and the Goodness, the

creating and redeeming Love, of the everlasting and infinite

Godhead."

From the third sermon, a passage may be taken which can

be compared with the preacher's later views in his Essay on the
Plurality of Worlds: "That the earth which man inhabits is one

among a multitude of worlds which roll on their appointed paths
in the populous universe, at intervals which it exhausts the imagi

nation to span--with resemblances and subordinations among

them suggesting a possibility at least that other wandering spheres

besides our own may bear with them their crowds of sentient,
and for aught we know, responsible beings--these are not the

reveries of idle dreamers or busy contrivers;--but, for the main

part, truths collected by wise' and patient men on evidence in

disputable, from unwearied observation and thought; and for the
rest, founded upon analogies which most will allow to reach at

least to some degree of probability. Now it may be natural that

a believer who had been accustomed to fix his thoughts on the

relation between God and man, would, upon thus learning as it

were the population of the whole universe let in upon him as

joint claimants of God's notice and objects of his care, feel, so to
speak, alarmed and dispirited; as if it were too much to expect

that his preservation and redemption and sanctification should

occupy the mind which is charged with the care of ten thousand

worlds and systems. Going further in knowledge than David

went, he might go further in despondency. `Lord what is man?'
`Art thou careful of him?' `Dost thou regard him ?' And yet
if this thought be entertained in trust and hope till our worthier
notions of Almighty God rise to the level of our knowledge, all

cause will disappear for doubting or for less depending on, His
parental care and kindness. What if we had in our thoughts for

a time brought down the perfect-ions of the Godhead to the

measure of our own conceptions?  What if we had in our

imaginations limited the moral dealings of the Almighty to our

own species ?---perhaps even forgetting all that is revealed or

hint-ed in scripture of other races of spirits whose God and Master

He also is--0r what if we had supposed His providence and

           ARGUMENT FROM GEOLOGY.         327

goodness confined to those living things of which we know 2 Shall
we, when this our self-devisedimagination is broken in upon
and disfigured, refuse all returning comfort from wider and wiser
thoughts of Him? Does not even science herself compel us to

expand our notions of God's vivifying and cherishing care, when
she unlocks to us the world of things, from their smallness before
unseen, and shews us the myriads of animals that live in the blade

of grass or in the drop of water? As if we were not everywhere
and by all things taught, that however far we follow in our minds
His greatness, His wisdom, His preserving goodness, we come but
in sight of the need we have to think of its extending immeasur
ably further still. As if we would forget too that with Him, all

worlds and all the inhabitants of worlds, of whatever order and

nature, are not Objects of perception only, but instruments of
action----that He is the principle of their being, the breath of their
lives, and that in His will are the laws by which their existence

proceeds.

    "Hastin and imperfectly we pass over this portion of our

subject--a. matter already touched by other hands than ours.

But there is another Of the departments of modern knowledge to

which, with reference to its bearing on the scriptures, men's

minds seem, mainly perhaps because it possesses more of novelty,
more actively and anxiously to turn. Let us suppose it possible

that as we have in the heavens proofs of other and distant worlds

different from our own, so we should have on earth proofs of the

former existence of tribes of brute animals different from those

which now people its surface. Let us suppose such races to have

been destroyed, and other generations, more than once, to have

succeeded them, before man was placed here as the subject of God.
Let us suppose the evidence of provinces of God's creation thus

separated from us in time, to be no less convincing than the

demonstration which  all  allow us to have of other provinces of
IfHis empire separated from us in space.
                                          to any there seem

aught rash and unhallowed in the boldness of such suppositions,

let them reflect, that to others, sober and pious men, these seem

inferences undeniable from what they everywhere see. And let

us consider whether here also, as in that other case, aught Of

328 END or THE WORLD.

repugnance and alarm which some good men may feel, arise not
from our clinging rather to assumptions and interpretations of our
own than to the real content of the revealed word."

     The following passage occurs near the end of "the third sermon :

"Let us not deceive ourselves. Indefinite duration and gradual

decay are not the destiny of this universe. It will not find its

termination only in the imperceptible crumbling of its materials

or clogging of its wheels. It steals not calmly and slowly to its

end. No ages of long and deepening twilight shall gradually bring
the last setting of the sun--no mountains sinking under the
decrepitude of years, or weary rivers ceasing to rejoice in their
courses, shall prepare men for the abolition of this earth. No
placid mathanasia shall silently lead on the dissolution of the natural
world. But the trumpet shall sound--the struggle shall come--
this goodly frame of things shall be rent and crushed by the

mighty arm of its Omnipotent Maker. It shall expirean the throes

and agonies of some sudden and fierce convulsion; and the same
hand which plucked the elements from the dark and troubled
slumbers of their chaos, shall cast them into their tomb, pushing
them aside that they may no longer stand between His face and
the creatures whom He shall come to judge."

     Dr Whewell preached for the last time on Feb. 11, 1866, in

his College Chapel. On this occasion he introduced the above

passage substantially though not literally, beginning with the
words no mountains. Probably it was supplied by memory and
not copied from what had been written nearly forty years before.

     The following is the commencement of the fourth sermon:
"The book of Job, a work most remarkable on many accounts,
invites our notice particularly here by its reference to the train
of thought which in the present series of discourses we have
attempted, however imperfectly, to excite. This reference indeed,
it may be, is discerned dimly and unsteadily through the long
and deepening shade of so many intervening ages, removed from us
by almost the whole extent of human traditions, and by habits
of life and manners far different from any thing with which
we are familiar; yet still may it be perceived and traced by
an attentive eye. And this book comes down to us, freighted

BEAUTY OF CREATION.  329

apparently with no small portion of the knowledge of that early
age; speaking to us not merely of flocks and herds, of wine and
Oil, of writings and judgments ;--but telling us also of ores and
metals drawn from the recesses of the mountains ;--of gems and
jewels of many names and from various countries ;--of constellations
and their risings and seasons and influences. And above all it

comes tinged with a deep and contemplative spirit of observation
of the wonders of the animate and inanimate creation. The rain

and the dew, the ice and the boar frost, the lightning and the

tempest, are noted as containing mysteries past man's finding out.
Our awe and admiration are demanded for the care that provides
for the lion and the ostrich after their natures; for the spirit that
informs with fire and vigour the war-horse and the eagle ; for the
power that guides the huge behemoth and leviathan."

      The following passage from the same sermon may be compared
with section 30 of the chapter on The Argument from Design in
the Essay on the Plurality Of Worlds: "But again. Not only
these connexions and transitions, but the copiousness with which
properties, as to us it seems, merely ornamental, are diffused
through the creation, may well excite our wonder. Almost all
have felt, as it were, a perplexity, chastened by the sense of
beauty, when they have thought of the myriads of fair and
gorgeous objects, that exist and perish without any eye to witness
their glories--the flowers that are born to blush unseen in the
wilderness--the gems, so wondrously fashioned, that stud the
untrodden caverns--the living things with adornments of yet
richer workmanship that, solitary and unknown, glitter and die.

Nor is science without food for such feelings. At every step she

discloses things and laws pregnant with unobtrusive splendour.
She has unravelledcthe web of light in which all things are
involved, and has found its texture even more wonderful and
exquisite than she could have thought. This she has done in our
own days--and these admirable properties the sunbeams had borne
about with them since light was created, contented as it were, with
their unseen glories. What then shall we say? These forms,
these appearances of pervading beauty, though we know not their
end and meaning, still touch all thoughtful minds with a sense of

330 ERRORS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY.

hidden delight, a still and grateful admiration. They come over
our meditations like strains and snatches of a sweet and distant

symphony--sweet indeed but to us distant, and broken, and
overpowered by the din of more earthly perceptions--caught but
at intervals--eluding our attempts to learn it as a whole, but ever
and anon returning on our ears, and elevating our thoughts of the
fabric of this world. We might indeed well believe that this har
mony breathes not for us alone--that it has nearer listeners--more
delighted auditors. But even in us it raises no unworthy thoughts
.---even in us'it impresses a conviction, indestructible by harsher
voices, that far beyond all that we can now know and conceive
the universe is full of symmetry and order and beauty and life."
One sentence of the above passage may recall to some hearers a
favourite expression of one of the most eminent of living scientific

lecturers--"Newton unravelled the texture of the solar light."
      Besides the four sermons delivered before the University in

IFebruary, 1827, a fifth was prepared, but think not delivered.

 The text is from James iii. 13. The design was bold, namely,
 to reprehend what the writer maintained to be errors of some of
the political economists of the period. Dr Whewell sent an out
 line or a draft of the proposed sermon to his friend Mr Jones,
 whom he always acknowledged as his guide in political economy;
 Mr Jones seems to have feared that the sermon would amount to

 a premature disclosure of some of the views which he was himself
 preparing for publication, and Dr Whewell then probably gave up
'his idea of preaching it. The following passage will shew one of

.the principal topics which the sermon proposed to discuss: "It

 has, for instance, been maintained, and this doctrine has produced
 and does still produce a powerful impression and manifest tend
 ency in the speculations of those who "even now reason con
 cerning the laws which regulate the prosperity and riches of
 human societies, that the fiat of His will by which the Creator
 ordained the increase and multiplication of men, impelled them
 in a career leading by a course not to be stopped or deflected,

 to want and degradation, to vice and misery. It has been passed

 from pen to pen and from lip to lip as a great discovery, that the
 tendency of mankind to replenish the earth ever pushes them on

ALLUSION TO MR JONES.         331

till the sharp discipline of pain, the iron hand of want and its

deadly concomitant crime, drive them back or at least forbid their

further progress. That 'whenever the large bounty of nature opens

some new supply, pours out some new store of nutriment, this .

fierce and indomitable property of human societies springs forth

instantly upon the offered food and devours it with wolfish ra

pidity, leaving the spot that seemed thus enriched as bare and

hungry as it had been. That thus the more depressed of the

orders of mankind, those portions of society that win their bread

by the labour of their hands and eat it in the sweat of their

brows, are destined to eternal and irredeemable degradation--

fated to increase in numbers as the fruits of the earth allow of

their increase, and as it were condemned to become more nume

rous lest they should become more happy. That this, or some

thing like this, is the representation often given of the necessary

course of states and nations by those who most loudly call our

attention to their success in speculation most will recognize and

know. That the proclamation of such a doctrine, represented as

a demonstrated truth and the fruitful source of many truths be

sides, shook'and startled the minds of pious and benevolent men,
and seemed like an oppressive and disquieting thought forced in

among their belief and trust in ,God's goodness, like a funereal

and menacing light thrown upon the fair face of nature, many

who hear in mind the youth and first appearance of these doc

vtrines and their operation on the minds of men, will still recollect."

  JThe mode in which the preacher would have handled the

subject may be seen by consulting the Preface to Mr ones's work

on Rent. It may be well supposed that allusion is made to
Mr Jones in the following words which occur early in the sermon :

"To point, with a brief and general indication at some of the

forms of error, its causes and the grounds of its refutation is here

all that is permissible--all that is required. To other times, to

other hands must be left the labour and the honour, the precious

and blessed labour, the high and enduring honour, of combating in

particulars those errors from which foolish and unhappy men have

drawn or may draw inferences which darken the face of moral
                           I
nature and divine truth."

332 TRINITY HOUSE sEaMON..                                             In.

   I now proceed to Sermons which are in print.

    A Sermon preached on Trinity Monday, June 15, 1835, before
the Corporation Of the Trinity House, in the Parish Church of
Saint Nicholas, Deptford, and printed at their request. By the
Rev. William Whewell, M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge. London:

printed by Charles Whittingham, 1835. This is in quarto,
and consists of 21 pages. The sermon is dedicated to the Elder
Brethren of the Trinity House, three of whom are named, the
king William the Fourth, the Marquess Camden, and John
Henry Pelly, Esquire. The preacher had been appointed by the

Marquess Camden, at that time Chancellor of the University.
The text is John vi. 21. The sermon has been much and justly

admired. Professor Selwyn, preaching before the University on
the occasion of the death of Dr Whewell, alluded to it in these .

words: "...read the Master of Trinity's noble sermon before the
corporation of the Trinity House in 1835, and you will rise up
with a better feeling of what Englishmen ought to be." The
Professor, whose loss the University has to lament just as this
sheet is sent to press, told me that being unable to procure a
copy of Dr Whewell's sermon in any other way, he transcribed

the whole of it himself. A passage may be quoted, the last sen
tence of which gives the prevalent idea of the sermon: " Life in

the Christian's eyes is the seed of immortality: shall we allow
this precious gem to be crushed or squandered while it is perhaps
immature for the change? The heathen indeed might feel, that
it was sweet to stand in security on the shore of the stormy
ocean, and to witness the ruin of the sinking mariner; but the
Christian's first impulse would be, `save him, he is my brother.'
No depreciating estimate of this man's value to others, no alien

ating considerations of difference of race or nation, would oblite

rate this spontaneous and overpowering sentiment. To provide
all that can be provided, for the safety and comfort of those who
go down to the sea in ships, and occupy in the great waters, may
be desirable on account of private or public gain; may be dictated

by prudence or by policy: but, it is a duty before it is a profit; it

is commanded by benevolence before it is commended by reason

ing; and before policy and prudence have made their calculations,

CHRISTIAN ARCHITECTURE.  333

 and brought out their result, Christian love is already stretching
 forth her torch to light the beacon, and lifting her voice to pro

 claim the dangers of the shore."

      Four sermons on the Foundations of Morals were preached
 before the University in November 1847, and published shortly
 afterwards: they have been already noticed in connexion with the

 other works relating to Moral Philosophy.

     The Christian's duty towards Transgressors. A sermon preached

 in the chapel of the Philanthropic Society, St George's Fields, on
 Sunday, May 16, 1847, being the annual commemoration of the
 Society's Establishment. By the Rev. William Whewell, D.D.,
 Master of Trinity College, and Professor of Moral Philosophy, in
 the University of Cambridge. Printed by permission for distri
 bution among the friends of the Institution. This is in 27 octavo
 pages. The text is Ephesians iv. 28. The title indicates the
 object of the sermon. A passage may be extracted which is
 characteristic of the author's style: "But yet, within the very

 circuit of the community so Christianized prevail vices and
 crimes, and incentives and preparations to crime, which were

 never surpassed in foulness and virulence by the vilest times and
 scenes of heathen depravity. Law utters her voice, Punishment

 waves her scourge in vain. The scourge of Punishment becomes
 as it were a schoolmaster's rod, under which unhappy creatures

 are taught to learn more and more completely the lesson of

 crime."

      The Bulwarks and Palaces of Zion: a sermon (preached at

 Wormenhall, near Oxford, Dec. 14, 1847, on the occasion of the

 re-opening of the church after its restoration) by the Rev.
 William Whewell, D.D., Master of Trinity College, Cambridge.
 Re-printed (by request) from the Church of England Magazine
 for May, 1848. London: printed by Joseph Rogerson, 24, Norfolk
 Street, Strand, 1848. This is in 19 small pages. The text is
 Psalm xlviii. 12, 13. The following extract recalls the author's
 researches in architecture: "The course of centuries is in this
vcountry marked in the various forms which were given to our

 sacred edifices, by the builder's art constantly struggling to
 produce something more beautiful, more adorned, more manifold,

334           COLLEGE CHAPEL SERMONS.

more gorgeous than what had preceded. The course of time in

our history is not more distinctly marked by the reigns of our

sovereigns, than it is by the successive modes of building and

adorning the houses of prayer, which we inherit from our ances

tors. The life-time of Christ's church in this nation has extended

through many, many revolutions of the national taste in building;
and the different types of the Christian sacred edifice are, as it
were, measuring points in the duration of our national Chris

tianity."  -                                                     .

     Sermons preached in the Chapel of Trinity College, Cambridge.
By William Whewell, D.D., Master of the College, 1847. This is

an octavo volume containing xii and 392 pages. It is dedicated

to the Reverend William Carus, M.A., Senior Dean of Trinity

College. There are in all 22 sermons; 19 of these had been
preached by Dr Whewell in the College Chapel, in virtue of his

office of Master. The other three had been preached by him as a

Fellow; these are the College Commemoration sermons for 1828

and 1838, which had already been printed, though not published ;

and a sermon called the College Student, published a few years
previously as one of the "Sermons by XXXIX Living Divines of
the Church of England." We read in the Preface, "The Second

and Third of the Sermons were composed when the preacher

entertained the intention of introducing into the Series of Dis

courses which he had to deliver, an exposition of the place and
Office of Religion in a State. This intention was, afterwards

abandoned." We see here additional evidence respecting a point
which appeared in examining Dr Whewell's writings on Moral

Philosophy, namely, that he was much perplexed with the difficult

problem of the relations between the Church and the State.

Without professing to draw attention to the contents of the

volume in detail, we may notice one or two particulars. The

ninth sermon, entitled Admiration of ltIen, is very striking; on
pages 270...274 we have, as in the author's writings on Moral

Philosophy, a vigorous opposition to the eXclusive claims of the
Romish Church; and on pages 321 and 392 we have the two '

prayers of Bacon which Dr Whewell so much admired. The Com
memoration Sermon for 1828 is in a more ornate style than the

THANKSGIVING SERMON.  335

   other sermons, which belong to a later period. Wordsworth, in a

  letter to the preacher, said of the sermon: "It is worthy Of the

 Ioccasion, though will take the liberty of saying that it opens

  rather inauspiciously, the first sentence being unusually cumbrous
  for so few words.

                                But where the subject rises proud to view,
                            With equal strength the Preacher rises too."

       In this sermon and the notes to it the author refers with just

  praise to the honourable manner in which the College was repre
  sented among the translators of the Bible into English; had he
  lived to the present day he would have enjoyed the satisfaction
   of seeing that, among the revisers of the authorized version, the
   College, so dear to him, had more than maintained its ancient

  fame. It would appear from the Commemoration Sermon of 1838,

  page 360, that at that time sermons were rarely delivered in
  Trinity College Chapel, and the preacher suggests the advantage
  that would follow if these were made a regular accompaniment of

   the services.

      A Sermon preached before the University of Cambridge on the
  day of the general thanksgiving, Nov. 15, 1849. By William

  Whewell, D.D., Master of Trinity College. Cambridge: printed at

  the University Press. J. Deighton, 1849. This is in 24 octavo

  pages. The text is Psalm civ. 29. The general thanksgiving

  was for the cessation of the cholera; the sermon also contains

  a reference to Dr French, Master of Jesus College, who died
  suddenly three days previously: it is dedicated to Dr Cartmell,

  the Vice-Chancellor. The following passage is from the first
  paragraph of the sermon: "We are as children, weak, ignorant,
  helpless ; but even by the light of nature we can see that we are

  His children; `so one of your own wise men has declared '--
  said St Paul to the Athenians; and doubtless the hearts of all the

  better natures among his hearers responded with reverent satis
' faction, when he added, to this text of natural reason, his noble

  comment, ` In Him we live and move and have our being.' They

  would recollect to have heard expressions of the like import--

  utterances of similar feelings--floating among the groves of
  Academus and echoing along the columns of the Portico, though,

336 THE DUTY or HUMILITY.

in that former time, not given forth with the power and authority

which belonged to him who then stood on the Areopagus."

    In the course of the sermon the preacher urges on his hearers
the duty of humility; he says: "This moral is on the surface of
the occasion, and surely it was not given to us till it was called
for. For have not men of late been prone to a temper 'of self

gratulation and self-admiration, for which a lesson of humility was

much needed? .... ..If our ancestors could see us, they would be

filled with admiration; they would look with comparative con
tempt, or with humbled vanity, on the scanty inheritance of

human power and human knowledge which was allowed to their
generation. Such sayings have been frequent among us. Perhaps,

even in their first aspect, not Wise sayings; for what can be wise
which involves so much of pride and self-applause? Perhaps
 not wise sayings: for is not this thought,--How much others

would admire us if they could see us,---rather the thought of a

vain child, arrayed in some new and gaudy vestment, than that of
a wise man who knows that spectators do not so easily transfer
their admiration from themselves to others ; and to whom it may

 occur, that our ancestors may have thought as much of what they
 did in their time, as we think of what we have done in ours ; and
 with equal reason :---to whom it may occur, also, that there have
 been ages in which the amount of manifest progress of man was
 far greater than it is in ours: for instance, the age of Columbus

 and Gutenburg, or the age of Luther and Galileo."

     Strength in Trouble. A sermon preached in the Chapel of

 Trinity College, Cambridge, February 23, 1851. By William
 Whewell, D.D., Master of the College. Printed by Request.

 London: John W. Parker, West Strand. Cambridge: J. Deighton,

 1851. This is in 24 octavo pages. The text is Isaiah xxx, part

 of the 15th verse: In quietness and in confidence shall be your

 strength. The trouble to which the sermon relates is the theo

 logical dissension of the time, connected with the Gorham contro

 versy. In the course of the sermon the desire of the Israelites in

 some of their difficulties to go back again to Egypt suggests the
 parallel of the wish of some perplexed members of the Church of
 England to seek refuge in Rome : " We have thus come forth out

THE ENGLISH REFORMATION.  337

of the land of Egypt, by God's, blessing, once and for ever. Who
would return thither? Who would tread back the steps of our

Exodus? Even if at times we are vexed with contentions and

struggles, with doubters and gainsayers, with obstinate question
ings, it may be, beyond our power to answer; with the weakness
of authority which naturally grows up among those who are, above

all things, jealous for freedom ;--even if such evils at times assail

us, who would seek to escape them by returning back to slavery?
by again submitting ourselves to a human authority which silences
all questionings and decides all controversy by its own absolute
sentence? Yet such a disposition may sometimes be discerned
among us, amid the whirl of opinions on matters of religious
concern. Men, impatient to know more than God has taught
in His Scripture, would rush back to the teaching of men who
assume the place of God. Men, offended at the conflict Of opinions
which they see going on around them, would fain have among
them an infallible judge of controversies. Men, dissatisfied with

the simplicity of the means by which in our common worship we
endeavour to raise ourhearts to God, desire to behold again

Egyptian pomp and splendour. Men, disturbed at some of the
circumstances of the Exodus by which we were brought to our

present condition, are ready to speak evil of that great and blessed
event in our history." With all his reverence for Law and Order

Dr Whewell had an abiding detestation of slavery, bodily, mental

and spiritual; and he would have been as unwilling to recognize

papal supremacy as his great predecessors Barrow and Bentley.
His unpublished sermons of this date contain numerous exhorta
tions to the maintenance of Christian freedom; he cautions his
hearers against " all weariness of the use of our own reason which
makes some yearn for the guidance of an authority which claims
to be infallible; all impatience of the seemingly imperfect organi--
zation of our church, which makes men ready to bow before the

gigantic golden image erected on the ruins of ancient Rome."
     And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself;

even as He is pure. A Sermon preached in the Chapel of Trinity
College, Cambridge, February 3, 1856. By the Rev. W. Whewell,

D.D., Master of the College. Cambridge: printed at the University

        w. 22

338 FUNERAL SERMON.

Press, .1856. This is in 16 small pages. The text consists of the

words given in the title, taken from 1 John iii. 3. The sermon

was preached very soon after the death of Mrs Whewell, and is

especially noticed in Mr W. G. Clark's memoir of Dr Whewell. The

short sentences which form the first two pages tell plainly of the

emotion with which the writer engaged in his task; though as he

proceeds it is obvious that the discharge of his duty becomes a

relief to his deep feelings. After speaking of the purification to

which the text refers, the preacher continues thus: "Those who

seek heaven, cherish such tempers as these. And if we sec

persons cherishing such tempers as these, and growing in them

more and more, we cannot doubt that they are on the road to

heaven. Their heaven seems almost begun, even here on earth:

and when their earthly tabernacle is dissolved, and they are

translated to the region of Departed Souls :--when the bodily

frame which was interposed between the Soul and the presence of

the Saviour, is interposed no longer ;--the change must be, as if we

had been living in a region of light and of glorious sunshine, but

immured in a close but or prison-house which admitted only a few

rays through its chinks ;---and as;          by some mighty blast from

above, awful and agonizing for the moment, but yet gracious inif,

its purpose and effect, the earthly hovel were blown down and

carried away; and the happy Tenant of left rejoicing in the
                                             if it
new-found glow of- the celestial light, by which, though dimly
                                                        a
seen, she had been so long in truth entirely surrounded."

Then follows an application to establish, proof were needed,

the fact of "an hereafter for the Souls of men," namely, that we

cannot suppose the soul to have passed through long course of

development only to sink into nothingness. The consideration
                                                               a
                                                                       is
urged with great impressiveness and as the author said in sub

sequent work forms an important and weighty line of argument:
is
see the Platonic Dialogues for English Readers, Vol. page 439.1,
     it
On page 443 of the same volume an argument drawn from the

affections regarded as weak, namely, that "when those whom

we love die, we cannot believe the separation final;" and con

sistently with the opinion there no appeal to such an argument
                        is

in the present sermon.

PUBLIC sCHOOLs.                                                                  339

     On January 29, 1860, Dr Whewell preached a sermon' in
St Paul's Cathedral by the invitation of the Bishop of London,
now Archbishop of Canterbury. The text was Luke xviii, part of
the 8th verse; Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he

Ifind faith on the earth? From Dr \Vhewell's correspondence learn
Ithat this sermon was printed in the Clerical Journal, but have

not seen this and do not know whether it was taken from short
hand notes : Dr Whewell's own manuscript does not seem to have

been in the hands of a compositor. It is a noble sermon; the

preacher takes the opportunity of rebuking the national hardness
of character and indifference to the pain of others, especially as
manifested by our conduct in India. He indicates in unambiguous

language his fears that blame for some of this evil might attach
to our great public schools : "But among ourselves in those
schools where the sons of our families of the higher and middle

classes spend their boyhood, and which may therefore be regarded

as forming and exhibiting the best part of the national character,
Iwhat is the demeanour of the stronger to the weaker?
                                                       speak
Inot as of any special knowledge: but ask what are the pictures

of the life of our large schools which have been in recent years

it
                                                            ;
                                                                            it,
presented to us in books by those who were familiar with and

who most assuredly did not wish to vilify our national character?

Are there not such books, and not one merely, but several, which

represent the life of Englishmen in their boyhood at such institu

tions as a progress from the sufferings of the weak to the tyranny

of the strong?" The bishop's experience would render him a good

judge on the subject thus handled the preacher's correspondence

shews that was one on which he himself felt very deeply.

    A few words may be given to the manuscript sermons left by
Dr Whewell. It appears from his correspondence that he was never

very willing to preach, except in the course of his duty as Master

of the College, and this function of his office he discharged with

great satisfaction. Some of his manuscripts are undated, but in

the majority of cases the dates and places of delivery are carefully

recorded. There are few manuscript sermons before 1834, none

between 1834 and 1840, nine between 1841 and 1844, and none

between 1845 and 1847: many of the sermons delivered in these

                 22--2

340 DEATH OF MR HARE.

later years were inserted in the volume published in 1847.

From 1848 onwards there are three or four sermons for each year;

Imany of these are very interesting, superior, think, to those of

the printed volume, and it may be hoped that a selection from

them will be eventually published. The allusions to moral

philosophy are numerous and impressive. It is the opinion of

those who were familiar with his preaching that his delivery failed

to do justice to his matter, and this agrees with my recollection of

Ithe only sermon which myself heard, namely, that preached

before the University in 1849. The manuscripts of his later

sermons were obviously executed in a most rapid manner; an

appropriate number of leaves was taken; they were folded, and

then filled on both sides with such characters, that although intelli

gible to the careful scrutiny of one familiar with his style and

handwriting, it is a marvel that the preacher could have deciphered

Ithem with the readiness necessary for delivery.
       will extract a few sentences from some of these sermons:
' In a sermon preached on May 6, 1855, there is an allusion to
J.the recent death of Mr C. Hare. "Such an affection, the devout
IChristian of whom
                    speak, had  for the  seventeenth  Psalm, and
                                                                                       `
when this Psalm was read to him a few hours before his spirit

departed, he thanked those who had thus chosen the words of
Scripture which he so especially delighted in ..... .. With'these

sounds of glory ringing in his ears, our dear friend fell into that

sleep from which he was to wake in the likeness of Christ. His

deepest thoughts on the things which employed his mind, his

acute searching into man's nature and powers and actions, he had

been accustomed, in a spirit of humility, to call Guesses at Truth.

He is gone where he will no longer have guesses, but certainties:

---no longer dim glimpses as through a glass darkly, but full vision,

face to face :--here he knew in part, and he prophesied in part,

and therefore he guessed:  there he will know even as he is known,
                           on October 24, 1858, not long after his
and will guess no more."
    In a sermon preached

second marriage, there is an allusion to his own circumstances:
" The love of mother and father, Of sister and brother, and the ties

of friendship more tender than any to which accident or caprice

                  KNOWLEDGE or con.                     341

Icould give rise, are, am sure you all feel, more precious than any

other earthly possessions can ever be. If there be any who have by

some calamity been prevented from enjoying in their fulness the

sweetness of these relations, or who, having enjoyed them fully,

have had them taken away, such persons will still feel, not less than

others--perhaps will feel more keenly than others--how great these

blessings are. If there be any of us who having been for a time

deprived of these blessings of the united life of families have

afterwards had the precious possession given back to them ;--who,

after years of solitude and lonely sorrow, have been restored to

domestic companionship and to the enjoyment of habitual affec

Ition, they may well say, What shall render to the Lord for all

his benefits towards me? And as trust the case, most of
                               if,   is
you are in the full possession of the affection and confidence of theis
                                II
family circle to which you belong, be well assured that there noit

blessing of heaven for which greater gratitude due; and that  is

you may well exclaim What shall render to the Lord for all    is it

his benefits
         it
A sermon preached on Oct. 16, 1859, was obviously prompted
             1"I
by Mr Mansel's well known Bampton Lectures, which stronglyI

opposes: "As have said, my anxiety to warn you against this

doctrine, false as hold        to be in philosophy, does not arise
                      if
mainly from its bearing upon philosophy, but upon religion--not
                           it
because       makes Natural Theology impossible, but because
Ifmakes Revealed Theology equally impossible.
                                               we cannot know

anything about God, revelation in vain. We cannot have any--is

thing revealed to us     we have no power of seeing what
revealed. It
              is  of no use to take away the veil when we are

Ifblind.      in consequence of our defect of sight we cannot see

God at all by the sun of nature, we cannot see him by the light

ning of Sinai, nor by the fire of mount Carmel, nor by the star in
Ifthe East, nor by the rising sun of the resurrection.
                                                        we cannot

know God, to what purpose'l"        that the Scriptures, Old and
                             is
New, constantly exhort us to know Him, and represent to us the
                                it
knowledge of Him as the great purpose of man's life and the sole

ground of his eternal hopes

    A sermon preached on Feb. 16, 1862, speaks of the abolition of

342 DEATH OF MR ROMILLY.

West Indian slavery by the English nation in these terms: " For
though to put an end to this buying and selling of men, and this

holding of them in slavery, was a step which involved a vast

sacrifice of material wealth, the Nation resolved that nevertheless

it should be done. And it was done, and a loss of treasure repre

sented by many millions of golden coin, was cheerfully, eagerly
Iundergone.
             think} that those who write the histories of Nations,

   speaking as they ought to speak, in the most calm and unpre
' judiced manner, cannot hesitate to say, and they do not hesitate

to say, that this was the noblest national act of which history

contains a record." It may seem ungracious, but still it is just

to remark that the nation did not pay the twenty millions required

to effect the emancipation of the negroes; they raised the money

by loan, and thus threw the burden on posterity.

The following passage in a sermon preached on Oct. 23, 1864,

alludes to the death of Mr Romilly, a much esteemed member of

Trinity College : "Most of you probably will stay in this place but
a few short years, and will then be removed by your various lots

to other spheres of action. But some of you may continue to be

resident members of this community for many years, or it may be

for the whole of your lives. Such a lot may, at the present

moment, appear to you dreary and desolate, but it need not be so.

Such a lot is not at all inconsistent with the constant culture of

all kindly afi'ections, with an enduring enjoyment of literary

pleasures, and with a truly Christian spirit, enduring all things

and waiting calmly for the end in faith and hope. Such has been

the character and career of many who have spent their lives here

and died while still active members of our body. Such a one has

been removed from among us during the time that we have been

separated. To some of us known during the whole time of our

abode here, and always known as a kind and faithful friend,

always looking on the better and more cheerful side in every

character and in every event; 'to others known by his share in

the councils and action of this our body, and of the larger

academical body of which he was so long a valuable and diligent

officer: to many not belonging to our body known by his works

of love and charity--by aid rendered to the sick and needy, by

DEATH OF LADY AFFLECK.  343

  persevering and widely spread benevolence z--but wherever known,
  loved and respected, and seen by all to be of a truly Christian
  spirit."

      In a sermon preached on May 14, 1865, soon after the death
  of his second wife, there is obvious allusion to her: "When, for

  instance, we have for a long time enjoyed the blessing of intimate
  intercourse with a true servant of God and disciple of Jesus
  Christ :--one who habitually and constantly felt this service and
  discipleship :--0ne whose thoughts were in heaven as the only
  region where real things were to be found, and to whom prayer
  and praise were the natural and habitual expression of thought.--
  We may have admired and rejoiced in the spectacle of such
v habits--0f such a nature, or rather of a nature so transformed,
  elevated, and sanctified by the Divine Blessing. We may have
  seen day by day, the purity, the sweetness, the wisdom which
  dwelt in such a character and were displayed in a thousand
 incidents in the course of a daily life and conversation. We
  may have dwelt day by day upon the lessons which such a

 character offers to those who have the privilege of living near
 it."

      Dr Whewell's last sermon was preached in his College Chapel
 on Feb. 11, 1866, from the text Revelation i. 8. The following
 extract will shew what was the nature of the subject: "And,

 undoubtedly, there have been men who have busied themselves
 with these portions of human knowledge, who having discovered,
 as manifested by undoubted evidence, vast cycles of change suc
 ceeding each other, and occupying such vast intervals of time
 that our ordinary powers of conception and imagination are over
 whelmed with their magnitude, have been led to express an
 opinion that the spectacle of the universe suggested nothing
 but this beginningless and endless series of changes. Astronomy,
 the study of the stars in their courses, and especially the study
 of those stars which revolve round the sun and which we call
 planets, a study which dates from the earliest times of man's
 intellectual history, shews us them revolving to-day as they did
 six thousand years ago--as we may believe them to have re
 volved sixty thousand years ago. Hence, it has been said, rashly

344 LAM SERMON.

I think we shall soon be led to judge, here we see no trace of

a beginning,---no promise of an end. And of the changes which
can be discovered to have taken place in the history of the
earth in the course of past ages, as manifested in the materials of

its hills and mountains, and in the bones which men there dis
cover of the former inhabitants of the land and of the water, it

has been said, with a boldness borrowed from the elder study of
the heavens, it has been said, we see no trace of a beginning--no

promise of an end. A perpetual series of changes past is all
that we can discern. A perpetual series of like changes in future

is all that we can anticipate. Such reasoners would abolish the
terms Beginning and End. They would erase the Alpha and

Ithe Omega from the Alphabet of the Universe; and so would

deprive of meaning such passages'as that which have made
my text."

     Against these opinions Dr Whewell maintains that the fact

of a creation is really suggested by the teaching of history and
science; his arguments are in substance the same as he had

published in the Book on Palaetiology in the Philosophy of the

Inductive'Sciences. Then he proceeds to suggest that we must

judge in like manner of the end of the world: "In what way this

end may come, we can by no means by the light of nature
discern: whether by a gradual decay of the energy of natural

forces, or by some great catastrophe, such as many geologists
have thought they could trace the evidence of in the arrange
ment of the earth's materials. But the event, the end of the

world, must be out of the common order of the history of the

world. It is constantly spoken of by Christ and his Apostles

as an event which is to be sudden, violent, and overwhelming.

IAccording to that teaching it will not be a process of slow decay."

Then follows the passage which have mentioned on page 328,
and which is quoted by Dr Lightfoot in his funeral sermon upon
Dr Whewell.

CHAPTER XVIII.

NOTES ON BOOKS.

_ [I HAVE already alluded to three sets of manuscripts preserved
  among the papers of Dr Whewell, namely the collections made for

the Bridgewater Treatise and for the History and Philosophy Of

the Inductive Sciences, the lectures and discussions on Moral

Science, and the Sermons. Besides these there are others which

may be arranged in three sets, namely, Notes on Books read

Iincluding some very early essays on various subjects, Poetical
pieces, Miscellaneous Prose pieces.  shall publish extracts from

these three sets, taking in the present Chapter the first set. This

collection has been thus described by Mr W. G. Clark: "This

consists of a vast body of notes on the books which he read from

the year 1817 to 1830--books in almost all the languages in

Europe, histories of all countries, ancient and modern, treatises

on all sciences, moral and physical. Among the rest is an epitome

of Kant's `Kritik der reinen Vernnnft,' a work which exercised

Ia marked influence on all his speculations in mental philosophy."
   place the extracts in chronological order, beginning with some

which are undated, but almost certainly belonging to the years

1816 and 1817. In .this and the following two Chapters my

own remarks will be enclosed in square brackets, and all the rest

belongs to Dr Whewell]
      [Personal Identity]. Nothing is more absurd than to talk of

a person's identity, according to any imaginable criterion Of

identity, but most of all the criterion Of consciousness. Every

person must be conscious that he knows no persons so different

from each other as he knows himself to be from himself in another

situation. Alone and in company--making himself master of the

346 PERSONAL IDENTITY.

ideas of others or giving himself up to his own--in a happy and

in an unhappy state of mind. Not only is the whole system of his

present perceptions and feelings completely different, but the

whole face of the world changes before him. The relations of its

objects among themselves and above all the relation of all of

them to him is perpetually altering, altering so as not to leave

a single vestige of their former condition. Sometimes he sees

himself one of the innumerable individuals which compose the

mass of animated nature and feels as if it were impossible that

his relations with any other of them could ever swell into such

importance as they do, so as to seem to hide from him the whole

universe. Sometimes he sees around him beings animated with

the same moral and social feelings with himself capable of giving

enjoyment to each other by the participation and interchange of
sentiments or even of looks, and feels as if he could accost each of

them by the name of brother. And sometimes he retires into

himself, sees the world around him as a series of phenomena

which affect not him--sees beings in a shape similar to his own

moving before him--sees faces of business or of feeling that pass

before him and yet feels that he has nothing to do with them,

that he has nothing in common with them--they are unrealities--

phantoms--shadows which move along the wall of his chamber.

But an enumeration is useless unless it could be given with

such fidelity and vivacity as to excite the moods which it attempts

to describe. But what is still more remarkable is that not only
are we ourselves and the objects present to us changed butour

past identity is altered. We recollect ourselves as different

beings. We recognize at different times different parts and frag

ments of our former consciousness. We seem to have several

identities and each as we enter into it brings with it the recollec

tion of so much of our former existence as has been spent in it.

As when for instance by some combination of situation or inci

dent the reminiscences of our boyhood come back to us--when all

the careless and enthusiastic temper, all the visions of incipient

thinking, all the elasticity of the spirit before it was pressed by

the load of observation and knowledge--or strained by the effort
"Iof acquiring them--rush back upon us.
                                         feel the galcs that

PERSONAL IDENTITY.  347

from ye blow "--then we seem to awake from a sleep in which

we had been plunged during the intermission of these feelings--
to resume an existence which we had laid down when we suffered

our youthful visions to slide away from us. Of all the visits of
old friends the most agreeable and the most affecting is the

visit from a man's former self. Agreeable because there is

nobody of whom we know so much and with whom we have

so many subjects of common interest--and affecting because
in truth it is rather more like a visit from the ghost Of an old
acquaintance than from himself--we know that he is gone for
ever, we see something supernatural about his return--we know

it is only momentary (like angels' visits)--we know that all

our efforts cannot detain him long, that as soon as the broad glare
of daylight breaks in upon us he will vanish and be lost. We

strive in vain to remain what we once were, and though we may
feel ourselves for a small space the same person whom we recollect
running about after butterflies our feelings roll away from us

like smoke--the busy realities of life reappear round us, and we
are left like Mirza when the vision vanished and the bare hills

of Bagdad spread drearily around him. Thus we have as many
identities as we have suits of clothes and verify Locke's idea of

a man with a sleeping and a waking set of consciousnesses, and if

Kehama had sent all the different selfs of which we are conscious

up the streets of [there is a blank in the manuscript, but the word
must be Padalon, see Curse of Kehama, XXIV] not only would he
have had as many as the service required but no one would have

recognized them for the same person.
     As a further illustration of this we may observe the complete

change of identity which seems to have taken place if we throw

our reflections back at random upon the extent of our past years--
the chance is great that among the bundle of personages which
we have brought forward to the present time we do not at first

pitch upon the one which at present we are, and therefore that

we stumble upon a person who is to us at the present moment as

great a stranger as if we had never been in habits of intimacy

with him. There is something rather melancholy in this un
ceasing flux of mental as well as corporeal individuality--this

3 48 RIMINI.

perpetual leaving out of old and taking in of new substance.
Perhaps it reminds us too strongly that transitory as are the
forms and materials of the external world, our sensations and

I Ireflections which are the materials of happiness are at least as

transitory. would willingly be much more than am indebted
to my former intellectual habits for my present enjoyments--
but alas! it may not be; the blossom must wither as the fruit

ripens.

      Obs. Some of these identities are much more agreeable and

much more valuable than others. It might be worth while to

examine which and what are the means of getting in to them.

Edinburgh Review of Swift, No. 53. The credit of the writers

of Queen Anne's age is attacked--that is while credit is allowed

them for their polish and elegance they are denied the praise of

all the higher qualities of poetry--its enthusiasm--its feeling--its

sublimity. This is a review which must produce a strong efl'ect

upon public taste--precisely because it comes to tell people what

they already begin to know or rather to feel--t0 embody in words

and to arrange in a consistent theory the perception of unsatisfac

toriness and even of weariness which every body must have begun

to feel in reading and considering the writings of that age--the

craving after more powerful passion--more sweeping interest than

those productions can exhibit. The review will produce its effect
Itbecause people are ready for it.
                                    is not indeed the first display

of such opinions we have had--but it is the first from a judicious

and disinterested quarter. All the other opponents have tried to

talk down that taste because they had something to set up in its

place. Their extravagancies indicate that a. change is taking

place in the national taste. They are the straws whose whirling

shews that the stream is turning.

[Compare the remarks on Locke, Philosophy of Discovery,

page 202.]   There is no standing out against this poem--in spite

    Rimini.

of affectation and vulgarity the truth and nature and vivid

ness of the poetry compel admiration--love. There are hundreds

of words and phrases which insulated are ridiculous and disgust

ing but in reading the poem they are what one would scarcely

                         LAY SERMON.  349

wish away--they shew that the man has got something in his

mind and is trying to express it. He is not seeking a meaning

but a word. The scenes and personages seem to be present to

him with the vivacity of an ocular spectrum. His peculiarities

that grate upon the feelings for a moment as they pass--that give

you a slight convulsive twitch as you read--are like the snappings

of an electrical machine as it sends out its flashes. Such writing

has obviously a. tendency to impregnate words with meaning.

In fact besides the meaning Of a word which can be locked up

in a definition there is a certain feeling arising from sound--

derivation--resemblance to other words--poetical uses and asso

ciations of all kinds, which floats about it like a fragrance. This

part of the impression conveyed by words he seems to have much

felt, and in his use of words he has often sacrificed the other to

it--which accounts both for the defects and merits of his diction.

His scenery reminds every body of something he has seen and
felt. His moral characters are feelingly drawn. Paulo is a

` glorious being.' His feelings after the deed are those of the best

of human beings who could commit it.

Coleridge's Lay Sermon.  The metaphysical part of it is

a professed attempt to set enthusiasm above reason, which he

calls setting reason above understanding--a most imprudent

attempt to make reason commit suicide, to induce her by names

to support a cause which involves the disclaim of her authority,

and if she were not immortal the termination of her existence.

The Reason of Coleridge seems so far as can be made out from

the unintelligible mysticism of his language to be the principle

of enthusiasm--the principle by which things which cannot be

proved are asserted, things which cannot be asserted are believed,

and things float across the mind which can neither be proved,

asserted, nor believed.

   IQuarterly Review, April, 1817. Rise and Progress of Popular

Disafi'ection. This article suppose is Southey's. When a man
of real talents falls into the ranks of party writers he gives a very
different tone to their cry. He gives the word and they all repeat
it after him. He invents for them arguments and nick-names and

abuse for their enemies and they most diligently utter them. He

35 O                      SOUTHEY.

takes care of their consistency--he does not go blundering on from'

argument to argument and from sentence to sentence--not know

ing what he is about or where he    and caring for nothing but
                                  is,
the attack or the retort of the moment. He sees the past theis

present and the future--what his principles have proceeded from
and what they tend to. Southey found many passages Of our

history considered by the world in general in a light not precisely

consistent with the opinions he wanted to support, and he has

accordingly been mending them--and what more working them
into a whole so that from this time any tory will know what

characters and transactions in the history of his country he ought

to admire and why--to the great benefit of the consistency of his

majesty's ministers. Southey has the good talent of turning to
account, and good account, every thing that he reads--and of

writing with so much spirit and freshness of feeling that he seems

but just to have read the books on which he forms his opinions--

perhaps he has. But still his science               bad and absurd. His
                          is
metaphysicsis           bad, his political economyisbad. He does not
                 is is
                       a          is
                                       a
                                         is
                                               is
understand either--and yet he resolved to abuse modern philo

sophy. He                 terrible bigot--and great believer in conspi

racies, literary and political, which nonsensical. His abuse of

Voltaire quite irrational. He however a man of sufficient

possession of general views and particular facts to make him with

his talents formidable political writer.
           a

July 25, 1817. Coleridge's Biographia Literaria. We do not

get so clear an idea of C's character from this book as we should

from an exposition equally frank by any other person--Apparently

because C's views of human character are so different from those of           __,__

any body else--we must understand something of to begin with
                          a

                                                               it
and by this means get nearer approximation and so on. The

foundation of much of his peculiarity of character seems to have

been an opinion that he was peculiar--a resolution not to find

sympathy in the mass of mankind and not to recognize as his the

ideas and feelings which fashion has established. Our present

state of society so artificial that he who does this will find him
              is
                                                                          is
self very difl'erent from the beings about him. He will however

very probably, as C. does, fancy that the difference much greater

COLERIDGE.  351

than it really is. He will think there is much less feeling, much
less sympathy, much less of the original structure of human
nature under all the improvements and modernizations, than he

would find if he were to go rightly to work. But he does not.

Most people take for granted that the rest of mankind are some

thing of the same nature with themselves and proceed to examine
how. C. did not immediately see how it was so, and so he came
to the conclusion that it was not so. And hence he seems to

himself to be much further from the general tone of society than
he really is. He will not use its poetical diction--its prose dic
tion--its metaphysics--its humour. And therefore he makes
words for himself--uses old words in new senses--makes distinc

tions where there are none--puts old thoughts in new language---

says whimsical things and then proves them to be humorous--and

all this with the air of a man quite sure of his originality and

only doubting whether he can make people understand things so
much out of their common track of ideas. His metaphysics for

instance when divested of the patch-work of old and new lan
guage in which he has disguised it would be found simple, often
superficial, not always true. His humour is heavy and uncouth--
taking for granted that his perceptions of humour'are quite dif

ferent from those of the rest of the world--he brings out every

thing that strikes them however silly, and explains every thing
however obvious. As for his wit--that kind of wit which is or
was more peculiarly so called--the wit of similes with a point--
he possesses it more perhaps than any other of our present writers.
But this too is heavily managed--he seems too much in earnest--

he seems to love his similes as real existences and to believe in

them as real arguments. He has no lightness and versatility of
mind or manner. He carries his egoism even to the heart and

believes most fully in the malignity and bad feeling even without
temptation of the reviewers and apparently of all but his friends.

This appears too in his abuse of the reading public and of the
literary character of the age.

    July 27, 1817. Hare's brother was in Holland (I think in

Brussels) and seeing a portrait of Barnevelt hanging in the room
of the inn observed to the landlord that he was a great man and

3 52             JOHNSON.

that it was wrongto put him to death. ."Oui Monsieur mais il

n'était pas orthodoxe sur la grace eflicace." Two hundred years
are not long enough to cool popular fanaticism.

    Aug. 2, 1817. Montaigne's Essays i. 46. "Mais encore a la

vérité est-il commode d'avoir un nom qui aisément se puisse

prononcer et mettre en mémoire." Alas then for Whewell!
     Sept. 18, 1817. Morality should be a real animated and

active person and not merely a wig-block to dress sentences

upon.

     Some people are obstinate from fickleness--and keep their
opinions only when reason is against them, like the weathercock
which points firmly in one direction so long as the wind blows

steadily in the opposite.
     Xenophon's style is too prolix--the ends of his sentences hang

upon you long after the effect is produced--like the smoke that

floats about long after the bullet has been discharged.
     Criticism can only spoil poetry. Bray a peacock's feather in a

mortar to analyse the colours and you will get only dirt and dust

for your pains.

Critics seem to think poets made for them--poetry is to them

the grist to keep their windmill turning.

There are people who are never so obstinate as when they

know themselves to be wrong. Opinions stick in their heads like

Jnails in a block--the firmer the more crooked they are.
Nov. 8, 1817.    ohnson's Preface to Shakespeare. How could

such a style ever be admired? Some of 'his illustrations and anti

theses are happy; but the parade of truisms--the stateliness of his

march along passages that lead to nothing is absolutely laugh
able. He seems perpetually employed in giving point to a

wooden dagger.

     Nov. 26, 1817. Supped with M. Biot at Peacock's--who is
come to get information about the system of Cambridge--he
expressed unbounded veneration for Newton. Professor Monk

was roused by some observation of his that at Oxford the build

ings were more magnificent which was agreeable to the spirit of

the place as all the poetry of the nation was there--and began
to enumerate our poets. Biot seemed to care very little for

M. BIOT.  353

.the poets. "Ah! but you have Newton; you want nothing

more."

     Nov. 28, 1817. Biot talked of Shakespeare and Racine--the

beauty of Racine was his apparent simplicity and real boldness.
Take, said he, the dialogue of Achilles and Agamemnon--read
Achilles' speech--lay down the book--what shall Agamemnon
say? He does not seem to have a word--take up the book--
read--Agamemnon says just what you feel is right, "he has rea
son." Shakespeare is inimitable in his great characters. When
Lady Macbeth says "Who would have thought the old man had
so much blood in him?" it is terrible. Prince Henry preserves

his dignity among all his low society--he never gives them a
direct answer--he talks with a perpetual irony. Biot admired

Ithe Scotch novels exceedingly--he was asked if he could under

stand them. "0 had Callum Beg for my servant two months.

IHe never went straight forwards, always obliquely and by shifts.
    pulled him back into a straight line but he soon was in his
oblique direction again." He said he understood Scotch.

      There was something unpleasant in seeing such a man as Biot

talking bad English--with a good physiognomy--dignified and
 expressive self-possession, and with a reputation for distinguished
talent. When he was silent you looked at him with veneration--
 the moment he began to speak the ridiculous mingled itself with
your impressions. His bad English and false accent gave you a
superiority over him. He seemed transformed and disguised----
under the influence of a spell. You could fancy some cnchanter

 had condemned him to appear in a degrading shape and you were
 obliged to repeat to yourself "This is Biot." You could not do

justice to what he said till you had repeated it to yourself divested

 of peculiarities of pronunciation.

      Nov. 29, 1817. Miss Baillie's Plays. Basil (Love).
      The Dialogue catches the attention--the characters are con
sistent, and the poetry very often exceedingly impressive. Basil's
 address to his mutinous soldiers is very eloquent. Victoria is a
 more worthless character than the author intended her to be.

 The language is spoiled by an abominable fancy of inverting the
 words to prevent its being too like prose:

         w. 23

354 THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.

But they beyond their proper sphere would  rise;

Let them their lot fulfil as we do ours--
Society of various parts is formed,

This is detestable and runs through all. The thing that strikes

most as'a merit is the simplicity and unambitious clearness 0f
the thoughts which is singularly contrasted with this restless

violation of simplicity of language.

    Sep. 23, 1818. It must have been very melancholy to one who

had lived with and taken an interest in the writers of the last

century to see them all dropping away in the last years of it. It

would be like putting out the candles at the theatre when the

extinguished lights remind the spectator that he cannot stay there
much longer. » Johnson died in 17841--his friend Garrick had died

in 1779 and Goldsmith in 1774. Sir J. Reynolds survived till

1792 and Burke till 1797. Mrs Carter though a friend of
Dr Johnson comes a little later, she died very old in 1806.
Mrs Chapone died in 1801, so did Mrs Montagu--so did
Dr Warton. Warburton died in 1789, Lowth in 1797, H. Walpole

died 1797 and Gibbon 1794. Cowper in 1800. Cumberland sur
vived till 1811, one of the last remains of the authors of the

eighteenth century. These great and busy minds are now all
still--their plans, their quarrels, their circles where they gave
brilliance to the conversation and almost fixed the character of

the age are past. In general, reflections on the mortality of our

nature seem most excited by the death of heroes and kings.
To me it would seem that the death of the poets and reasoners
of the age is far more afl'ecting--so much more mind seems to die
with them. The reputation of a general is but like the blast of

last night's wind: it roared and is now silent. It is transient by

its nature and when it ceases it seems but to fulfil its destiny.
But he whose mind turns on it the attention of men--who excites

a commotion among them by his thoughts, who twines his ideas
with theirs till he seems to have an existence in the breast of

each--he seems as if death had no hold upon him, and we feel

when he goes that there is no part of us twined around this

system of mortality too strongly to be separated. Even the

surviving of his works increases the solemnity of the prospect.

FALL or JERUSALEM.                                             355

The fruit lies before us but the tree has vanished. However

much we may know of his history and habits, yet that which

perishes is so much more than that which is remembered, that the

productions of his hand stand before us like the pyramids of

Egypt--the works of skill and genius, but their author is buried
in oblivion. We cannot call him back to ask him what was the

meaning or the occasion of any passage or work--it remains what
it is--and we must find its key in itself. And however great may

be his command over language, we know well that it conveys to us

but a very small part of the ideas which passed through the

mind of its author at the time when he was writing it.

March 7, 1819. First proof of Mechanics. Agreed with

Deighton for copyright for three guineas a sheet for first edition

and two guineas a sheet for succeeding editions, with three

guineas a sheet for additional matter.                  Dramatic
                                                        situations
    Jane 25, 1820. Milman's Fall of Jerusalem a

Poem. It cannot be considered as a tragedy for the

and characters are not or are very slightly subservient to a

connecting plot. It must rather be looked upon as a series of

poetical pictures of character, interspersed with lyric poetry. The

characters are introduced in succession as is convenient for this

purpose and several of them make their appearance only once or

twice. The poetry in which they are clothed is some of it beauti

ful and imaginative but the work of one who has felt and read

more than observed. Fancy and analysis predominate over know

ledge of human nature and what may be called moral imagination

or the power of entering into the feelings of the difi'erent classes

of human character. A curious consequence of this penury of

moral materials is this (and it is by no means peculiar to Mr M.
but on the contrary very extensively and strongly characterises

the narrative fiction of the present day)--that in order to make

feelings appear strong the author wrests them into something

beyond human feeling--some exaggeration amounting to a con

tradiction. They take the crookedness of the staff for an indi~

cation of its strength--they put in too large a charge to give the

ball its greatest velocity. Thus the old man who was carried by

the natural contagiousness of popular feeling to join the crucifixion

                                                        23--2

356 ` THE EXCURSION.'

of Christ is made to exult even during the darkness and the

Simon is made to rejoice in taking some bread
Jearthquake.
from a famished ewess who is preparing it for her children con

trary to the orders of the besieged city and to say

We were wiser than to bless with death
A wretch like her.

There are, however, some passages of great tenderness, which is
Milman's happiest strain. The second meeting of Javan and

Miriam at Siloe is very beautiful--her parting address to him

is touchingly solemn and affectionate. The fanatical ferocity of
Simon and the sneering malignity of John are written for con

trast but their quarrels are not made very interesting or in
telligible. Salone too who is more than half mad with the

combined effects of enthusiasm, hunger, and love is very abrupt
in her transitions. Miriam is the most naturally written cha

racter and indeed appears to have flowed warm from Mr Ms

pen, though she is sometimes too reflective. The lyric poetry is

harsh and often feeble and flutters very low from the rest.

     Dec. 10, 1820. Wordsworth's Excursion Books 6, 7, 8, 9

Ifinished. Either the latter part is worse than the first or am

not in a proper frame of mind to enjoy it (I do not suppose that
having seen the author has any thing to do with it). This part
of the poem appears to me very prolix, prosaic, and in some
places nearly unintelligible (beginning of Book 9). The general

objections to the whole plan of the poem--its vvant of interest

Iand incident--its childishness--its enthusiastic but think quite

false philosophy are burdens which press it more as it draws
towards the close. Still there are some beautiful touches of

description and feeling--especially in Book 6 where the vicar

gives the histories of the tenants of the different graves. The
discussion of the effects of the manufacturing system does not

shew any great power of general reasoning, which is a fair criti
cism upon it because that is what it pretends to.

    Sunday, Feb. 10, 1822. It was said of Socrates that he with

drew the philosophy of his age from subjects entirely speculative and
unprofitable, the mere matters of curiosity and exercises of acute

ness which had employed the reasoners of Greece up to his time,

THE CHRISTIAN DISPENSATION.  357

and directed it towards practical principles. His study was the
rules of judging of human conduct and of analysing the motives
of human action, and he taught that the most important use of
knowledge is to regulate our daily conduct and habitual feelings.

If we consider those men as more particularly the instruments of

the superintending Deity, who, gifted by Him with extraordinary
talents and virtues, have tended to elevate the tone and character

of those among whom they have lived, to purify their manners

and ideas, and by their powerful influence to purge away as it

were some of that mass of selfishness and grossness which by the
daily intercourse of vulgar minds and passions is perpetually
accumulating in the habits of men ;--then we may look upon this
teacher as the unconscious messenger of a wakeful Providence,
and as the preacher of a doctrine which a benevolent God would
not suffer to be extinguished. And accordingly his labours were
not useless, and his philosophy was long felt in its kindly opera
tion upon the views of those who followed him in moral spe

culation.

     But we stand under another dispensation than this. We have
not been left to the lessons which human reason and human

virtues, however exalted and purified, could teach us. We have
not to trust for our illumination to those casual and intermitting
stars of genius which in the usual order of human affairs blaze
forth from time to time like the brilliant meteors of a polar
winter. For us the long darkness is passed, and the superior
and unvarying light of the risen sun fills our hemisphere. Doc
trines fitted to refine and elevate the soul, motives to the most

spotless and energetic virtue, means of purifying and renewing
the heart, far beyond all that man could before imagine, have
been imparted to us; and of these we do not conjecture but are
certain that He who taught them had them from God, that He
knew what was the ministry in which He was engaged, and we
may conceive that the manner in which the laws of the material
world were suspended at His bidding was emblematical of the
miraculous place which His religion was to hold in the world of
human thoughts and feelings. Other systems may have checked
in a few persons, for a short time, the vicious propensities of

358 PEVERIL OF THE PEAK.

human nature; but Christianity was to change the views and

influence the conduct of the world. It was not to improve only,

it was to transform the heart; it was not to restrain the actions
only, it was to reach the motives ; and it was not to seek admis
sion at the reason of a few speculative men only, but it was
to claim, as of right and by the authority of the Creator, dominion

over the minds of all.

    If Heathen Philosophy could boast to be not a merely curious

and useless pursuit, but a course of moral discipline and practical
self-government, surely Christianity should still rather and more
justly bear this character. Its great and ultimate purpose is
with the hearts .of men; and it uses their reason only as a

passage to that object. It promises no discoveries except those

which concern the relation of man to God, it does not require as

essential any exercise of the ingenuity or acuteness--it makes no
display of food for the curious or the profound; but it says "my
son give me thy heart"--it requires a submission of the will and
the hope to God, and it promises a regeneration of the moral
man--it is in short, simply and solely, a practical religion.

    Would it not then be strange if possessing and professing

such a Religion, being the disciples of such a school, we should

still require teachers to do for our philosophy, if we may call it so

without ofl'ence, that which an unassisted reasoner did for the

ancient world--bring it home to our bosoms and to our daily
business and remind us that it is neither a mere matter of

speculation nor of form; that it is neither a science nor a con--

troversy but a Religion?

     May, 1822. Fortunes of Nigel--sadly stupid--scarcely a good

passage or character to redeem it.

     Feb. 18, 1823. Pevem'l of the Peak. Extravagant in story, though

the author has moulded historical facts without any ceremony
to answer his purpose. Characters hard and dry, circumstances

forced and barren compared with the earlier works. Supernatural
parts beyond poetical belief--still, better than Nigel.

     Elia (Essays by Ch. Lamb). Ingenious, and shewing a kind

and good-humoured disposition in many places; but conceited
and strained. The singular narrowncss of his materials and mode

DISCOURSE ON TASTE.  359

  of speculation forces him to follow out all the phraseological,
  moral, and metaphysical, relations of his subject in the narrow

  field which his habits of combination and observation give

  him.

       Feb. 22, 1823. Burke. Discourse on Taste, Introductory to

  Essay on Sublime anal Beautiful. Taste the faculty which is

 affected by works of imagination and the elegant arts. In simple

  sensations the sensation is the same to all (as sweet, bitter).
 Also the same sensation is originally pleasant to all--though it
  may be otherwise by habit (as tobacco). The imagination pos
 sesses a power of recalling and combining images of things--and
 here besides the pleasure of sensation there is the pleasure of the

 perception of imitation. In the first men agree as appears from

 what has been said--in the second they may differ by their
 differences of sensibility and of attention (or experience) but in
 this case it is the judgment which determines. Sensible qualities

 are subjects on which men judge alike--so are passions--but man

 ners and characters are subjects on which we judge differently--

 and we learn to judge of these when we learn "morality and the
 science of life--skill in manners, the Observances of time and

 place and of decency in general." Hence Burke infers that taste

 depends upon sensibility and upon the exercise of the common

 faculty of judgment.

      The objection to this is that the enumeration of the pleasures
of the fine arts above does not appear to be complete. For it
appears that there are many objects which please where we
cannot reduce the pleasure either to that of sensation or to that
of imitation. Can we resolve into these elements the qualities

which we call elegant, graceful, picturesque; the pleasure which
we receive from a beautiful urn ; from a rose as compared with

other flowers; from a thatched cottage with a broken outline?

It would seem not. And on these qualities men do not agree.

     Again, with respect to character and manners, it appears that
as objects of taste they are judged of by other principles than.
matters of morality, and apparently much less certain ones. Of
morality we have measures and standards. Of taste we have
none except those which arise from taking principles generally

`360                  WILHELM MEISTER.

assented to and enunciating them as rules; and these vary much

with time and place.         `

Finally, can taste be placed in the exercise of the judgment

till it can be shewn what those principles are with which we

judge objects to agree or to differ?                                                                                                    .

    April 2, 1824. Wilberforce's Practical View of Christianity.

Evangelical views enforced with great clearness and strength,

much acuteness and skill in detecting the shades of worldly

feeling and the modifications of self-deceit, and remarkable ele

gance of style and often eloquence. See particularly Chap. 4 §
on the error of substituting amiable tempers and useful lives in
       is is

                                                                                                                                   4-,
the place of religion--the paragraph on the short and precarious

duration of such qualities.

     There an error which appears to belong to all persons of
this class of opinions of degrading human nature too much. To

say that we are utterly corrupted, and that our best actions have
no merit, merely to substitute words for ideas, for our feeling of

moral approbation cannot be got over. By instances and infer

ences they prove that man has many bad feelings and propen
sities; in the same way you may prove that he has many good
ones; both are true--and withOut` religion the bad will in the

bulk of mankind predominate. They ought to be content with

this.

- Sep. 26,. 1824. Soathey's Roderick--as touching and beautiful

as ever.              Goethe's Wilhelm Meister.  A collection of
      Feb. 26, 1825.

speculative generalities, which are put in the mouths of all the

characters without exception. N0 incidents, no intelligible rea

sons why the persons should feel and act as they do, no character
in the conversations, little wit, little description which at all
a
                                              is
                                                        is

                                                              if
                                                                       it

                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                 is
striking, and in short nothing to interest. The description of

German dramatic party curious in its way         be exact, and

the sequel of Mariana's story pathetically told. Mignon

unintelligible and unpleasant.                    The view enter;
                                                 for a perpetually
      Sunday, Nov. 13, 1825. Reflexions on God.
tained by those who do not see the necessity

sustaining and preserving Providence in the world, seems to be

LAWS or NATURE.  361

this, that the material portions and elements of the universe may
have certain laws impressed upon them--or certain properties in
their nature--according to which they operate and combine and
produce all the phenomena which we see. And these persons
think that they can easily conceive that these laws and properties
may be so balanced and related to each other that they may give
rise to a perpetually proceeding series or cycle of physical events
and appearances, always varying but never tending to absolute
derangement, and therefore not requiring any interference to
keep them in continued play. Such laws, for instance, are the
laws of motion, of the action of light, of heat, the chemical pro
perties of substances, and others. And to such persons it seems
that when we have reduced natural phenomena to these laws we
have done something in the way of simplifying and illustrating
the explanation of nature as an assemblage of matter merely, and
have removed the necessity for considering an immaterial and
intelligent agent one step farther from us, while we have brought
the idea of the world as a machine much more distinctly into

 our view.

      The discovery of such laws is undoubtedly an employment

 which gives a strong and peculiar pleasure to a speculative mind.
 Their beauty and satisfactoriness consists in their being general~
 izations and simplifications; we are able to comprehend a number
 of particular facts so as to consider them as instances of the same
 rule--or we are able to explain a complex appearance as the ope
 ration of one or two properties which at first seems to depend on
 a combination of many. And when we can carry on this process

 from one stage to another till we arrive at laws of very great

 generality and simplicity, we see innumerable facts of the most
 remote and dissimilar kind arranging themselves under one class,
 and becoming as it were only different exhibitions of a principle
 which we represent to ourselves as the most simple and single
 imaginable. Thus the few laws of motion and force being once
 obtained, the steady and perpetual march of the heavenly bodies
 in their orbits and the motion of the slightest atom which is car
 ried about by the wind are alike exemplifications of them. And
 it is felt by every contemplative person that these combinations

362  LAWS OF NATURE.

when they can be thus considered, seem in a remarkable manner
to give us that knowledge which it is the object of our enquiries
into nature to obtain. We are satisfied with our acquired views

as far as we go, and what we wish is to go still farther in the

same direction--to bring our general principles under some one
still more general; to reduce our simple laws to one still more

simple.

     Why we receive this great pleasure from the success of such
speculations is perhaps more than we can expect to answer. But
the fact will probably be allowed by those with whom we are con
cerned. And we may then ask why we can after such discoveries

and views more easily believe the course of nature to be self-sub

sisting and self-permanent than before. That we can conceive
and can explain it more easily is granted, but why should this
affect our belief as to the agency by which it is produced? The

particular events are the same as before, only we have learnt to

consider them in a new point of view. We have discovered no
new power, no new agency in nature; we have only found the

rule according to which the results are produced. Such a rule

satisfies us as a way in which we can consider objects, but such a

rule so discovered by us cannot be an active and positive agent.

Except in the mind of an intellectual spectator such a rule is

nowhere and nothing. It exists in nature just as the knowledge

of a language exists, by means of which we are enabled to under
stand the characters of a book presented to us. The letters are

there and we know what thoughts and feelings are expressed by

them, but these thoughts and feelings have not produced the let--
ters. So in nature, her facts are the same whether or' not we

know her language, that is the laws which she expresses by
them, but these laws cannot have produced and cannot reproduce
the facts. They classify them, they give significance to them,

they make me read and understand and rejoice in the contempla
tion of them, but they cannot alter my views of the agency which

Iproduces each particular event, except they make me believe, like

the deluded astronomer in Abyssinia, that myself am the ruler

and mover of all the system.   If these general laws which we
     But we cannot stop here.

LAWS OF NATURE.  363

thus discover in the universe exist only in our minds, and operate
not upon matter but upon our way of considering and viewing its
properties; and if nevertheless we feel this irresistible conviction

that they are truly and rightly deduced from nature, and are
really the rules to which she is subjected; and if this conviction

is accompanied with a glow and an exultation as if we had ob

tained something which indeed deserves the name of knowledge,

we cannot but suppose that they have some meaning and origin
beyond ourselves. This indeed is manifest. For these laws are

assuredly not arbitrary and conventional; not taken up according
to caprice or accident; neither are they mere classifications and
indexes of phenomena; but along with the possibility of their de
duction comes always the evidence that they have a meaning and
a reality of their own proper kind. Now it appears that their
only meaning and reality consists in their existing in the mind of

an intelligent being, and thus becoming the rules according to
which he contemplates or acts. And here therefore the conclusion

forces itself upon us that these general laws must have prevailed

in the mind of an intellectual being by whom the material world

is governed. There is no other manner in which they could exist

as they undoubtedly do. They are there, and we can trace them
to no other origin. With this view they become intelligible and
conceivable. They are the laws according to which the Author of
the world works. They are the characters which He has stamped
upon His productions and which we are enabled to read. With
us, as was said before, they are the knowledge of the language in
which the book of nature is written. And this language is the
expression of His thoughts, and we can read it so far as our minds
are of the same nature with His. As soon as we suppose this
book to have had an intelligent author our knowledge of the lan
guage does enable us to attribute it to Him, to understand Him,
to a certain extent to go along with Him. The laws of nature,

then, are no longer laws which inert matter observes, as the

phrase is used, and obeys in a manner apparently unintelligible
but in fact contradictory; they are laws according to which the
Creator causes matter to act and work--objects of thought to

Him as to us--rules of operation with Him; trains of delighted.

364 LAWS OF NATURE.

contemplation to us. He is the agent, and every single fact----the

leaf that falls to the ground, the bubble that bursts in the stream,
the comet that sails through the planetary orbs, are under the

immediate guidance of His finger. It is He who directly and im

mediately paints the western sky, and streaks the tulip, and
scents the rose, and gives its flavour to the a'nana. And it is

most unwise and inconsistent when we forget this, because we can
go a step or two farther and trace the rules of action of this
Divine mind, and see the permanency of His ways, and feel how

agreeable and suitable they are to the highest intellectual nature.

itStill more strange and insane iswhen fixing our attention
                          it,

                                             is
solely on these rules we forget the very Being in whom alone they
exist, and deify as were the maxims of His government while

we deny that He governs at all.

But having got so far we can now perhaps give some reason at

least for the strong and peculiar pleasure which we receive from

Itsuch discoveries as have been spoken of. a feeling which we

may well exult and rejoice in, that we can obtain to some extent
a view of the rules by which the Highest Intelligence forms and

guides the world; that we can see their beauty depending upon

this very circumstance, that they are so few, so wide, so simple, so

sufficient. It not wonderful that every step which we make in
is
                      a
                                              is
                                              it
                                                               is
                                                                              is
this direction, every new success, every additional glimpse should

come upon our sense with sweetness all its own, and seem the

perfection of our speculative nature. It natural that as we cul

tivate this speculative spirit we should be more and more desirous

of going on in this career, that whenever numerous and various

facts present themselves we should struggle to take hold of their

general laws, and thus to understand what        that God

expressing by them, that we should seize with eagerness such

fragments and discovered glimpses as we can catch, like phrases

of the sublimest eloquence in a language which we imperfectly

understand, and that we should remain unsatisfied and restless

till we can connect these fragments into a whole, these broken

phrases into an intelligible declaration. Every new law that wea
discover does thus, in proportion to its generality, bring us to

nearer and nearer knowledge of the thoughts of God as they

                   LAWS or NATURE.                                 365

regard the material world, and- the pursuits of science acquire a
dignity and an importance which almost invests them with a reli

gious awe. The pride of discovery, the elevation of spirit which

we feel when a new principle dawns upon us, the triumph with

which it fills our mind and the energ with which itimpels our

enquiries, all these feelings are as it were hallowed and sanctified

because they arise from that tendency which draws us towards the
Divine mind, and makes us seek the perfection of our nature in
Him. And it must be thought to add no small dignity to our

intellectual nature that it thus appears that it so far resembles His
--.so far that something of what He does we can understand when

done; that the laws by which He delights to act we delight to con
template; that we can consider nature till the material shell and

frame-work falls away and we see the Divine ideas, almost we

might say before they are embodied in matter.

This is not so far applicable to the moral world, because the

laws which we discover are of much more limited generality and

more numerous, and in no instance reach an elementary simplicity

and extent. Indeed there seems to be no example in which we

can go even far in this process, much less near the end of it.

The speculations concerning final causes in the moral world are
the best specimens, and these are not of the certainty and extent

of the others. Hence it would seem that we were not intended to

speculate  upon the pheI nomena  of the moral world by means of
                                                                                                         '
our reason alone.

The examples are however enough for the argument, and these

therefore lead us demonstrably to the moral qualities of God.

     March 19, 1826. Shakespeare's description [of Cleopatra's
passage up the Cydnus] contains an allusion to the faga i'ac'ai:

                                          Antony...did sit alone,
           Whistling to the air; which, but for vacancy,
           Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,

           And made a gap in nature.

    Sept. 30, 1828. Edinburgh Review. On History (I suppose by
Macaulay). Extremely brilliant and elegant Essay writing like

his preceding reviews, but not very profound. Perhaps this is
an advantage and tends to the effect. His thoughts are a little

366 ' MACAULAY.

beyond commonplace and vulgar opinions, and by bestowing all
his pains to illustrate them he obtains at the same time the
praise of originality and of clearness. His opinions in themselves
are not stamped with great thought, but the detail and illustra~
tion of them is so varied and pointed that they cease to be
superficial. He takes a common thesis--that poetry declines as
criticism advances--that authors reason better when they are
to be read than to be heard: and these doctrines become so clear
that they seem to be new by their ceasing to have the indistinct
ness of commonplace. He is in prose what Byron is in poetry,
one step before his readers; and thus he fills the eye and strikes

the senses more than if he were farther in advance.

                     CHAPTER XIX.

                                          PO ETICAL PIECES.

I[DR WHEWELL'S manuscripts include some poetical pieces; from

these select a few, all belonging to his early years]

                                              I.

                  O GENTLE shepherd tell me why----
               When evening opes her dewy eye,
             Why still with folded arms you love
             And head reclined to seek the grove,
             And wander pensive where the breeze
              Sighs sadly through the waving trees;

          If thou art wrung with woes like me

         IThen, shepherd, will go with thee.
            If Avarice grieve for riches lost,

            Or if thou mourn Ambition crost,
           Or if it be Remorse that speaks
            In the wan hollow of thy cheeks,

         If on thy lonely thoughts attend

             An injured parent or a friend,
              Then thou, 'thank heaven, art not like me;
              No, shepherd--I go not with thee.

            If some fair nymph who once was kind

              Now slights thee, changeful as the wind,
              Or thy absent charmer gone,
            Thy days and hours drag weary on,
              Then envy might pervade my breast
            For thou, my friend, hast once been blest
            Yes, heaven's more kind to thee than me
            Nor, shepherd, will go with thee.
if,

             I
                                                                                                        ;

368 POETICAL PIECES.

               But if thou go'st to tell the grove
             Thy mournful tale of HOPELESS LOVE, `
             Of love that still would silent lie

              Save in the frequent-bursting sigh,
             For one as fair as eve's fair star
             And ah! beyond thy reach as far,
              Then thou art yoked in grief with me

         IAnd, shepherd, will go with thee.

                 --To haunt with ling'ring step the place
               Where first thou saw'st her angel face;
               To watch where thy bright goddess lies

          If one chance glimpse may bless thy eyes;

             But never, never yet to dare
               To tell thy passion to the fair--
            Hast thou done this? ah! how like me-.

         IYes, shepherd, will go with thee.

                   Together let us seek the shade
              By black'ning pines and poplars made,
               Beneath the beech together lie
              And answer mutual sigh for sigh,
              And on the willow carve their names
               ('Tis all we can) to soothe our flames;
              Thus wilt thou share thy griefs with me?

         IThen, shepherd, lo! go with thee.

        June, 1813.

                                    II.

          0 THOU who bid'st th' adventurous spirit roam

        Beyond the narrow boundaries of home;
        Who view'st the distant shores with piercing eye
       That hid by half the world's big convex lie;
       Who mak'st the East and West join hands to pour
       Their mingled produce on each other's shore ;

POETICAL PIECES.                                      369

Thou that can'st tread the sea andride the gale,.  `

O heaven-born GENIUS or DISCOVERY, hail!

Inspired by thee, since first the world began
Man seeks acquaintance with his brother man;

Phoenicia's early sons, inspired by thee,

Ranged every shore that bounds their inland sea;

And while fond self-complacent Athens own'd
Alcides' pillars earth's remotest bound, '

Thy favoured Carthage sought on Albion's shore.

Her precious mineral and her sparkling ore:

And though when clouds of Gothic gloom opprest

The setting glories of the darkened West,

Though then amid the night of science chain'd

Barbarian fetters long thy flight restrain'd,

Yet the first breath of Europe's balmy morn
Shook off thy bonds; beneath thy influence born

Pleased Commerce bask'd on thy Venetian isles,

And wealthy Genoa felt thy cheering smiles;- ,

Beneaththy sheltering wing did Vasco brave

The storm-clad spirit of the Indian wave;

But chief thy soul-expanding power possest
Its spacious templein COLUMBUS' breast ;--

Ill-starr'd Columbusl--with _a soul to embrace

The rounded earth hung in th'abyss of space,
Yet doom'd the petty arts of courts to try ,
And freeze beneath neglect's ungenial eye,

To stoop to sue the gifts of kings to gain;

And,--O caprice of fate l--to sue in vain:

Yes--the great veil that o'er the Atlantic spread

Concealed the secrets of its western bed,

That veil, which first Columbus dared to raise, :

Had fallen again with him :--In future days,

Europe, denied her niggard princes' aid,

In ignorance of a sister world had laid.

What parent Genoa fitter had supplied,

What France and Spain and England had denied,

w. 24

370 POETIOAL PIECES;

       The power to execute his great design,
       Thine, Isabel, the glorious gift was thine;
       His plans derided and his hopes forlorn,
       'Twas thine to bid him rise above their scorn,
       To bid his prow explore the wish'd-for sea
      And half we owe the western world to thee.

          And now the busy shore behind them cast
       Three little barks obeyed the eastern blast ;--
       Night rolls on night--and now their recent keels
       The wild waste of the mid Atlantic feels.--
       Sweet on the wide expanse the moonbeams sleep
      And faintly throbs th' interminable deep;
       Proudly the ships above the waters glide,
       The sparkling ocean murmurs at their side;
       The whitened canvas swelling in the gale,
       The sportive moon-beams silver o'er the sail,
       Where ne'er the moon had seen a sail before,
      Nor heard the surge about a vessel roar;
       Five thousand years the moon that sea had seen
      And many a lovely night had smiled serene;
      But till that hour ne'er did her radiance rest
       On aught but ocean's vast unvaried breast;
       Ne'er had she heard, borne on the midnight breeze,
       Aught but the drowsy hum of endless seas.

      July, 1813.

                                   III.

           IN early days when social life began,
       When nature's wants were all the wants of man,

     A day of hunting or of war gone by

      The naked tribe enjoy'd the evening sky.
       Then rose the early hard and pour'd his song,
       Attentive silence held the list'ning throng;

POETICAL PIECES.                                                                                                             37].:

 Rude, nervous, bold, th' untutor'd numbers fiovv'd,

Thick in the strain the daring image glow'd;

 The crowd enraptured saw at his command
 Each absent scene before them vivid stand;

And, (if the soul swept onwards in the strain
Left reason pow'r to exercise her reign,)

Perhaps they marvell'd how the poet's ken
Could catch those traits that scape the gaze of men;
Which each one owns to mark the object strong
And wonders how they shunn'd his eye so long.

     But then, where'er the poet turn'd his View,

Burst on his sight some scene, some object new;
                                                                                                                          i

And when th' enthusiasm of poetry
Had pour'd its influence on his raptured eye,
Whatever prospect met his heav'n-purged sight

Was clothed in colours fair and glitt'ring light.
     The Muse as yet was young, and like a child

Where'er she turn'd her eyes with wonder smiled ;.
Amid romantic glens she careless stray'd,
 And cull'd her fiow'rets in the deep'ning shade;
With all the world before her trackless spread

In others' steps she need not fear to tread.
     But when bard after bard arose to sing,

And still the same trite themes awaked the string;
To praise the hunter or the battling host,
To soothe the warrior's or the maiden's ghost;

The muse indignant spurn'd the well-worn sod,
And sought more verdant fields and plains untrod;
And hence with love of Novelty imbued

In every path the flying form pursued;

Stalk'd through the lengthen'd Epic's sounding song,

Or pensive walked with Elegy along,.
Or sported in the Pastoral, or rode

In wild career upon th' unbridled Ode,

Or vice to reach with Satire's lashes strove,

Or rambled in the myrtle bow'rs of Love:

                                                             24-2

372 POETICAL PIECES.                                               l

      Yet flying still, the ever-changing shape,                   (
       Though often grasp'd, was grasp'd but to escape.            i

            But when, no more a heav'n-selected few,
       Succeeding poets still more num'rous grew;
      When those who felt no muse's holy fire,
       Dared with unhallow'd hands to touch the lyre;
      When wider still the itch of verse did steal
       On all who could, or could not think and feel;
       When flatt'ry too, audacious, dared to claim
       The sacred sanction of the muse's name;
       And when ev'n rufiian vice unblushing prest
       With hand defiled to touch her heav'n-wrought vest;
        Despairing then she stood with tearful eye
       And saw her plains in desolation lie,
       While servile bands rapacious ranged around,
      Olaim'd the waste fields and seized the mind ground.
        Here Imitation shakes her leaden chain,
       And there stands Plagiarism disguised in vain,
       And Nonsense rages by no rule confined,
       And mad Bombast and drowsy Dulness join'd:
        Hence with disgust the goddess heav'n-ward flies,
       And spurns the worthless crowd and seeks her native skies.

            Yet though 'mid fields of light she dwells on high
        She loOks on scenes below with gracious eye,
        And, when among the sons of men she sees
        One whom for her the will of heav'n decrees,
        Stoops, as the bird that guards th' Olympian king,
        And bears him upward on her eagle wing;
        And bids him View the scenes that lie below
        With glories new and rainbow colours glow;
        And, as he sees the world beneath him roll,
         Feel loftier raptures swell within his soul.

      Sept. 17, 1813.

POETICAL PIECES.                                       373

                                    IV.

 FRIEND of my youth! my dearest, earliest, best!

   IMy Muse! companion of my boyish years!

 On whose fond bosom once loved to rest
     Each opening feeling life's fair spring endears!

I. 0 well thou know'st how raptured oft sought

   nWith thee to rove--to seek the shade with thee--
 Warm on thy ear to pour the rising thought,

     And gaze on all around in extacy.

 IBeloved Enchantress! while with thee strayed,

     Responsive to thy smile all nature smiled,
.And every opening bud of life seemed made

     To fling its fragrance round thy favour'd child.

 0 loved departed days! but thou--so soon--
    Art thou too gone with boyhood's rosy morn?

  Must youth's joys vanish at th' approaching noon,
     Like early dew drops on the glittering thorn?

  With unsuspicious hope--with feeling warm--
     With fancy's vivid powers--art thou too gone?

 With thee is vanished Nature's every charm---

   IA wilderness around--and alone.
 IIn vain seek thy voice--ah! well known sound--

    In all the haunts thy soul was wont to love,

  When spring in fragrant whispers breathes around,
     When autumn sighs along the flutt'ring grove--

 IE'en when roam great ocean's shore along

     And hear his nightly roar--and see him roll
  The bright moonbeams his restless waves among,

     And all his boundless voice comes o'er my soul--

  E'en at that hour--to thee of old so dear--

   IScarce can catch thy sweet familiar tone;

 Amid the roar it faintly strikes my ear,
     Like a departed friend, with distant moan.

374 POETICAL PIECES.

0 yet, my friend, return--O speak again--
   With all thy dear delusions hither haste;

Bring all my early joys--thy smiling train--
   Change the drear present for the glowing past.--

For all but thou is full of fraud and guile--

The world is fair, but joyless is its band;

The heartless pleasure and the unfelt smile,

__ The withered flower that flies the grasping hand.

ITo thee--my earliest love, to thee  come,

0 ope thy arms, and let me on thy breast

Forget the lures that drew me from that home,

And lull my disappointed hopes to rest.

Bunnmeron, Sept. 1816.

                                           V.

           June, 1817. Schiller's Works, Vol. I. p. 49.

[An Minna. Schiller's Sdm-mtliche Werke, 184.4, Vol. I. p. 71.]

       I IAm dreaming? am doating?

               .O'er my eye-sight sure's a blot:
            Can my Minna by me floating

                Pass along and know me not?
           On the arms of coxcombs leaning--l

                Playing antics with her fan--
           Vain, and of herself o'erweening,

           Minna this? It never can.

            Plumes, that on her hat waved lightly

         IWhen gave them, wave there yet:

            Knots that deck her bosom brightly
              Cry--ah! canst thou then forget?

            On her breast and hair are braided
               Flowers that grew beneath my care,

          But that heart to me is faded
               Though the flowrets bloom so fair.

                     POETICAL PIECES.       '375

 Go--around thee call thy smilers;
    Go--and think no more on me;

 Prey t0 sordid mean beguilers
    How my heart despises thee.

 Go--for thee a heart once fluttered,
    Throbbed in earnest, but in vain,

 For a silly woman uttered
    Vows--but it can bear its pain.

 Beauty was thy heart's undoing--
    Beauty--shame to have it said;

Lo! to-morrow sees its ruin
    Like the flower whose leaves are shed.

Swallows come when spring days brighten,
    Go again when north winds roar,

Lovers will thy autumn frighten
    But thy Friend returns no more.

In the ruins of thy sweetness

  IAll forlorn see thee stay

Weeping at thy spring time's fleetness,
    Mourning for thy hours of May.

All that with desire once burning

    Snatched thy kisses when they glow,

All thy faded beauties scorning

    Scoff thy days of winter snow.

Beauty was thy heart's undoing;

   Beauty, shame to have it said,
Yet tomorrow sees its ruin,

   Like the rose whose leaves are shed.

IThen may despise and spurn thee--
  ISpurn thee! God above forefend;

No--ah deeply shall mourn thee,
   Bitter tears shall weep thy end.

L)

                      CHAPTER XX.

                MISCELLANEOUS PROSE PIECES.

[A FEW pieces were put in a packet and marked unpublished,

Ieither by Dr Whewell himself, or by those who looked over his

papers; theSe will now mention.

     On the nature of the operation of thought by which we form

Metaphors. This is a very early essay, consisting of 16 pages; it

is unfinished.

     Draft of a letter without superscription or signature, enquiring

about the optical researches of M. Fresnel. This was probably
meant for M. Biot or M. Arago ;_ it consists of 2 pages.

     Remarks on Style and on Keble's Christian Year. This con

sists of 6 pages; it is unfinished.

    Analysis or Review of the History of the Inductive Sciences.

This is written in a playful style ; it consists of 18 pages.

    A long paper on the subject of communication between the

Earth and the Moon. This is the most curious of all the unpub

Ilished pieces, and will give! arm-analysis of it. The paper takes

the form of a fictitious story in which the narrator, who had long

felt a desire to communicate with some other part of the Uni

verse, as the Sun, the Moon, and the Planets, describes the amount

of success which had attended his wishes. The manuscript is in

four parts; not only however is the story left unfinished, but each
part also seems to terminate abruptly. The whole would occupy

about 70 octavo pages. The handwriting and the treatment of
the subject shew that it was composed after the Essay on the

Plurality of Worlds.                 -

    Contents of the First Part. Desire to communicate with some

THE EARTH AND THE MOON.  377

other part of the Universe. The Fixed Stars, the Sun, Mercury,
Jupiter, and Saturn cannot be supposed inhabited; but Mars,

Venus, and the Moon may be. It is hopeless to get to Mars or

Venus, but perhaps not to get to the Moon. Engineers can ac

complish anything now if they have adequate funds; they might

perhaps project a man, or build a structure, from the Earth to the
Moon. The expense of such a structure would be enormous,
though perhaps not greater than is now wasted in wars. But the

want of air above a certain point would be an insuperable diffi
culty; and this sends us back to the notion of a projectile. Then
however we find that the velocity required at starting would be
enormous; but that to come from the Moon to the Earth would
not be so extravagant. This leads to the consideration of meteoric

stones, which may have come from the Moon. Astronomers have

generally held that the Moon is. uninhabited, but the account of

the shape of the Moon recently given: by Professor Hansen sug
gests that there may be inhabitants of the Moon~ on that side of it
which is turned away from the Earth. This is a fresh incentive

to the examination of meteoric stones.

      Contents of the Second Part. This begins with a digression re
lating to E. D. Clarke, the traveller and Professor of Mineralogy
at Cambridge. The story is resumed with the narrator at Pekin,

where he is introduced to an extraordinary person named Mono,
who like himself is deeply interested in meteoric stones. The two

resolve to proceed together to the spot in Siberia where the fa

mous meteoric stone was discovered of which Pallas speaks in his

travels. On the journey they have a long conversation respecting
the appearances which the Earth and the Heavens would present
to a spectator on the Moon.

     Contents of the Third Part. Mono reveals who he is and

whence he came.

     Contents of the Fourth Part. The narrator obtains some

explanations from Mono as to portions of the extraordinary reve
lation; and then they agree to visit Peru in hopes of finding some

Itraces of a brother whom Mono has lost and deplores.
         print the digression relating to E. D. Clarke, and also the
whole of the Third Part. The two preceding Chapters consisted

378 I EDWARD DANIEL CLARKE.

mainly of compositions of Dr Whewell's earlier years; the re
mainder of the present Chapter belongs to his later years]

   IAs the result of the train of reflection which have been
I Idescribing resolved, as have said, to devote myself to the study

of meteoric stones--stones which had fallen or were supposed to

have fallen from the skies upon the earth. This subject acquired

Ia new and fascinating interest for me in the recent years of which
  have mainly to speak and was the occasion of the strange ad

I Iventures which have to describe. But of such stones had

known something for many years and of the oscillations of scien

Itific opinion concerning them. When was an undergraduate at
ICambridge about 1813, attended the mineralogical lectures of

the celebrated Edward Daniel Clarke, then just returned from his

travels which had extended from the Baltic to the Crimea and

the Mediterranean. Certainly Clarke was one of the most striking

characters belonging to the Cambridge life of that my early time.

He was very eloquent :---I should! say the most naturally eloquent
Iman have heard : that
                        he gave to what he said all the charm
                        a is,
                                                                                  a
that fluency, earnestness and fine delivery could give, independent

of its meaning and purport, which often could not bear close

examination. He was not profound or exact man of science, but

he had a good knowledge of what was doing in the world of

science, and undaunted courage in endeavouring to take his share

in it. He very nearly blew himself to pieces once or twice in his

experiments with his oxyhydrogen blowpipe.  He on returning

to the University after his travels began to deliver a course of

lectures on Mineralogy, which were very attractive, for in them

he introduced stories and discussions about all that he had seen

and heard of in the course of his travels. Among other things he

spoke of meteoric stones. The celebrated mass of meteoric iron

which Pallas had seen in Siberia and had described in his Travels,

had then recently,drawn general attention to the subject. Clarke

had of course theory on the subject of these stones.  do not
if

               a
                                    a

                                              I
know any one now maintains that theory. He held that as all

substances can exist in a gaseous state, the components of these

stones might occur, in gaseous state, in the higher regions of

                EDWARD DANIEL CLARKE.                                                              379

the earth's atmosphere; might there, owing to some natural event

or other, combine; of course with explosive violence, noise and
Ifire, and might then fall to the earth.  do not know if his

theory made many converts; .some of us certainly laughed at it;

and one of my friends said that it seemed to him just as likely

that the air should drop biscuits from time to time in the neigh

bourhood of a flour mill. But the accounts of the peculiarities of

the known masses of meteoric iron were very curious. There was

a specimen of Pallas's Siberian specimen in the Geological Mu

seum which had been bequeathed to the University of Cambridge

by Woodward; a man ridiculed by Pope who was his contempo

`rary, but who was far in advance of his age in perceiving the

importance of collections of organic and other fossils. Among

other curiosities he had managed to procure a specimen of this
Siberian mass of meteoric iron. And there were indeed two spe

cimens of this mass in the collection; for one of the Woodwardian

Professors, Hailstone, had procured a specimen after the mass

became known through Pallas's account of it; and had placed it

in the Woodwardian Museum to shew how vigilant and. judicious

Woodward had been in making his collection of curiosities.

[We now pass to the Third Part of the piece]

We now approached the place where the celebrated mass

of meteoric iron had been found and Where it was supposed to

have fallen on its arrival at the earth. This spot
it                                                  as we are
                                               it

                                                                             a
                                                                                              is,

                                                                                              is
told by Pallas, an elevated point of slate-mountain, between

the rivulets Ubei and Sisim, both which spring from the side

of the wild mountains between Abakansk and Balskoi, or

Karaulnoi Ortrog, and fall into the Yenisei: the spot                                              four

wersts from the former, and six wersts from the latter place;

and about twenty wersts from the Yenisei. The mass when

found was entirely detached and exposed; and the inspector

who had his attention drawn to by the Cossack who discovered

    (in 1749), took care to ascertain by careful examination that
there was no trace of mining or smelting operations in the

neighbourhood.

380 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

     As the mass had been removed to Petersburg and other

Iplaces (indeed believe there is hardly any considerable mineral

collection in Europe which does not possess a specimen of it,)

I could not understand why my companion Mono should feel

so strong an interest in seeing the spot where it fell. That

his interest in the result however was intense was manifest as

we drew nearer and nearer to the place. His whole frame was

agitated in the most violent degree; and his utterances to himself

were deep and passionate, though they no longer seemed to be

Iin the language in which he and had conversed. We found

the hill designated by Pallas, and though the designation of

the locality was too vague. to. guide us to the exact spot, yet

I thought it not unlikely that we might determine the place

with precision, by finding in. the neighbourhood some fragments

of the transparent mineral--olivine or peridot, the mineralogists
have called it--which was found in the cavities of the cellular

iron mass, and of which some globules remain in. the existing

specimens, while others have fallen out loose. On my suggesting
this to Mono he responded with vehemence--"Yes, yes find me

some of the minerals which have come in company with the

iron mass, and you will make me supremely happy." Though

Isomewhat surprized at this vehemence, sought about with great

industry ; at last, in a small plain near the `top of the mountain,

I saw a deep cavity such as might have been made by digging.

The sides of this cavity. had recovered from all trace of the

violence which had produced  it,and. were already grass-grown

or moss-grown; but    might still be the indentation in theII
         a

                  it
surface which had been made by a large mass falling with a

great velocity hundred years ago.     sought with the most

careful scrutiny the sides of this cavity; and sure enough,  I

did find some. grains of a transparent glassy substance exactly

resembling the grains of olivine which had seen in the cabinets

of mineralogists.   exclaimed to my companion: "Here without
       is
          :" is

                 I
doubt,    the place where the stone fell: here are grains of
olivine  he cried out with extreme vehemence: " Hal olivine!--

that well. But asbestos? do you find no asbestos? Look
Ifwell in the neighbourhood of the place.
                                           you can find

                FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.     381

I Iasbestos, may be happy.    may no longer be a desolate solitary
I Iexile.
         may once more see my beloved brother.  may once
Imore have some one with whom
                               can speak of my beloved
I Ihome: which alas shall never see more."
                                            was altogether

at a loss to conceive how these consequences could be connected

Iwith our finding asbestos in this place; but sought with as
Imuch diligence as if had seen a reason for this examination.
I was obliged to announce to Mono, however, that though
I Ifound many more grains of olivine, could discover nothing
                Mono seemed to acquiesce in this as if the
like asbestos.

opposite result had been a greater good fortune than he could

reasonably expect. " No," he said. "It was not to be hoped ! the

chances were _too much against my finding the place where he

fell. And if this had been the place, so great a quantity of

asbestos could not have disappeared. There must have remained

fragments of the cords and of the sheets which were used.
INo--my last hope is gone.
                              shall never see my brother again 1"

These exclamations, and this apprehension of consequences,

utterly perplexed me. What connexion there could be between

our finding masses, or, as he said, ropes and sheets of asbestos,
Ithere, and his seeing a brother again,
                                         could not conceive.

But whatever might be doubtful, Mono's grief was real and

profound. He lay on the ground in a state of the most abject

despondency and despair; sighs and groans bursting at intervals

from his breast, and his noble head buried in his delicate hands.
IDuring our intercourse
                         had really come to be exceedingly

fond of my companion, and to think very highly both of his
Iintellect and of his heart.
                              was desirous of consoling him, so
Ifar as it might be possible to do so; but unless knew something

Imore of the circumstances to which he referred, no attempt
at consolation was possible.  ventured to enquire therefore

how it was that he saw in the circumstances of our new
Idiscovery anything to call forth such grief as he shewed.
"Isaid:
         have seen enough of you, my dear Mono, to be

convinced that there is reason and right feeling in your present
emotions. But they are to me so incomprehensible, with my

Ipresent knowledge of your condition and history, that cannot

382 FROM THE MOON To THE EARTH.

Ifattempt either to comfort or to help you.  you would confide

to me the story of the misfortunes which you lament, you would

at least have a most sympathizing listener. Whether you would

I Ihave a helpful friend, cannot tell till hear what you need:

but at least no endeavour of mine would be wanting: this at

Ileast trust you will believe."

This address seemed to soothe him a little, and he said

Iin the solemn'tone which he sometimes assumed: "Child of

Earth, thank you for your sympathy. From you--from any

one now--there can be to me no comfort and no help. But

to creatures whose happiness depends in any degree on sympathy

----and mine does so no less than yours--it is something--it is

a softening of irremediable ills--to have drawn forth the

sympathy of a being so far removed in origin and nature as you

Iare from me; speak not to disparage you in comparison with

myself. But there is a vast and strange distance between your

origin and your nature and mine: a distance so strange that you

have never known or suspected the like, and even now `I doubt
Iwhether shall, by revealing it to you, run the risk of awakening
Iyour incredulity, and if
                           do not do that, of turning your

sympathy into repugnance; for what sympathy could you feel

with a being of another species; a monkey for example? And

as for your disbelieving my story--I feel that however confidingly

Iyou may now feel towards me, what could tell you, and must

tell you to enable you to understand my misery, would go beyond

the limits of the belief which you are willing to accord to me."

   I replied: "Do not doubt me so much. As for your differ

ence of origin and nature, it cannot be of such a kind as to

Idisturb the admiration and affection which feel for you. After
Iwhat have seen, if your modesty will allow me to speak so,
Iof your clearness of intellect and goodness of disposition, if were

Ito think that you could be of a different species from myself
   should incline rather to suppose you of a higher than of a

lower nature. And as for the incredible nature of your story--

Iwhat can you tell me so strange that shall not believe it?

What regions of the earth have you traversed ? \Vith what adven

tures? With what sufferings? You speak of a brother whom_

           FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.             383

you have loved, and whom you have now had reasons for

despairing of finding. When did you leave him and how? Tell

me something of him. When did you see him last? How did

you part from him i"

Mono appeared deeply agitated and almost convulsed at
"Ithese questions of mine. He said:
                                     shall task your confidence
I Iin vain if tell you. It is better that should die here upon
Ithis earth, as must die, without alienating the heart of the

creature who has been more a friend to me than any other child
I Iof earth. Ask me when
                         last saw my brother. Shall
I I -venture to utter it to you? \Vhy should not?
                                                 can at this

moment point out to you ---so that you can see it the place

where that parting took place, though it is a place where you
will never come, and where I, alas! shall never be again. Will

you believe me if I really show to you that fatal spot where my

beloved brother left me. He ardent in the pursuit of know

ledge, fearless of danger, entered upon a voyage such as you

have never conceived. I, devoted to him, resolved to try to
Irejoin him or to perish in the attempt.
                                          can see the region

--the very spot--where this tragedy took place; tragedy as it
Inow seems to me--a gay and hopeful adventure as
                                                   then

thought it. Then 0 then, brother beloved, was the greatness of

Iyour character seen! Then it was that last saw your dear

form! Never alas, now to be seen again by me."

I IAs he said this he gazed steadfastly and intensely at the
moon which was shining 'above us.    confess that was in no

small degree bewildered. That he had parted with his brother

Iin the moon, literally and physically speaking, did not occur to
me as a rational story.  supposed, in spite of the direct and

positive expressions which he used, that this was some figurative

mode of speaking :--that he had made some sentimental parting

by the light of the moon, as lovers and as friends sometimes

Iuse to do; and that this was what, in his phrase, he meant to
describe.  said to him,

"It is true, Mono, that the moon shines alike on all parts of

the surface of the earth; and your brother, if he be alive, may

at this moment he gazing upon it as we are, and thinking as

384 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

you are of the moment when you parted from him init          light.
                                                        its
But meant to ask you to determine the place of your parting
on the surface of the earth. In what region did take place?
In Europe, Asia, Africa or America? What countryman are

you? If you have no objection to give me some insight into
I
                            would be a great pleasure to me to know
                      a it
your past history,

something of the country and travels of one. for whom have
                                                   I
conceived so great regard." He replied:
                                                        it

                                                         I
"My friend, you must take my words literally, strange as
they may seem to you. It
                                not without a struggle that
                             is
have resolved to impart to you my history wonderful as       is.
                               II
Do not let me have the additional pain of finding you disbe

lieve or misunderstand me when tell it. You ask me from

what country am--l am from the moon.      I  am a native of
I
    I

        I
            I

               I
the orb which you see yonder in the sky. There was born.
                                                   I

From thence did come. There did    part with that dear brother
whom alas! shall never more see."                                                   '

       still could not believe that a sane man, as Mono seemed,

was telling me seriously and gravely that he came from the

moon.  tried to find some figurative interpretation of a state

ment which seemed so absurd. But thought  it  best to learn
                             I
                                       I
what this figurative meaning might be, by urging upon my

companion the absurdities which were involved in the literal

signification of his words.  was not without a suspicion that

Mono, intelligent and even wise as he appeared to be on other

subjects, might be a monomaniac labouring under a delusion on

this point. So said:
       I
             I
     "And so you really come from the moon, Mono! But you
will not wonder that find difficulty in believing this. You
                             a

know the vast difficulties which a voyage from the moon hithera
must involve. How did you overcome them? How were you
conveyed from thence to this earth? How did you acquire

velocity sufficient to carry you hither? How did you survive

the shock which must have taken place when this great velocity

was given to you. It must have been you know a more violent

shock than that of a person shot from the mouth of a cannon.

How did you survive the still greater shock of falling upon this

FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.                                     385

earth at the end of such a flight? How were you supplied
Ifwith air to breathe during your flight?
                                           you consider that these

and other points of difficulty naturally offer themselves to my

Imind, you will not wonder that have some scruples about

the truth of your account."

   IMono smiled sadly and said: " Of course it is fit that should

Isatisfy you on these points, and when resolved to impart to you
Imy origin, made up my mind to give you information on all

these points. But my narrative will necessarily be of some length,

and will involve many matters which you do not know, and which
Iyou must accept on my credit.
                                must beg of you, therefore, to

give me a patient and candid hearing; and when you have

Itaken into your mind the general outline of what have to tell
Iyou shall be glad to answer any questions of detail which my

general narrative may suggest. Listen, then, to the tale of a

Native of the Moon."

You know from your astronomical calculations, that the hemi

sphere of the moon which is turned from the earth, and is always

invisible to you terrestrials, is a cavity twenty miles deep. This

cavity is filled with air, so that it can be occupied and in fact is
occupied, by creatures not much different from the men who in--

Ihabit this earth, of whom am one. You will easily understand

that the surface of this hemisphere thus depressed below the

remaining surface of the moon appears to us, the inhabitants, to

be surrounded by a ring of mountains twenty miles higher. These

mountains like your highest mountains on the earth's surface, rise

into regions of great cold, and then, like your terrestrial moun--

tains, are clothed with perpetual frost and snow. Each hemisphere

of the earth, the northern and the southern, may be considered as

a circular region of warmer temperature, with a pole of cold, and

a region of ice and snow in its centre ; the outside hemisphere of

our moon on the contrary is a circular region of warmer tempera

ture surrounded by a border of mountains of ice and snow, to which

your Alps are hillocks, and by a degree of cold to which your

polar cold is moderate. For not only does our ring of mountains

rise into the region of perpetual ice and snow, but far beyond  it,

into a region where our atmosphere ends, and of course the ice and

w. 25

386 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

the snow end with it. The atmosphere does not rise so high as the
tops of our mountain border. And accordingly your astronomers

have ascertained that beyond that border, on the side of the moon

visible from the earth, there is no air, no water, no ice, no snow.

                                it,
                                       it,

                                                                                                    a
The surface is as your telescopes show a surface in the condition
in which its igneous origin has left it--a vast volcanic region;

one of your writers has called  not without some reason,

huge cinder.

' Wonderful    the contrast between the blank, burnt up, cin
I
         isderlike, desolate, airless, side of the moon which alone visible
             is                 I
                                          I
                                                 I

                                                                    is

                                                                                           by
to the inhabitants of the earth, and the other side of the moon,

with its varied surface covered with vegetable life and tenanted
animals and by moon-men: for by that name think may best

describe to you the race to which belong, approaching so near

as we do in our nature to you human beings on this earth.

Wonderful say the contrast between the death on that side

and the life on the other side. We may call them for brevity

the dead and the living sides of the moon. On the living side we

have as you have, hills and dales, rivers and valleys, clouds and

showers, and indeed all the variety which you have on the earth;

except that inasmuch as the moon's axis very slightly oblique to
                                is
the ecliptic instead of being greatly oblique as the earth's axisisof is,

we have no difference of climates corresponding to your tropical
and polar: the whole surface with us in the temperate region.
But while we have all these beautiful things on the living side

the moon, there on the other side an object more striking thanis
all these; namely, your earth, hanging constantly in the sky, so
much larger than our moon in your sky, and constantly keepingis
the same place--vertically over the centre of the dead side
                                                                   of

the moon,---resting upon the horizon or slowly heaving there, to

those that live among the border mountains, and changing its

phases month by month, as our moon does to your eyes.
     You have yourself studied this matter, and have described the

appearance which your earth presents to the inhabitants of various
parts of the moon and your account so exact that need not
add anything to nor dwell upon the subject.

     But there remains this to be added. You have described the
              it
                  ;
                                                     is
                                                I

FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.             387

it,appearances which would be seen by the inhabitants of the hither

   aside of the moon, if there were any inhabitants. But this is the
dead side of the moon. There are there no inhabitants. In that
                                    it
airless region they cannot live.

   IHow then, you may ask, do presume to confirm, as a witness

to the facts, the inferences which you have drawn from astro
nomical theory?

   ITo answer this, must give you a portion of the history of us

moon-men. We, like you, have cultivated astronomy with great

success. Ages ago our astronomers (inhabiting the living side of
our moon) had made out the motion of the body on which they
lived. At first as with you, the ancient astronomers had held

that the moon which they inhabited was fixed and immovable, and

that the sun revolved round bringing to us our day and night

of 30 of your days. It was held that the sun moved in a circle

round the moon, in the course of a year: and then was dis
covered that the path was not circle but an ellipse (for we, like
you and before you, had our science of conic sections,) and the

excentricity of the elliPse and the position of the axis were made
out by means of instrumental observations of the sun, and the
laws of the elliptic motion were determined. But when instru

mental observation became more exact, an irregularity or rather a

regular inequality of the sun's motion was determined. It was

found that when allowance had been made for the elliptical motion
of the sun, there remained still to be accounted for an oscillatory

motion of the luminary of which each oscillation occupied one of
our days. The sun, besides his regular motion in his orbit,

was found to go back and forwards during each day by about
one-third of a degree before and behind his mean place. Of course

the obvious way to account for this, or rather the exposition of
the fact was that the sun revolved in a cycle round his mean place,

while the mean place was carried round the moon, the center, by

the elliptical motion.
     But in the course of time we had our Philolaus, our Copernicus,

as you had yours. A grave philosopher arose among us moon

men, and taking into account the motions of the planets, which

we had for centuries carefully observed, taught us how much more

                                                                                        25--2

388 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

simple it would be to suppose that all the planets, and our moon
among them, revolved about the sun, each in its elliptical orbit,

than to ascribe the motion to the planets about the sun, and the

sun about the moon, as we had been accustomed to do.

   I must say to the credit of us moon-men, that this heliocentric

system was introduced among us with far less of struggle, anger,
and persecution than it had to make its way through among you

I Iterrestrials. Indeed, think may say in general that we are of a

Imore philosophical character than you are.  But of this perhaps
   may speak hereafter.

But the sun being thus at rest, and our moon and the planets

revolving round him, what did our astronomers say of that daily

cycle (daily according to our moon days) which they had dis

covered in his motion?

Plainly on the heliocentric system this must now be ascribed

to the moon herself. Instead of the sun going backwards and

forwards every 30 (terrestrial) days the moon must now go back
wards and forwards every 30 days. Instead of the sun being

carried by a cycle, in addition to his elliptical motion, the mom

must be carried by a cycle in addition to her elliptical motion.

The observations would be accounted for if the moon, besides her

elliptical motion round the sun, revolved in a circle of which the

radius was about one two-hundredth of her distance from the sun.

This was a very curious astronbmical discovery. Strange that

the moon should thus g0 pirouetting round the sun, instead of

following her elliptical path tranquilly and steadily. For many years

there were persons who refused to believe in this pirouette motion.
They said it was inconsistent with the grave and orderly character

of our mother moon. They said that an irregularity of a third of

a degree might be an error of our instruments, and the like.
But the doctrine that our moon moved in a cycle about our mean

place gained ground more and more.
    And as our instrumental observations became more exact, it

was found that along with the change of place of the sun by this

backward and forward motion, there was also a very slight change

of his apparent diameter, such as would arise from his being

nearer and further off alternately by about one two-hundredth of

FROM THE MOON To THE EARTH.  389

his distance, or by the moon being nearer to and further from the
sun by the same fraction of the distance.

     This was of course confirmation, or rather demonstration, that

the moon not only had an oscillatory motion, but that she had a
circular motion round the point which described an ellipse about
the sun. This was a capital discovery, and deservedly immortal

ized among us the moon-man who made it.
     Of course this discovery may seem to you an obvious one, for

you see at once that this circular motion of the moon is her
motion round the earth. But you are to recollect that our astro

Inomers lived on the other side of the moon and never saw the earth:

and think it was very much to their credit to have thus divined _

its existence from astronomical phenomena. It was a step very

like what happened among you terrestrial astronomers, when your
Adams and Leverrier divined the existence of Neptune by feeling
his operation upon the interior planet.

     But in truth our moon-men astronomers did not, at least
for a long time, exactly divine the existence of the Earth. What
they did infer was, that in the direction of the diameter of the

moon passing through the middle of the inhabited surface, there
was a point round which the moon revolved once in a lunar day,
this point being carried round the sun in an elliptical orbit.

    But this point--what was it? A mere geometrical point for

the moon to revolve about? This was a strange hypothesis, yet

no other suggested itself.

    Of course our astronomers knew that if they could travel

beyond the border mountains of the living side of the moon,
they would come within sight of this point round which the moon
revolved in her cycle. But the inaccessibility of that region
was too well established to be doubted for a moment. Even to

climb the mountains covered with ice and snow, which are the

first steps of that vast stair, was an undertaking which tasked
the utmost powers of our moon-men. We had our lovers of
mountains, like your Alpine club-men; and they had scaled
many of the summits in every quarter of the border. But when
they came to the limit of our atmosphere, and of course far

below that, their powers of proceeding higher were exhausted.

390 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

They were obliged to give up as desperate all hope of crossing the

horizon to the other side. Yet if they could achieve this what

discoveries awaited them! This they well knew, though they

did not guess the full glories of the spectacle which awaited

them there.

This then was the problem which our moon-philosophers long

had before them, as interesting in the highest degree and on

many accounts :---to find some means of travelling on the dead
Ifside of our moon.
                     this problem could be solved, some great

astronomical discovery must follow in its train, and probably

discoveries in several other of our sciences.

     For we had other sciences as well as astronomy, and in some

of these we had gone further than you have yet gone. At least

there was one discovery which our chemists made, which enabled

Ius to solve the problem which have mentioned, and thus enabled

me to come hither, and to have the pleasure of making your

Iacquaintance. This must explain to you, for it is really the

turning point of my narrative.

     You heard me inquiring whether you saw any asbestos in
the neighbourhood where this meteoric stone fell. In fact the

Isubstance which would fain have seen here is not the same

substance as your terrestrial asbestos, but it resembles it so much

in appearance that you would have supposed it to be that mineral.

But our asbestos has very peculiar properties, which make it

Iinvaluable for the purpose of which am speaking. One kind

of it is of a spongy texture, and in fact very like a fine sponge,

and has this property, as one of our great chemists in a happy

moment discovered; the spongy mass absorbs and retains the

vital part of atmospheric air with such energy, that a small bunch

  of it applied to the mouth and nose enables us to breathe in a

'

  vacuum for some hours. When this great discovery was made,

our mountain travellers were not slow in turning it to account

for their purposes. With their heads wrapped in large masses of

this spongy substance, holes being left for their eyes only, they

mounted many thousands of feet higher than they had ever

done before. They mounted in fact far above the regions of per

petual snow and ice; they ascended even into the airless space

FROM THE' MOON TO THE EARTH.                                    391

above the surface of the atmosphere. And they soon proceeded

to do this in a progressive and systematic manner. They esta

blished depots of this vital-asbestos, at stations successively a

few thousand feet above each other, and by this means in a few

years they ascended to the horizon of the moon's hither surface

and came in view of your earth.

    It was an ancestor of my own, named Tisiri, who had the

privilege of making this discovery, the greatest event in our

Ilunar history, and think, the greatest and most striking scientific

Idiscovery ever made by any inhabitant of the solar system. This

  think you will allow if you consider for a moment. For no

discovery of a new star, nor even of a comet, whose tail stretches

across the sky, even if we were to come suddenly upon           it,can at
                                                                            by
all compare with the discovery of a luminary thirteen times as

large as the moon  to you: and then this discovery was made,
a
         is
not by increasing the power of vision by optical means, but

climbing into region previously inaccessible, where the heavenly

body so discovered was as manifest as the sun in the sky. You
                                                    is

may try to conceive my ancestOr's feelings when, climbing the last

ridge of the boundary mountains, he saw resting, as seemed,
                                                        it

upon the mountains of the opposite horizon this vast luminous

orb: for so happened that at that time the earth was at full, as
it
                                          her whole disk was enlightened.
                                     is,
you say of the moon: that

Tisiri, in his travels which he wrote and which we possess in our

family, gives vent to his feelings in the most rapturous language.

"I saw," he says, "that mysterious center which we had long felt, as

an invisible power, shaping and controlling the movements of our

planet, expanded before my eyes into a vast luminous orb, vying

in splendour with the sun and far larger than he. Considering

how vast an influence this orb exerts upon our world was dis
I
                                           it,
                                                           it,

                                               it I
posed to fall down and worship            but better thoughts prevailed,

and knelt down and thanked him who made both and our

planet, for having permitted me to see    first of moon--men, and

to disclose its existence to my fellow-creatures."

After Tisiri's great discovery, the knowledge which my fellow

moon-men acquired of the dead side of our moon, gradually but

rapidly expanded. Depots of vital-asbestos were established at

392    FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

various points, and roads constructed from place to place over the

volcanic soil, till at last the whole was explored. You know the

surface of our moon as it has been mapped and named by your,
Iastronomers; and therefore
                               may say to you that the point

where my ancestor first made his way to the hither hemisphere

was on the right border as it appears to you, near the ring-formed

mountain which has been called Cleomedes. From this point our

explorers travelled by the two expanses which you have named

Mare Crisium and Mare Tranquillitatis (for the flat spaces which
you have called seas in the moon are much the easiest for our

travelling), and then still further south by the Mare Nectaris till

they came into the region where vast diverging ridges, proceeding

from the crater Eratosthenes, occupy nearly a third of our moon's

disk to your eyes. This series of discoveries which our travellers

made on this dead side of the moon--the struggles by which they

made their way from point to point and solved problem after

problem, resembled in many ways the history of your Arctic

discoveries. And you must recollect that not only had our dis

Icoverers to winter, if may call it so, that is to spend many months

in regions of cold much more intense than that of your poles,

but also to live there without air, except what they carried with

them as they did other food. However in the end the task was

finished, as seen in its general features ; and we have our maps of

that side of our moon, which of course closely resemble your best

lunar maps, those by Madler and Beer, though they contain many

particulars which your astronomers had no means of discovering.
     There however, one discovery which your astronomers made,
I

                   is,
                      is,

              I
and then, as seems to me, let  slip away from them again.
                               it
must dwell upon this because      is it          matter intimately con

                                        is
                                              a
nected with my history, and indeed the means of my being now

with you here upon this earth. Upon the dead side of the moon,

which  as have said, and as you have guessed, a region

of extinct volcanic action, there are still few volcanoes still
                                                 Ia
active with long intermissions of their activity.     I  say that your

astronomers obtained view of this fact and then allowed    itto
                           a
                                                                of
slip away from them again: for at present, think, they none

them hold the existence of active volcanoes in the moon. Yet

FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.            393

Ulloa on his journey to measure a degree of latitude in Peru saw

a volcano on the moon's surface during a total eclipse of the sun

I(Chladni, p. 415). [I do not' know to what book reference is here

made; Ulloa's observation belongs, think, to a much later date

than his labours in Peru] Herschel saw one, as he tells us in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1787. Piazzi saw one in 1803.

Schroter several times saw appearances in the moon which proved

the fact. On the 28th of September, 1788, he saw on the border

of the Mare Imbm'um a luminous appearance, and soon afterwards,

on the 12th of October, he saw a new crater. And again between

Jan. 7 and April 5, 1789, according to his observations, two new

craters had appeared within a circuit of eight miles. These
Iobservations demand far more notice,
                                       may say more credit,

than they have obtained. Our discoverers found active volcanoes,

Ithough, as have said, very intermittent in their action, and

these they carefully studied.

     They found that some of these intermittent volcanoes have a
considerable regularity in their action, and make their eruptions

at fixed intervals, so that the eruption can be foreseen and reck--

oned upon. In particular, near the center of the moon's volcanic

disk there is a smooth plain which your selenographers have

called Sinus Estuum, and rising from this plain is a ring-formed

crater. This crater was found to make its eruptions at intervals,

for some years at least, of once in five of our days (your months).
These eruptions were observed with great care by our philoso

phers; the matters ejected were observed with instruments con

structed for the purpose, and followed by the eye as far as they

could be seen. The velocity with which they were projected

was so great that they went off into space and returned no more.

You must recollect that there is no air to impede their motions, as

there is in your terrestrial volcanoes: so that even small masses,

cinders and ashes, thus projected, went away and returned no
more to the surface of our planet. But moreover our observers

discovered that along with smaller masses, there were ejected

larger ones; also it seemed, in a. certain order. Every seventh

eruption a large mass was observed to proceed from the crater and

to mount up into the zenith till it disappeared from their vision.

394 FROM THE MOON To THE EARTH.

That these masses were metallic and consisted in a great measure
of iron, they judged from an examination of fragments which flew

out obliquely with a smaller velocity and fell to the ground at a.
small distance from the volcano.

   IThis working of the central crater was observed, as have

said, for several years, till there was no doubt of the fact in our
minds. And then a new train of thought suggested itself. As
this crater was near the middle of the side of our moon which
turned towards the earth, the earth-luminary was always in or

near the zenith of the place where these eruptions took place.

ISeeing, as we saw (for have taken part in these observations),

masses shoot vertically upwards from the crater, they seemed to
be shot at the earth, and to have a good chance of hitting it.
Our mathematicians, who are at least as skilful as yours, found
means of calculating the velocity of these masses; and as they
ascertained by this means that they would ascend to a height of
a thousand diameters of our moon before losing all their velocity,
they inferred as probable that they would reach the earth. They
had not at that time determined the relative attractive power of
the moon and the earth. Your astronomers, who have done this,

know that the earth being above 60 times as great as the
moon in attractive power, the neutral point at which the attrac
tions balance each other is about one eighth from the moon of

the whole distance, that is about 30,000 of your miles: and if a

body projected from the moon were to rise so high as this above
the surface it would from that point fall to the earth by its

Igravity. We were not, think, quite so much in a state of clear

knowledge as you are: but we thought it in the highest degree
probable that many of the masses thus emitted by-our central
volcano would reach the earth.

   IAnd now must tell you of the wonderful use which we made
Iof this portion of our knowledge; and you will then allow think

that though you deservedly admire the boldness of the designs of
your own engineers, and their skill in accomplishing them, the

performances of our engineers far surpass them. It was sug
gested by one of our clever moon-men that if a vast sheet were

spread across the aperture in the volcanic crater from which the

              FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.                         395

masses were ejected, it would be carried away by the eruption,

and if a rope were attached to   if       might be made the means of

                                    it,
                                        it
catching the ejected mass; and materials and powers sufficiently
strong could be devised, of drawing back. As to the materials

the difficulty was overcome. Our invaluable aid the asbestos,

capable as  it       of resisting fire, was found to be applicable also

                 is

to this purpose. Another sort than the spongy kind which was

the vehicle of our breathing air, and which have called vital
                                            I

asbestos--a fibrous asbestos--was found capable of being spun and

then woven into sheets of vast extent and strength. It was a

memorable day when one of these sheets was laid across the

orifice of the volcano a little before the time when, as we knew,

the ejection of large solid mass might be confidently expected.

A rope of many miles in length was laid on the ground, attached
to

                              a
this sheet, and coiled so as readily to uncoil when the pro

 jectile flew upwards, after the manner of the ropes which are

_

 thrown over a wreck by a gun, in the apparatus often used on

your coasts.         was present at this memorable experiment; and
I
     I
well do remember the event. When the time came the well

known thunder of the volcano was heard rumbling deep in the

heart of the mountain. The explosion took place, the sheet

rushed into the air [but by supposition there was no air on this

side of the moon] so rapidly that           was soon scarcely visible,
                                          it
                                                              it
and the rope was uncoiled with a mad impetuosity. The end of

the rope had been loaded with heavy weights; and was thought

possible that these might be sufficient to retard and'finally to

draw back the projected mass. Our philosophers and chemists
wished greatly to have such an opportunity of examining it. But

   the experiment, so far as this purpose went, was utterly defeated.
' As soon as the rope was uncoiled so far by the upward flight of

the projectile that there came to be a strain upon the weights

with which was loaded,             snapt in an instant, the weights
it
        it
                               it
which had scarcely raised falling back to the ground, and the

projectile enveloped in its sheet soaring instantly out of sight.

This experiment was several times repeated but always with the

same want of success for the principal purpose.

But though we could not pull the volcanic projectile back

396 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

when it had once set out upon its journey, we found that we

could, by making the rope stronger, compel the projectile to carry
with it the weights with which we loaded the cord, like the tags

on the tail of a kite. This we completely succeeded in doing,

Iand several projectiles thus loaded have seen soaring up to the

zenith and disappearing there, as you may have seen a balloon;

although the immense velocity with which our volcanic projectile

went upwards, makes the resemblance, in the outset at least, not

very close.

   IAs have said, it was a question with us whether the projec

tile, which we thus sent upward, would go to your earth or not.
As your earth-luminary was in the zenith of our volcano, and as

you know, subtended an angle of two degrees, all these projectiles

seemed to go to the earth. They entered within its visible disk

before they finally disappeared. Hence the prevalent opinion
among us certainly was that they did go to the earth. And

various were the proposals made among our philosophers, that

having this means of sending to you what we had, we should

impart to you some of our knowledge: send you geometrical

Idiagrams, or some objects which might awake in you some intel
lectual sympathy.  believe some of our wise men did expedite
I Ito you some such objects; but have never, since have been on

the earth, been able to hear that any of them have come to hand

---have been found by any inhabitant of the earth and noticed as
something difi'erent from a rude metallic mass. Of course we

were aware that it would be far more difficult for you to send
anything to us than for us to send objects to you, even if the

material means were the same; since the force with which objects
must be projected must be much greater in your case, in conse

quence of the greater attractive power of the earth, which makes
it so much more difficult for projectiles to leave it.

     But the interest belonging to such projects of communication
between our Moon and your Earth was quite extinguished by the

Ipromulgation of a grand and daring project of my noble and
lamented brother.  have said that we had repeatedly seen our

volcanic projectiles, with various masses attached to their tails,

Soaring into the zenith like balloons, and disappearing only when

FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.                                         397

within the visible disk of the earth. My brother dared to con

ceive the possibility of using these projectiles as your Mr Glaisher

uses your balloons; of ascending in, or rather attached to, one of

them, and in this way actually and bodily visiting your earth.

Of course the difficulties belonging to such a scheme are mani

fest and most formidable. You mentioned some of them when

you provoked me to give you this account of myself. How was
the traveller through the void space to be supplied with air?

But this problem had already been solved by the discovery of

our vital-asbestos; and this material only required, for a longer

journey, to be supplied on a larger scale. The whole body of the

traveller must be wrapped in   instead of his head only. How
                               it,

                                         I

                                                         a

                                                                it
was the traveller in leaving the surface of our moon to be secured

from injury by the intense shock which he must receive on being

thus lifted from the surface? This difficulty could,                was con

ceived, be overcome by an improved method of coiling the rope so

that the velocity should be communicated to the traveller, not by

a single shock, but by degrees. This you, know, are engineer

enough easily to see to be possible. How was the traveller to

bear the shock of falling down with so great velocity upon the

earth? This too, was conceived, could be provided for by our
it
             a itunfailing aid asbestos. The great mass of this spongy material

in which the traveller was to be enveloped, amounting in size to

one of your ordinary haystacks, would, was hoped, break the
                               it
                                                 it
shock of his fall and make harmless. There seemed to be no

insurmountable physical obstacle to the execution of this plan,
                                                                    '
bold as seemed.

My brother conceived this plan in his mind and proceeded by

calculations and experiments to prove that was, as have said,
physically possible. He himself made contrivance by which he
                                  a                  I

                                        it

was enveloped in large mass of the spongy asbestos, was precipi

tated from a great height with very great velocity upon the
                               a

ground, and in this experiment he received no injury. The con-_
trivance by which the velocity was gradually communicated to the

masses which the volcanic projectiles carried with them was, as

have said, matter of engineering, and was entirely successful.
I

                            a

The vital asbestos was, by various chemical applications, made

398 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

capable of supplying the traveller with nutriment, as well as with

Irespirable air. It was argued by him, and with great truth, as
   afterwards found by personal experience, that when the great
velocity was once acquired, the traveller moving through a space
without resistance, with a velocity changing by slow degrees,
would feel no more shock or shake, than a traveller in one of

your rapid railway trains; indeed far less: for there would be no
jar of wheels or oscillation of springs, or winds or showers or dust.
The voyager through blank space would move smoothly on with
no more consciousness of motion than the inhabitant of our planet
or of yours has of his motion round the sun. My brother was
enthusiastic and impressive in explaining to our moon-men how

Ismooth and untroubled the motion would be ; and, as have said,

he had proved by experiments that the arrival at your earth and
the falling upon `it might be accomplished without any violent
destructive shock. He invited in the most passionate manner
some scientific adventurer to undertake, by this means, avoyage
to your earth, promising him an easy passage and a safe arrival.

     But it was not easy to find any one whose enthusiasm would
go to the length of undertaking such a voyage. Indeed this you
cannot consider wonderful, if you consider what the consequences
would be. The explorer of the region to which he was thus invited
must be regarded as leaving for ever his native home. There was
no chance of returning: for though some persons held that the
inhabitants of your earth, inasmuch as it was greatly larger than
our moon, could probably have surpassed us in their engineering
skill and would be able to send him back, the greater part of our
moon-philosophers held that this was not at all likely, and that
once arrived there, even if uninjured, he would never be likely to

return. It was not the adventure of an explorer who is to return

and reap his harvest of glory among his countrymen, but the
desperate venture of a person who must depart at once and for
ever, with no prospect of consolation except his joy in the know

ledge which he would himself acquire. It was not wonderful that

my brother found no one to venture upon this forlorn hope.
      Long and long did he urge the claims of this avenue to new

knowledge upon the lovers of knowledge among us. He made

FROM THE moon TO THE EARTH.                              399

many speculative converts to the belief in the success of his plans,

such success as he promised, but no practical believer, who would
Ifundertake the adventure. The retort was very obvious.
                                                         you

think it so important that some one should go, why do you not go

yourself? And in truth this retort had no small force, for besides

that my brother was of all moon-men the most deeply impressed
with the conviction of the possibility and importance of this

scheme, he had fewer ties than most of them to prevent his
undertaking it himself. We--he and I--were a good deal alone
in our world. Our parents were dead, and we were neither

of us married. It is true he had numerous admiring friends

who looked upon him with a sort of enthusiasm on account of his

knowledge, accomplishments, and the vigour of his character;

and with some of them a final parting would be `very sorrowful:
but when he had once propounded his scheme of a voyage to the
earth-luminary, and had so confidently shown that it was pos
sible, some of them began to look at his carrying it into effect

with complacency, as his proper destiny; and were prepared to

regard his removal from among them as a sort of apotheosis,
which would leave a recollection of him as something above moon
manhood. And as he was really full of courage and an ardent
lover of knowledge, these aspirations at length took possession of
him also, and he resolved to carry into efl'ect his own plan of an

earth voyage.
     The preparations were made in the most complete manner and

on the most ample scale. We reckoned that the voyage to the
earth would occupy about one-third of one of our days, ten of your

days. The mass of vital--asbestos which was prepared, which, as

I have said, supplied the traveller with nutriment as well as with

air to breathe, was such as would suffice for a hundred of your

days, though it seemed scarcely possible that more than ten days
supply would be needed: for if the voyage was successful, he

must reach the earth in that time. A few hours more or less, in

consequence of the possible error of our calculations, was all the
difference which could occur. If, indeed, the projectile discharged

from our volcano should miss the earth altogether, the prospect was

very awful. The traveller must go moving on through the cosmical

400 FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.

spaces between the planets, carried by the meteoric mass to which

he was attached, and without any chance of coming to a resting

place. He must in that case needs perish. by famine; and his
body must go revolving round the earth as long as its substance
should endure. But we did not much dwell in our thoughts on

this possibility; we were confident in our calculations, and thought

we could not fail to hit the earth. On what part of the earth,

indeed, the traveller from our moon might fall, we could not

venture to predict. We were aware of the possibility of his falling

into water; for in our planet too there is water; and we could see

Ithe earth, as have told you, with suflficient clearness to judge

that its surface was partly solid and partly fluid. But the asbestos
mass had in it contrivances by which the voyager, if he fell into

an expanse of water, would float and would be enabled to reach

the shore.

Deeply engraved in my memory is the day when my brother

having made all preparations for his voyage, entered his asbestos

chariot and waited for the predicted hour of the volcanic ex

plosion. The well-known thunder was heard beneath the ground;
the explosion came; the sheet which lay across the orifice was

lifted up and carried towards the zenith with immense velocity,

and rapidly diminished in visible size as it rose. The connecting
rope which drew the asbestos car gradually communicated to it its

velocity. It moved at first slowly, but rapidly rushed into greater

speed, and was soon clear of the ground and mounting toward the
Itzenith, amid the breathless gaze of our moon people.
                                                        was soon

lost to our gaze, and certainly seemed to our eyes to have plainly
entered into the earth-disk. We could see it no longer. We saw
it no more. But just as it vanished in that disk, we saw some

thing--a small object--#falling, as it seemed from that point ver

tically downwards. This object fell not far from the place where
Itwe were who had witnessed the departure of the traveller.
                                                             was

picked up and was found to be a plate of lead, such as is commonly
used for writing on with a steel pen : upon this sheet of lead was
written, in my brother's well-known hand--

     ` To Mono. The travelling is pleasant. Success certain. Shall

I ever see you again 2 Makomo.'

              FROM THE MOON TO THE EARTH.               401

You may imagine how the feeling of awe which my brother's

departure had inspired in all of us was deepened by this commu

nication from him, after he had, as it were, entered upon another

world. To me it sounded like a summons to follow him, nor could

I Iget rid of that impression till obeyed it as you see; for you

see me here.

Of course we heard and saw no more of Makomo. The

philosophers, who had come from the living to the dead side of

the moon. to effect or to witness this great undertaking, returned
over the border to their usual abode on the living side of the

moon, and there of course we did not even see that part of the

sky into which we had seen Makomo enter. The grand orb of

the earth was then no longer visible.                   We
     My loss of my brother hung heavily upon my heart.

had lived and worked and speculated together, so that my life
Iwas utterly marred by losing him.
                                      could no longer work.
I could no longer speculate about anything except his fate.

vI could no longer think of anything except him. And the

sense of desolation which his removal left upon me was

augmented by my not being able in my usual habitation on

Ithe living side of the moon to see the orb which was, knew,
Ihis present abode. pined for the sight of the earth-luminary.
I made provision for mounting into the dead hemisphere.
I travelled thither, and wandered with a melancholy gratification

over that volcanic surface; having the earth-luminary shining

Iabove me, going through its various phases month by month.
   travelled over a large portion of the volcanic hemisphere, so

Ithat saw the earth-luminary in all those positions which you

have well described: slowly heaving in the horizon among the

mountains, steadfast in the zenith, or fixed no less in some
                        IBut ever as
intermediate position.                gazed on the luminary

my thoughts of my brother became deeper and deeper, more

Iand more impatient, and at last was quite overmastered by the

Idesire of following my brother, and, like him, seeing this earth.~

Such an act was like the suttee of widows which found prevailing

in India:--a resolution to follow where my beloved had gone
before. Like that, it was an expression of indomitable love--

W- 26

402 FROM THE MOON To THE EARTH.

in me, a motive most real, however often it may be otherwise

in the widow's case, but in my case, as in the widow's,

supported by a considerable force of public opinion; for many

Ipersons thought it was fit and graceful that should follow my

brother in that path which had been marked out by our
Itcommon speculations and our common decisions.
                                                 was, no

doubt, a sort of suicide; but it was a suicide which offered a

considerable probability of rejoining the beloved person whom
I Ihad lost. And
                  was haunted by the thought that his

volcanic car might have missed the earth, and that he might

be wandering on through the blank spaces of the universe, never

finding a resting-place. And though, if this were so, my following
him could not be of any use to him, it seemed to be a sort of

consolation to follow his fate whatever that might be; and at

any rate, such a course offered the Only chance of my ever seeing

him again.

These feelings impelled me and determined me to follow my
Ibrother to the earth.
                        adopted the same means which he had

used--the foreseen volcanic explosion; the asbestos sheet with

its appended cord; the vital asbestos provision for air and food;

the contrivances for departing and  arriving at the end without
Iviolence.                          worked by our best philoso
            had all this apparatus  voyage upwards amid the
Iphers, and
             set out upon my

acclamations of thousands of moon-men from the middle of- that

disk which you now see shining above us.

   I need not describe to you my sensations in rising from the
Imoon. You will easily conceive them. They were, as have

said, very nearly the same sensations as those which are expe

rienced by a traveller on a. very rapid railroad: the gradually

increasing velocity felt at first--the great velocity afterwards

acquired, which is even in railways almost insensible, became

more nearly insensible in my case, because there was no jolt
Ior resistance of any kind.
                             spun or rather glided through
Ispace, feeling as if were at rest. My breathing went on

tranquilly; my nutrition regularly; everything was provided

for in my apparatus. The principal inconvenience which

I experienced was from the sun which shone upon me in unbroken

FROM THE MOON To THE EARTH.                            403

and unintermitted splendour, with no shade from any solid mass

Ior any spreading cloud. It is true the pack of spongy asbestos

in which was enveloped protected me in a great measure from
the heat of the sun's rays as it did from the cold of the sur

Irounding vacant space:' but, as have said, the asbestos-pack had

two perforations for my eyes, and when the sun shone in at
them the light was blinding. You will easily conceive that

my asbestos did not move quite steadily without some angular
motion. By inevitable irregularity in its form and in the
impulse which it had received, .it had a motion of rotation;

and the axis of this rotation was of course the line which con

nected my pack with the volcanic projectile. About this line

Imy pack revolved, as conceive, about twice in each of your

days; and as my expedition was made, as you terrestrials
would say, at the end of the moon's first quarter, that is when

the line of sun and moon was nearly perpendicular to the sun's

distance, the sun's rays shone into my eye-holes during a portion

Iof each revolution. In this way had a sort of day and night

every six hours: for when the sun was at my back the stars On

the opposite side of the sky' were visible, there being no atmosphere

to carry the sun's light among them and extinguish them, as
Ithere is in the daytime of this your earth. And so
                                                       spun

Ion through the space which intervenes between you moon and

this earth, and, believe, reached the bounds of your atmosphere
I Iabout the twelfth day after left the moon.-
                                                had found no

inconvenience for want of sleep during this time, for, as you

Iknow, had always been accustomed to a day of thirty of your

days, and habitually worked for a fortnight and slept for a
Ifortnight. When arrived within the boundary of this your
Iterrestrial atmosphere, was made aware of the fact by a sudden
Iand considerable increase of temperature.
                                            suspect that the

outer parts of my pack of spongy asbestos became incandescent;

but the large porous mass which intervened between me and

the outside prevented my suffering from this, by intercepting
Ithe communication of heat:
                             have reason to believe too that

the volcanic' mass which carried me onwards became ignited

and fired on the outside. Such, as you know, is the condition

                                                26--2

404 FROM THE MOON To THE EARTH.

of most of the meteoric masses which have fallen to the earth.

But this operation, if it took place in the case of my vehicle,

I was from my position prevented from seeing.

Once arrived in your atmosphere, we rushed downwards

rapidly and, as a spectator would have thought, madly, but yet

the immense velocity with which we had travelled through

Iblank space was soon materially diminished by the resistances.

No doubt the velocity with which fell through the air was

very great; but, as you know, it was limited by the resistance

of the air and was very little afl'ected by the vast original velocity

Iwhich had carried me away from the moon.
     Through the air, then, fell for some fifty of your miles,
Ithe air becoming denser and denser, so that had soon no
Ioccasion for my vital-asbestos.
                                  came to the earth on a vast
Iplain in this Siberia, and found that the spongy mass of which

was the nucleus was quite effectual in preserving me from all

inconvenience arising from the shock of the fall.

Having thus fallen from the sky to the earth, like Vulcan
Iin the legend of your Greeks,
I Icould.                         collected myself as well as
           crept out of my envelope and found that I was
Inot even lame with my fall, as have since read Vulcan was.
I looked round me and gazed on the scenery; it appeared to
Ime not very unlike our living side of the moon; though if may
Iventure to say so, not so beautiful as ours.
                                                   saw habitations
Inear me, and hid myself behind trees that might see some of
I Ithe inhabitants before they saw me. When saw them was

much surprised to find them so like our moon-men; although,

to tell the plain truth, your earth-men appear to me, in a general

way, to be more ferine and brutal, creatures of a lower order,

Ithan our moon-men. But still saw that you were of a kind

sufiiciently like to us to make my intercourse with you not
Iimpossible.
              had a hope of being able to' learn some of your

languages by living among you, listening to you, and imitating
Iyou.
       had studied the nature of language in general, so as to
I Ibe confident that in this could succeed.
                                             went to a city in

China and did, in the course of alyear, acquire the language
I Iwhich they there spoke.
              have since acquired others.          was

FROM THE MOON To THE EARTH.                                 405

Iaware that such acquisition was necessary in order that might

take any further steps in the great object of my existence, the

attempt to discover my brother on the surface of the earth. In
I Ithe pursuit of that object am now here.
Imy narrative, so far as have yet carried    do not know whether

                                             has removed yourI it,
Ifincredulity as to my really coming from the moon.
                                                  if     you have

still any remaining scruples on that head, or any difficulties

occur to you with regard to the facts which have very plainly

and simply related to you,      think  a it  will be better that you
                      I
should mention your difficulties now, before we go to otherII

matters; for have other things to tell you in which think
I                                                        I

you will be interested; and have great desire to discuss,

with a person so intelligent as you are, the difference between

your world and ours.  pause here, therefore, that may listen
                                                      I

to what you have to say.

                    CHAPTER XXI.

                    CONCLUSION.

I UNDERTOOK to trace the literary and scientific career of the late
IMaster of Trinity College, and this task have now accomplished.

Others who knew him more intimately will describe his life as it

was passed in the society of his friends and in the discharge of his

Iolficial duties; and it is with some hesitation that offer a few

remarks which may seem to pass beyond the boundary traced out

for my occupation.

     My personal acquaintance with Dr Whewell was slight, though

I Itmet him occasionally in the course of University business.

has been/handed down by tradition, and stated in print, that he

was somewhat dictatorial and overbearing in conversation, though

not unwilling to admit, at least implicitly,ran error when decisively
I Icorrected.
cannot say for myself that ever saw instances of

the fault thus imputed to him, though he appeared to have less

ease of manner than might have been expected in one who had

been so much in the habit of associating with accomplished men

and women. My own acquaintance with him however extended

only to the later period of his life when advancing age and great

sorrow had apparently subdued the vehement disputatiousness

I Iof character attributed to his early years. The slight recollections

which retain respecting some occasions in which happened to

Ibe in his company are scarcely worth preserving, but am glad
Ito record that sometimes enjoyed the benefit of his conversation.

   I first spoke to him when undergoing examination for the

Smith's Prizes; he was standing in Trinity Lodge near the portrait

of himself painted by Samuel Lawrence, and though the occasion

Iwas little suited for the indulgence of any extraneous reflexion

could not help being struck with the skill of the artist in producing

a work which, though slightly idealised, was still eminently faithful

Ito the original. have never seen any other likeness of Dr Whewell

at all comparable to this, or indeed that gave me even moderate

CONCLUSION.  407

satisfaction. As an examiner for the Smith's Prizes Dr Whewell

was not popular; he had almost ceased to take a personal interest
in mathematics, and his questions were derived from methods and

books that had gone out of date--for there are fluctuations of

taste and fashion even in the serene realms of abstract science.

Moreover he sometimes proposed problems which he himself had
not fully worked out, and which were in fact too difficult for

complete solution. Such exercises can only be good tests for"
students, provided they are informed how much they are expected
to accomplish, and are not left to waste their time and courage in

unavailing efi'orts.

   IMany years ago was present at an official dinner which

Dr Whewell gave when he was Vice-Chancellor of the University.
One of the youngest persons of the party was speaking earnestly
against the current system of mathematical examination, main
taining, and quite justly, that the papers set were too long and
too difficult to be finished by the undergraduates in the time
assigned to them, and he asserted that the University in allowing
it to be supposed that such feats were really performed was guilty
of imposture. The speaker was animated, and owing to this and
to a sudden pause in the general conversation his last word was
distinctly carried through the room. Dr \Vhewell who was at
some distance turned towards the speaker and, addressing him
by name, said slowly and gravely, "You are using very strong
language with respect to the proceedings of the University ;" then
after a long pause he added to the relief of the audacious critic,

I"but think not too strong." At the conclusion of the dinner

Dr Whewell returned to the subject and discussed it very fully.
He thoroughly acquiesced in the opinion that the mathematical
examinations in the University were too severe, and comPiained
of the unsatisfactory performance of the candidates in the Smiths
Prizes Examinations, especially as he said that he studiously con
structed his papers by an easier standard than that of the Senate
House. He expressed especial displeasure at the conduct of those
who left the examination room befOre the prescribed time had

expired, without taking the trouble to look through their `own`

papers for the purpose of correction and improvement; as he said

408 CONCLUSION.

" they will not condescend to revise what they have scribbled in

tempestuous haste, but thrust  it,         barely legible, into the hands
of the examiners."
                                          ;
Perhaps he was most interesting in company when the con

versation turned on the history of science, for he had been per

sonally acquainted with many of the most eminent philosophers
of the present century and had watched the course of their

studies: At one of the anniVer'sary meetings of the Cambridge

Philosophical Society he alluded to its commencement and pro

gress, and to his own share in the proceedings; glancing from the

Secretary's oflicial seat at one end of the table to the President's

at the other, he said that he had himself occupied every position
in the philosophical firmament from the nadir to the zenith.
After the dinner he delighted some of the junior members who

were fortunate enough to be near him with reminiscences of

heroes of the former generation, especially of Young and      by of
Ampere, both famous for the marvellous variety of their attain

ments, and then not so well known as they have since become

the publication of able biographies.

    In the year 1862 the British Association met for the third

time in Cambridge.     do not know whether Dr Whewell pro:
it,
tested, as he did on the occasion of the second visit, that the
   I
burden Onght not to be again thrown on a place which had

already endured but he certainly took much interest in the pro
ceedings. He passed with Lady Aflieck from one room to another

of those occupied by the Sections, and was obviously gratified

by the respect which was universally shewn to himself and to her.

The late Professor Boole, so well known for his mathematical

and philosophical attainments, attended the meeting, and took

the opportunity of his stay in Cambridge to visit the graveof
Robert Leslie Ellis at Trumpington they were men of kindred

genius and learning and had been drawn by mutual esteem into

close friendship. Professor Grote who then resided at Trumpington
brought to Mr Boole request from Lady Affieck, the sister of
                    a

Mr Ellis, that he would call at Trinity Lodge, and accordingly he

saw her and Dr Whewell. He was much gratified with the inter--

view, but somewhat surprised to find that she did not bear any

CONCLUSION.                                             409

great similarity in appearance or manner to her remarkable

Ibrother. In less than eight years not one of the four whom have

named as then living survived.    .
ILate in his life occasionally met Dr Whewell at the Board of

Moral Sciences Studies established in the University, but the busi

Iness was usually only of a formal character, and recollect only one

occasion on which he expressed an opinion on a matter of interest.

The question was under consideration as 'to what amount of

attention the students should be urged to give to Kant's

Kritilc der Reine'n Vernunft, and a member of the board held it

to be very important that the main principles of the work should

be fully understood, but not advisable to exact a knowledge of all

the details with which Kant had surrounded them; to this opinion

Dr Whewell explicitly assented.
IThe last communication which received from him was a
Icorrection of a mistake in my History of Probability.
                                                        had

given to Professor J. D. Forbes the epithet late, confounding him

with his cousin Professor Edward Forbes recently deceased.

IFrom Dr Whewell's note learned for the first time how inti

-mately he was acquainted with J. D. Forbes. He spoke to me

Iabout my book when last saw him shortly before his death.

Dr Whewell was very fond of argument, as may be gathered

from his letters and from the testimony of those who remember

his conversation. His great attainments rendered him a formid

able antagonist, as he was able to draw from all departments of

knowledge the evidence which told in his own faVour, not in any

unfair spirit, but for the gratification of hearing the best arguments

that could be urged against him.

His friendships were very numerous, and were maintained

with a cordiality which gives strong evidence of the depth and

sincerity of his feelings. With scientific men in the early part

of his life he Was widely acquainted; his travels on the continent,

and his constant attendance at the meetings of the British

Association, afforded him opportunities of personal intercourse of

which he most willingly availed himself; but, as he acknowledges

in his correspondence, he did not become familiar with the younger

generation, the contemporaries of his later years. He was also inti

410 CONCLUSION.

mate with many of the most distinguished cultivators of other fields
of knowledge, as Bunsen, Empson, Guizot, Hallam, Hare, Hum
boldt, Jeffrey, Sir G. (1 Lewis, Macaulay, Malthus and Milman.
The letters addressed to him by his correspondents, both literary
and scientific, shew not only respect and admiration for his great

Iattainments, but warm personal esteem and affection. remember

the late Professor Brandis of Bonn spoke of him to me in terms
of strong commendation; the learned philosopher called him

ISir William Whewell, and when suggested the omission of the

prefix he appealed to Shakespeare to convince me that it was
the proper term of respect for an English clergyman. Dr Whewell
was well acquainted with Mr Everett and Mr Bancroft, ambas_
sadors from the United States to England, and this is the more
noteworthy because his opinions on secular and ecclesiastical
matters were in many respects contrary to theirs. He must have
been also in theory almost as distant from an eminent English
friend, Sydney Smith, who once in a letter asked him, "When are
you coming to thunder and lighten at the tables of the metro
polis ?" The well-known saying of the 'wit respecting him--
"science is his forte and omniscience is his foible "---was uttered as

he was leaving a small breakfast party: two others were present,
namely Samuel Rogers, and one who still survives with the honour
due to great achievements in science.

     The subjects which Dr Whewell studied have been indicated
in the accounts given of his numerous publications; but a few
general observations may be added. His letters to Mr Rose imply
that in early life he had some intention of devoting considerable
time to the acquisition of languages, a project which is naturally
formed by students in the sanguine days of youth, and his note
books shew that he was extremely fond of etymological researches
and speculations. But the pressure on his leisure and his thoughts
produced by his scientific labours checked his linguistic zeal, and
compelled him to limit himself to moderate labours in that field.
His early Latin scholarship he always maintained. One of the
friends of his boyhood, having to return thanks for an honour
conferred on him by the French Academy of Sciences, appealed
to Dr Whewell for aid in expressing his sentiments in correct

           CONCLUSION.                              411

Latinity, which he held to be the proper language for the inter

change of scientific courtesies. Dr Whewell wrote the inscriptions

for the bust of Mr Sheepshanks and for the statue of Barrow, which
Iare placed in the ante-chapel of Trinity College.
                                                    once heard

him complain very much of the Latin prose composition which

came under his notice officially in the University, not for faults of

style, but for the absence of point and meaning; to this general

censure he made one decided exception, namely, the speeches of

Jthe Public Orator of the period, the present Master of St ohn's

College. Dr \Vhewell was an excellent German scholar, as appears

from his published translations and from the evidence of well

qualified judges still living. Humboldt in a note to him thus

explains the cause of having lost the pleasure of seeing him at

Potsdam:   J" C'est votre admirable connoissance de la langue
allemande  qui m'a porté malheur.  'avois ordonné de laisser

entrer tout gentleman anglais qui se présenteroit. Vous avez

parlé allcmand comme un habitant du pays 2 I"

   IDr Whewell paid much attention to poetry, but do not find

in his publications or among his papers any very definite statement

of his opinions with respect to the tests of poetical excellence,

though judgments on particular works are delivered. In early life

he was unfavourable to the poetry of what is called the Lake School

generally, and to that of Wordsworth in particular, but his views

considerably changed in subsequent years. He was always a great

admirer of Southey's Roderick.

His sermons do not exhibit any special theological learning,

and it is curious that with his power of study and his strong bent

for system-making, of which he was himself conscious, he should

have been so little attracted by divinity. Some of his correspond

ents in his early days recommended the subject to him, as well

suited to his taste and ability, but he did not find it congenial.

This has been attributed partly to his dislike of controversy on

theological subjects, and partly to his earnest pursuit of science.

Those who regret the want of precision which seems to belong to

many modern English sermons, may speculate on the benefit

which might have followed from the example and influence of so

eminent a man as Dr Whewell. It is true that religion appeals to

412 CONCLUSION.

a more important part of human nature than even the intellectual,
and enjoins principles and dispositions which will endure when
knowledge shall have vanished away; but at the same time the
minds of some men are so constituted that they long for order and
coherence in their views of theology as well as of merely secular
subjects. Such a disposition is justified by the fact that not a few
of the most devout Christians have been remarkable for their

endeavours to secure a logical theory as well as a vivid experience
of religion, and it is stamped with the unquestionable authority
derived from the argumentative form of apostolic teaching itself.

     There seems to have been a peculiarity in Dr \Vhewell's mode

of composing his works, if we may judge from various fragments

relating to his scientific productions and to his early sermons.
When he had secured a few hours of leisure, as for instance in the

course of a foreign tour, he would write a brief essay on some part
of the subject at which he was working; thus it might be on
Induction and Deduction, or on the Nature and Use of Hypothesis.
The only results which he proposed to himself apparently were to
fix his ideas in his memory, and to gain facility in expressing
them; for in all probability he did not recur explicitly to the
papers thus written. When he finally sat down to prepare for

Ithe press believe he never copied a former manuscript, revising

as he went on, but wrote afresh. Mr Disraeli, in the preface to
his last novel, strongly recommends the process of copying, and
confirms his opinion by the example of Lord Byron; Dr Whewell
might with advantage have adopted such a practice.

     His style on the whole has been generally admired, though
some critics have censured it as stiff and cumbrous. Lockhart

complained of the review of Lyell's Geology as shewing haste and
slovenliness when it came into his hands, and said that he had to

rewrite it himself. Perhaps if Dr Whewell had copied it for the

 press he might have succeeded in satisfying the fastidious editor

Iof the Quarterly Review. For my OWn part think his writing is

 very good, vigorous enough to interest, and so clear as to prevent

Iany misunderstanding; except, however, the Elements of .Mo

 rality, in which the author's power seems for a season to have
 deserted him, though it returned in all its vigour in the Essay on

                         CONCLUSION.                 413

the Plurality of Worlds. His early letters are remarkable as

exhibiting frequently three closely written pages with scarcely a

correction or an erasure. Sir J. Herschel has well described the

most obvious features of Dr Whewell's style in a passage towards
the close of his review of the History and Philosophy. "Its chief

characters are a remarkable occasional point and felicity of expres--

sion, and the almost systematic adoption, as a mode of illustration,

of a great assemblage and variety of metaphorical allusion, much

greater indeed than we should like to see adopted by an author

less thoroughly imbued with his own meaning, and less capable of
curbing the exuberance of a brilliant fancy into an entire subordi

nation to his reason. We say systematic--for we have no doubt

that it is intentional ; and the object, moreover, is attained, the con

vergence of illustrations from so many different quarters rendering
it perfectly impossible to mistake the point to which they are
directed." Dr Whewell's publications and correspondence shew

that he made a point, especially in his early years, of cultivating a

Baconian habit of using simile and metaphor, and although this is

not carried to excess in his own case, yet there are indications that

he sometimes set too high a value on the productions of others on

account of their exhibition of this peculiarity.

   I touch but lightly on a subject which
a                                                 strictly speaking,
                                                              is,

                                                                           is
                                                                              in
beyond my province. In politics Dr Whewell in early life was

not altogether averse from the Whig party, which included some

of his firmest friends, as Sheepshanks and Peacock; but he became

in the end Conservative, though not in the strict sense of the term.

It has been said that the decline into Conservatism  natural to

Englishmen when they marry and settle in life, but marriage this

case can scarcely have conduced to such a result, since Mrs Whewell

came from a family of decided Liberal principles. But he was never

prominent in general politics. It was far otherwise in what may

be called academical politics; in later life his great energy and
influence were strongly exerted in resisting proposed reforms,

with some exceptions which have noticed on page 215. He
                         it
himself regretted that he was thus compelled to oppose many
                           I
friends whom he had warmly esteemed during his whole resi

dence at Cambridge, and  seems to have escaped his suspicion

414 concwsron.

that the change might be rather in himself than in them ; for in
his early life he had been in favour of measures which subse
quently he disregarded or opposed. In his own phraseology he
finally regarded only the Permanent to the neglect of the Pro
gressive. Such a change of opinion with him may, however, have
been more apparent than real; he may still have felt that there
were many faults in the academical system, but may have lost
confidence in the methods proposed for correcting them, and it is
only natural that hope and boldness should give place to doubt
and caution as "progressive years strip from our life the illusions
of its golden dawn." His historical tastes and studies would
easily lead him to dwell more on the certain facts of the past
than on the precarious promises of the future, and the annals of

the University presented glories which were almost unrivalled
among the academic institutions of Europe. From Cambridge
had proceeded the reformers of religion, the chiefs of science,
and the philanthropists who, in more recent times, had broken
the fetters of the slave. Even the most ardent advocate for
progress, though justly convinced that the best method of pre
serving our institutions is a wise adaptation of them to the
circumstances of the age, warding off revolution by reform, may
yet, when he looks back on such a noble history feel some
misgiving, and hope rather than believe that the future will

be not unworthy of the past.
     Perhaps one of Dr \Vhewell's own philosophical doctrines

might have been urged against his steadfast resistance to change
in the University, namely, that ideas originally very imperfectly

Itapprehended become clear in the course of time and study.

might have appeared obvious to an enquirer into the course of

academic opinion that there was a sure, even if slow, approach

to the recognition of important principles formerly doubted or
denied--such as the inexpediency of compulsory celibacy, the
impropriety of compulsory orders, and the injustice of excluding
youths from the advantages of the University on account of
the religious opinions of their parents. Thus the advocates of
reform might have claimed some sympathy from Dr Whewell
0n the ground of his own published doctrines, for otherwise he

CONCLUSION.  415

 would have fallen within the range of his own condemnation as re--
 corded by Mr F. Newman: "The late celebrated Professor Whewell
 deliberately asserted that the great weakness of the English intellect

 was its inability to trust to broad principles." In some of the cases

Iin which should venture to differ from Dr Whewell's course of

 action, it is not improbable that he followed the advice of others
 who were not the best judges of the circumstances. Friends eminent
 in various branches of knowledge, to whom on their own subjects

 he had often referred with great advantage, were occasionally
 consulted, or offered their suggestions, on matters to which they
 had not given any special attention.

      But although Dr Whewell was strongly opposed to the Royal
 Commission that visited the University, and to the reforms which
 were in consequence introduced, yet he loyally accepted the new
 constitution. He soon found that no evil results followed; non

 conformists availed themselves of the partial removal of obstacles

and entered the University, some of them selecting Trinity'

 College itself, and they soon shewed, by exemplary conduct and
by eminent ability, that their presence was nothing but a benefit
to all. Dr \Vhewell himself could not help being struck with the
fact, that in his own college those who advocated reform proved
their sincerity and earnestness by regular attendance at the meet
ings held'for the consideration of new statutes, and other legis
lative improvements, at great sacrifice of time and convenience;

and he always appreciated the merit of a strict discharge of duty.
      During the last years of his life he had quite overcome the

unpopularity which once attached to him, he had lost much of
the imperious combativeness which is said to have characterized
his early years, and he was universally received with the respect
justly due to his character and'attainments. Such a man con
ferred honour on the whole University as well as on the great
college of which he was the Head. He served the University
faithfully and had promoted her interests, according to his best
judgment, throughout his long career. Not the least of the many
benefits which he conferred was the example he set' of unceasing
labour, for this was a permanent rebuke to that indolence which
is the bcsctting failing of the place--not the grosser form of

41 6 \  CONCLUSION.

 aimless waste of time, but the more seductive error which consists

 in the mere acquisition of knowledge which is never reproduced
 for the benefit of others.

      The question whether his writings will live is frequently sug
 gested with respect to an author who has occupied much attention
 during his own generation; and it must almost always be rash
 to predict with confidence that they will. For amongst the
 thousands of volumes which the press pours forth annually the
 chance of remote survival for single productions can be but small.

 Scientific research especially, from its very nature, though per
 manent in influence is transitory in form ; the light which the phi
 losopher displays guides to other investigations which far outshine
 his own, and leave his name in comparative obscurity. Much of
` Dr Whewell's own labour was of this kind; and he would himself
 have readily admitted that men must be content merely to hand
 on the torch of science to their successors. But whatever may be the
,fate of his works his memory cannot be forgotten in the University
 which he loved so well, and where there will always be a memorial

 of his munificence in the Professorship and Scholarships which

 hear his name. A strong testimony to his character and attain

 ments is furnished by the opinion of those who knew him inti
 mately. Few men now survive who can be strictly called his

 contemporaries--but some there are, eminent themselves, who
 though rather younger in years were associated with him at the
 time of his most vigorous power, and who speak with enthusiasm of

 his universal knowledge, his readiness to undergo any labour for
 the advancement of science, his punctual and zealous discharge of
 all that he thus undertook, and his generous sympathy with the
 pursuits and successes of his friends. One who was thoroughly
 acquainted with him, and whose own long career has been con
 spicuously bright and honourable, when lately recalling the inci
 dents of that career, said that he had known many famous men
 but on the whole Dr Whewell was the foremost of them all.

                                             THE END.
        CAMBRIDGE; PRINTED BY 0. J. CLAY, M.A. AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

WILLIAM WHEWELL, D. D.

                MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.

      AN ACCOUNT OF HIS WRITINGS

   WITH SELECTIONS FROM HIS LITERARY AND
                 SCIENTIFIC CORRESPONDENCE.

         BY I. TODHUNTER, M.A. F.R.S.

                                   HONORARY FELLOW OF ST JOHN'S COLLEGE.

                              lunhnn:

               MACMILLAN AND 00.

                                              1876.
                                         [All Rights rem-veal]

             Qtamhrfogz

PRINTED BY C. J. CLAY, M.A.
 AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

lolll-WiYT

121356
 v.1

                                                     [ApriL 1814.]

DEAR MORLAND,

         In order that you may reap the full benefit of all the

Iphilosophy intend to bestow upon you and have some distinct
I Iidea of what mean, will tell you the situation in which you

                                                                                                V

Iare to suppose me addressing you. After spending an idle day,
   came into my rooms here about eleven in the evening, and

'having contrived to lay hands upon Miss Edgeworth's Patronage

I made myself a fire and some tea and gravely sat down to read
Iit. Having finished one volume of the four, find it to be about

3 o'clock and not feeling the least inclination to put myself to
Ibed do not see what I\can.do better than make up a packet of
Ifcogitations and reflections for your edification.
                                                     you have ever

sat up till early morning reading, you may possibly have some

idea of that flow of spirits which one feels a little after midnight,

when the propensity to sleep is totally vanished and one finds a

Ikind of--a sort of--I know not what manner of alacrity and fer

mentation of the animal spirits, which suppose if one had been

asleep would have evaporated in the form of a cloud of nonsensical

dreams, without any such benefit to society and to literature as is

likely to be derived from my waking contemplations at present.
But in order that you may have distinct ideas upon the subject

Iwhich all metaphysicians make to be of so much importance, (from

which observation you may possibly fancy that am at present -

w. n.                                                1

               2t?§é4

2 REV. G. MORLAND. 1814.

reading metaphysics) it may not be amiss to set forth what
I mean by an idle day at Cambridge; seeing that there are as
Imany different modes of idleness as there are of action.
                                                           awoke,

therefore in the morning, and looking at my watch, found that it

I Iwas 10 minutes too late to go to Chapel, with which disappoint

ment was not very much mortified, as did not think myself
Iafter that obliged in conscience to get up immediately.
                                                           there

fore took unto me Locke's Essay, and read in bed till eleven

o'clock--got up and breakfasted--grew out of humour with Locke

--went out--called on a great mathematician--driven out by his

private pupils coming--called on another great mathematician----

found him with a tooth just drawn--Thompson's Chymistry in

one hand and spitting blood into a bason in the other--asked me

to dine at his rooms as his mouth did not allow him to go into

hall--lounged at the Booksellers--dined at 5--a great quantity

Jof mathematics,` puns and nonsense talked--(NB. He was a
  ohnian)--Eight o'clock we began to read Tom Jones, four of us

reading a chapter alternately--much deep Philosophy solved--

and so on; upon various parts of which day's work one might
very sagely philosophize--J` But what," you cry, " is all this to

Miss Edgeworth?" Now, my dear Morland, consider what a very

high rank Patience holds among the Christian virtues; consider
how very necessary it is to get habits of self-command, of restraint

Iupon the passions and above all that most wicked passion Gum'

osity; and peradventure before get to the end of this sheet
I may tell you something about
                                it,  though you are to reflect that

have myself only read the first volume, and that therefore
II
    Icannot be supposed to know how many marriages there are at

         iIf                  the first object of solicitude. Nor
the end, which of course  I is

indeed        could have given you an outline of the story, would

you suppose at all thank me for I      if  ever the book itself should
                                    it,
fall into your hands, at least would at this moment most will

ingly take a glass of the waters of Lethe, for my evil stars led me

to the Edinburgh Review where found an abstract of the plot

whereof now much repenteth me--Well, but to give you my
        it

              I
opinion of what have seen; though the plan of the tale appears

not very original but rather novelish, what of much more imis

                     REV. G. MORLAND. 1814.                         3

portance, the Characters, and those pleasing parts, the Dialogues,

appear supported with Miss Edgeworth's usual style of ability.
To be sure it may be said of it that all of it is not equal to the
best parts of her former works; but as Johnson said on a similar

occasion "There must be some parts which exist for the sake of
others--a diadem cannot be one entire diamond--the jewels

Imust be held together by some substance less precious," to which

  have often been tempted to add "that it is very well if that

substance be gold." The moral which this fair lady appears
desirous to inculcate is one which always has appeared to be her
favourite principle, Decision and Firmness of Character and Self
Dependence in opposition to that dependence on others, that Sys
tem of ` Patronage,' which is the order of the day. By the bye--

Ientertaining not the least doubt, as certainly do not, of the

wisdom and weight of this fair moralist's observations, and feeling

all the inclination that any soul can feel to act upon those princi
ples which she has so well illustrated, is it not an infinite nuisance

that one is never likely to be put in any situation where one

might make the experiment upon one's self and try what latent
powers and hidden capabilities the mind possesses? Is it not, in
short, enough to put one in a boiling rage to think that one must
live the dormouse life of the inhabitant of a college instead of

going amongst other two-legged beings in the wide world to see

whether we have got any thing superior to instinct about one;

any soul--and if we have, to find what colour it is of 2 Though to

Ibe sure think a person in any situation may, if it contributes to

his satisfaction, contrive to lead himself into temptation in order
to experiment on the strength of his own mind. For instance here

at this place there is no small degree of courage required, if a

person get into certain situations in society, to avoid running into
expense--not merely for the sake of dissipation; but because it is

difficult without incurring certain expenses to keep up that con
nection with persons of genius, learning, and eminent character,

Iwhich one would not like when once begun to let drop for impedi
ments of this sort.  suppose you begin to perceive by this time
I Ithat though do not myself appear disposed to sleep have a

tolerable knack at reasoning other people into a state of slumber.

                                             1--2

4 REV. e. MORLAND. 1814.

IIn fact have written such a parcel of stufl' that, large as this

sheet  is,Ido not know where must put the tail of my letter
            I                I

                                 Summi plena jam margine libri
               Scriptus et in tergo necdum finitus.

Moreover expect that you will write to me again and as soon

as may be and then, as shall have read the whole of this book,
               I                              I
                                                        Ia

                                                                  if
you are not satisfied with this shall be able to give you more
                             is I
satisfactory account of it.

Your Local Militia business certainly what would be called

here an infinite bore; in truth  it       a serious vexation and many

                                      is

are the philosophical theories and sublime, that could sport for

your consolation; only looking forwards to the day when shall

see you another Xenophon, think that we ought rather to
                             aI
rejoice.       a                          an
                                       s

          Believe me to be Dear Morland Ever yours w. W.

Ap. 6th.

               fallen, that mighty city. The Allies entered
BabylonI-

                      is

                                           I

                                                                                      it
Paris by capitulation on the 30th. Did not suppose that

you would be laetified by this news before this could reach

you should be inclined to say something more about                                        and

to heap still higher this running over bushel of nonsense. Adieu.

                                          Cnmnmnon, June 15, 1814.

DEAR MORLAND,

          Your cautions against vanity were, can assure you, by
I
       I
                     aI I
                             I

                                         I
no means unnecessary; the adversary assails me very strongly;

am at the present moment in the greatest perplexity how to

return pretty modest answers to half a dozen flaming compli

mentary letters that have received. But really you are very

inconsistent and whilst you are giving me ghostly advice you have

no more mercy than to be one of those to increase my embarrass

ment.     had a great wish to stay up to escape the congratulations

of my Lancaster friends who find are disposed to give me credit

for much more than have a claim to; and actually talk of my

fair fame resting on foundation which &c.--and of being the

REV. G. MORLAND. 1814.                                             5

first young man of the age, and of immortal honours, and several

other fine phrases which are enough to turn the head of any

mortal alive.

   INow wish you would contrive to make them understand

that this said prize and many others of equal value must be got

every year by some one or other, and that every year some one or

other must be first at every college; and that therefore the quan

tity of fair fames and immortal honours thus acquired will be so

great that it will be no small burthen to posterity to give them

due credit, and that posterity will very wisely solve the difficulty

by not troubling her head with them in the smallest degree, and

that even in this generation these fair fames &c. after buzzing

for a few months will terminate their ephemeral existence.

   I intended to send you a metaphysical letter in answer to your
Ipreceding one, but was prevented first by the bustle of the

Iexamination and then by a fortnight 0f idleness and dissipation

which has followed it. It is now dare say out of my power, for

Ias only absorbed a quantity of metaphysics for the examination

I Igave it all out again in answer to the questions, so that have

scarcely a particle remaining. This may appear strange to you

but it is perfectly well understood here. For instance, in the
examination for AB. after passing a most severe examination in

the profoundest parts of Mathematics the men go into a place

where they are stuck up in a box, and a man stuck up in a box

opposite asks some very simple question such as "Quid est circu

lus?" and to which a~manls mathematical knowledge is so much

Iexhausted that he always answers " Nescio."  _

am puzzled to make out what "little society" it is that you

have instigated to buy Metaphysical books; and also how Paley's
IPhilosophy finds itsway into the list.
                                         fancy you will like the

study of the science of the Mind, as it is a subject where when

you once set off a reasoning you may pass the bounds of space and

time and travel on to all Eternity without coming to any conclu

sion, or rather may arrive at a dozen contradictory conclusions all

equally certain. But if you want to see the science in its triumph

over common sense, with all its train of conclusions that admit no

answer and produce no conviction, read Bishop Berkeley's Principles

6 REV. G. .MORLAND. 1815.

of Human Knowledge and his Dialogues on the existence of Mat_
ter, where he proves beyond all contradiction that our belief of
the existence of external objects on the evidence of our senses is

equally as fallacious as when in a dream we deduce the same con
clusion from the same evidence. However after what the Scotch

Metaphysicians, Reid, Stewart, &c. have written it must be allowed

that Metaphysics is a very entertaining and also a very useful

study.
IAfter indulging in a little idleness since the examination am
Isetting to work again.
                         find it more than ever necessary to read

in order to come as near as may be to the expectations that my

friends entertain.

   I have just sent my poem to the press and find from the bore

Iof copying, correcting,~&c. that a person cannot meddle in any
degree with authorship with impunity.  shall come down in a

short time laden with verse,

               is a a as

               Dear M. Yours sincerely W. WHEWELL.

                              Tam. COLL. Aug. 10th, [1815 ?]

DEAR MORBAND;

           Though our correspondence may not be the most punc
tual in the world it is very regular in some points. For instance

every epistle has for its exordium an apology for not writing

Isooner and for its peroration a very urgent request for an immedi

ate answer. I' have am` afraid more than common occasion to

Ibegin according to these established rules, and certainly have

the greatest inclination in the world to conform to them in end
I Iing. Till looked at the date of your letter was not aware
Ithat had been such-a capital delinquent. One'evil consequence

Iof this vile practice is that hardly know what to say in reply to
Iobservations which two months ago could have answered with
Ithe most profound wisdom.
                              no longer know, and you no longer
Icare what saw at London, or what the Dean of Peterborough
Isaid to Mr Lingard. With regard to the first of these points have

only an indistinct recollection of seeing a multitude of houses,
each to the best of my remembrance occupied by its respective

          REV. G. MORLAND. 1815.                                7

inhabitants, except some of the largest which are in the hands of

people to whom you give sixpences and shillings that you may

Isay you have been in St Paul's, Westminster Abbey, etc. In a

week began to be tired of seeing a world where every body but

Imyself seemed to have something to do, where society seemed

made up into sets without leaving any vacancy which could fill,

Iand accordingly left them, knowing that they would mind their
Ibusiness just as well if were in my dressing gown at Cambridge.
I very soon by the help of philosophy overcame the mortification
I Iof finding that was not, so far as could discover, a necessary

part of the system of things; though as the immense bustle in

the streets and the grand aspect of St Paul's seemed for a moment

to have been created merely to excite pleasing sensations in my

mind, you must allow it would have been very flattering if the

Iwheels of business and of the great clock had stood still when
  withdrew my presence. You are quite mistaken in supposing

that there is no account of a voyage or travel to London. Besides

all the innumerable lists of Guides to, Pictures of, Vade--mecums

in, London--a description of a journey to the Metropolis and of

introduction into Society there is become an ingredient in a novel

as necessary as an amour.

     By the bye, there lay upon the bookseller's counter yesterday

a book entitled "A view of London," which is one of the gravest

Ipieces of absurdity which have seen for some time. The author,

who calls himself a Beneficed Clergyman in some part of Suffolk,

seems to have led one of those happy tranquil ecclesiastical lives,

in which a journey of fifty miles is the greatest event that happens

between the beginning and end thereof; at least if one may judge

from the space he devotes to the undertaking of removing any

surprise you may chance to feel at such an improbable adventure.
He begins--"Innumerable are the inducements of business and

pleasure which may draw the stranger to our far famed Metro

polis,--which has nearly doubled its population within the last

two hundred years." How the latter part of the sentence is con
'
          with the first (except  indeed  by the word  which which is a
  nected
Inever failing connector) no unbeneficed person am afraid will ever
Ifind out. But have not the least intention of writing a critique

8 JUN. R. .GWATKIN. 1 81 5.

upon this man, who is as loyal and as cautious of giving offence

as his bishop could possibly desire, as his book does not contain

above 40 pages.

   I I IWhat are you reading now? This is the time of life when you

and ought to be reading something, systematically mean ; sup

pose Divinity is your subject--but do you not intend to squeeze
Itsomething else into your. Cyclopaadia?
                                          is an observation that
I never made or at least never put into words till the other day,
Ithat here have the means of getting at almost every book that

ever was written. This is obvious enough, nevertheless it tended to

excite some scientific enthusiasm. But some people bid us beware
Iof the Demon of universal knowledge, and suppose some people
Iare wise.
            wish exceedingly you would take to studying some

science or other.  aa s s

                   Believe me Ever Yours W. VVHEWELL.

DEAR GWATKIN,.                              Tam. Conn. Aug. 10, 1815.

    IWhen got your epistle  I was' meditating to send you a

very vehement philippic against people who» let you hear so little

Iof them that you begin to imagine they must have migrated to
some other part of the solar system.  was rejoiced to hear that

Iyou had only been describing a trajectory over some parts of the

earth; and am- afraid I- have procrastinated- my essay on pro

Icrastination till have- lost the privilege of- making it. From

what you say I. suppose you will account for this by supposing me

lying on the sofa all day reading novels in my dressing gown.

I(N.B. have a sofa.) But my indolence is-not precisely of that

character. Our vocations are much more numerous than you

suppose--NB. upon "our." Of _ the small number of men who
are here every body knows every body, and thence it comes that

they have a great quantity of time and amusements in common.

Depict upon your intellectual retina Wilkinson, Slegg, Powell,

\Vollaston,Reed,Whewell, shootingswallows, bathing byhalf dozens,

sailing to Chesterton, dancing at country fairs, playing billiards,

tuning beakers into musical glasses, making rockets, riding out

REV. R. GWATKIN. 1815. .                                                                                                    9

in bodies, and performing a thousand other indescribable and in

comprehensible operations, and you will have some idea of the

means which are used to keep ennui at arm's length--and hither

to with tolerable success.

     That wizard Michael Slegg is becoming a'man- of this world---

IYou may have observed him to be possessed with the desire of

universal knowledge, but dare say you did not expect that this

demon of universality (beware of the foul fiend!) would ever put

him upon the back of a great cantering horse. But so it was.

Some demon whispered " Slegg you ought to ride," and. to ride he

accordingly began, to the very great astonishment of every passer

by, for his`horse, though a very quiet one, happened to have at

that moment some singular fancies, in which Slegg to gain the

animal's confidence indulged him--such as sidling up against the

door of a house, running his head against a house side, walking up

narrow passages, and at length, which inconvenienced his rider

most of all, trotting--in consequence of which. Slegg, came to the

ground before he got out of the streets of Cambridge. S. however

has persevered most manfully and in spite of repeated descents

still threatens to become an accomplished cavalier. The other

day his beast got the dominion over him and deposed him in such

a way as to collect almost all the inhabitants of Barnwell about

him, who appeared somewhat disappointed that he was not as
they said "all smashed to pieces." He was however no worse,

though he thought it advisable to get himself phlebotomized.

Among all this you will suppose that mathematics do not go

on very well--better perhaps than you. imagine but. certainly not
Iso well as they ought to do.
                               wish you were at. Cambridge--
I have not got any body to talk mathematics to--Nobody that
Iwould care a fig if were to tell them that when Force varies

as and Velocity equals that from infinity, body describes lem
I
              T1,,                                         W.ith                                                                  A
                                                             .
                                                                    1                                                     three
                                                         a
                                                   F1 a
                                                                                                                         a
ni.scate Wi.th two loops, when Force vari.es as  a  curve

Floops, when Force varies as                                                                '

                               curve Wi.th four loops, and so on.

scarcely ever hear the Senate House mentioned except by

1 0 REV. o. MORLAND. 1 8 1 5.

IWhittaker, who always asks whether am reading. Wilkinson
Ileaves Cambridge tomorrow and rather think is going N. to

stay for some weeks. Perhaps you may recollect a man of your
college who took his degree a year or two back of the name of
Thomas Briarly--do you know whether he is yet aliVe and in
England? Since he left Cambridge there has not been anything
heard of him. Communicate what intelligence you can concerning

Ihim as it is hoped he may yet possibly be in existence. At

present suppose you are "teaching the young idea how to shoot ";
are any of the young ideas that you have got likely to make

good shots? Will any of them bring down a high wrangler?

IIn Higgin suppose you will not have a pupil who is bigoted

to some theory or notion of his own. And Whitcombe? what
manner of mathematician,---or (what is a much more important

Iquestion) what manner of wrangler will he make? Expound to

me concerning these things--I would add if thought you would

pay any attention to it----cery soon.

                                          Yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 15, 1815.

DEAR MORLAND,

    I ought in all` conscience sooner to have answered your

request for something intelligible on the subject of my last letter,
Iwhich so far as can recollect must have been very particular
Inonsense (not a very uncommon occurrence).
                                             believe it con--

veyed to you certain yearnings after the whole circle of the

sciences, certain ecstatic aspirations after universal knowledge, cer

tain indefinite desires to approximate to something like omni

science. It is most certain that the mind of man is given to such

morbid generalizations, but woe betide the wight who either
expects that such a spirit will support him through all the details
even of one science, or that without the accuracy of detail he may

I content himself with the amplitude of general views, the magnifi
  cence of extensive vacuity. But though not much good would be

 Ilikely to come of me if were to remain in such an all-reading,
 Iall-learning mood for ever, am much rejoiced that you seem to

      REV. e. MORLAND. 1 8 1 5.                              11

have formed some designs of plucking a few of the apples of the
tree of knowledge. Unless indeed, in the transitory nature of all

human things, and more especially of all human emotions, the

enthusiasm of literature has gone by and you are settled into a

contentedness with such a share of human learning as may in the

common jostling of sublunary matters tumble into your cup.

But this is precisely what nobody who intends to lead a literary

                                 ought to be; All knowledge
life, and such a clerical life`  is;         is
                                     is
                                          a                    it

                                                                        is
                                                                        a is
valuable for its own sake, and, independently of the value of the

object, the time spent in acquiring knowledge worthily, because

happily, spent. And- by studying systematically both the satisfac
tion of the pursuit and the value of the end isincreased. As to

the precise system of attack, and points to be attacked,

matter of some difficulty toldecide. To recommend mathematics,

or even, very extensive study of- natural science, would be to
it a
give your a subject which requires more time than you have toa itis
spare to read to any purpose. But do by all means read so much
mathematics as to get an idea of mathematical reasoning; that

to say, get an Euclid and read the three or four first books. It

almost seems to me that man who has no idea of mathematical

reasoning has no idea of reasoning at all, certainly no proper

notion of the powers of the human mind and of the processes by

which may arrive at truth, no conception of those faculties by

Ifwhich the dominion of human knowledge has been extended,
                                             is,
                                                                       is
extending, and hereafter to be extended.is   you do get this

same book, do not expect to be struck with astonishment by the

glare of discovery, (10 not even expect to see the full value and

bearing of each proposition as you go on; that in plain words,

expect to find a system of reasoning which you may very likely

think dull, but of which, you go' on with perseverance, you willif

come to see the force. If you do not after this feel any particular

call to mathematics  (I  do not think you need be under any great

apprehensions) your own taste                much better judge for you

what to addict yourself to than that of anybody else. Though
you are married to the church, you may be " married to immortal

verse," or to any other of the immortals 0f the same species, with
out ofi'ence to the statutes of polygamy. But as people have

12 REV. G. MORLAND. 1816.

always a tendency to give advice which they do not follow,

I should say read systematically and accurately. This is so ex

ceedingly wise an epistle that it would be apity it should be lost,
I Iand yet now that have written it beginto wonder where it will
Ifind you.
            wish you would find time to write again, which you
Imay do as you cannot by any chance be so busy as am or ought

to be, for behold the end of my undergraduateship is at hand.

You will hear in a few weeks the event of all things. Do not be

too much surprised if a friend of yours should be four or five

places lower than you might wish to see him.

               Dear M., yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

               Buancrox QUAY, Aug. 10, 1816.

DEAR MORLAND,                                 ,

It is a longer time than usual since we have addressed
Ione another; and now that am domesticated in this out of the

way place you will scarcely know where to direct your imagination

Iif in any idle mood it should wander towards me, unless give

you indications of my existence. Upon looking back at the time

Iwhich has passed since saw you,.it seems perhaps longer than it

might otherwise do, from the changes that have taken place in it.

We naturally conclude that an- event which has changed the

colour of our existence has occupied a time proportional to its
importance; and however sudden the blow may be it seems as if

the parts of life before and after it were separated by a wide
I Iinterval.
            have been called to Lancaster since saw you, and

without the pleasure, as it would under any other circumstances

Ihave been, of meeting you there. You were snatching, suppose,

a draught of your native air in the short pause which the hustle
Iand hurry of life now and then allows you.
                                              was obliged to

proceed immediately to commence my summer operations here.

I am here as idle as a man well may be who is compelled to con
Ifine his attention six hours a day, and, so far as can perceive,

stand an admirable chance of being more ignorant at the end of

the vacation than the beginning. There is scarcely anything but

the habit of being in literary society which is at the same time

           REV. c. MORLAND. 1816.                   13

sufficiently strong and sufficiently constant to act as a stimulus to

literary exertion. The abstract desire of accumulating knowledge

is too vague and general to stick close about us, and the prospect

of future advantage in the way of fortune or fame too distant

and uncertain to keep us going, so that you perceive it is quite

Iinevitable that must be idle. You have no idea of the satis

faction it gives me to form theories such as this to account for my

Iindolence, because it half persuades me of what know to be false,
Ithat in other circumstances should do anything or to any pur

pose. This same human life is a very strange business--in which

we are led from step to step only by forming designs which are

never to be executed and hopes which are never to be fulfilled; in

which we amuse ourselves and tire our neighbours by talking of

intentions which perish as fast as they rise, and out of which we

shall go, having purposed everything and done nothing; just when
we were going to do what we should never do if we were to live
           '
for ever.
I do not know whether this train of moralizing ever gets into

your head, but it amuses me very much to observe all the incon

sistencies and absurdities of man, taking for granted, as moralizers

have from time immemorial been privileged to do, that every

body is as absurd and inconsistent as myself.

   I hope all your concerns spiritual and temporal go on as you

wish, that you have no lack of audiences for your sermons or of

sermons for your audiences; that you and the vicar are upon what
he calls good terms, and that you do not find more than usual

Itedium in teaching the young idea how to shoot.

    It is so long since wrote to you before that my good wishes

I Ihave, as you perceive, accumulated to a more than ordinary mag
nitude.    would send you more of them but have a man writing
Iat my elbow to whom have been every half sentence introducing

into his head ideas that nature never intended should find their

way there.                                          are much

   I suppose at the present moment our occupations

the same. Let me hear from you soon and believe me

                                   W. WHEWELL.

14 REV. G. MORLAND. 1817.

          TRINITY Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 2, 1817.

         "Yet once more, 0 my Morland, and once more" my

Ifuture Bachelor of Divinity, come to commune with you on the

Isubject of our last two or three letters, and as this is a matter of
no small importance let us consider it threefoldly.  shall there

fore discourse on the topics with which Milton's devils amused

themselves--viz. Fate, Freewill and F oreknowledge. First of

Fate--is it predestined that you shall become a member of Trinity?

Second of Foreknowledge--if so let me know before the nineteenth

I Iof February as the term divides then. Third of Freewill--if you

do not shall conclude am free to enter you at some small

college. By entering before the division of the term you will keep

the present term and your name will then remain upon the books
till in the fulness of time you shall come to see the glories of
Cambridge. At all events find time to write to me before division

and inform me whether Mackreth has got you a letter from
IHudson.
          wish your coming hither were not at such an immea
Isurable distance, for though do not at present see the probable
Ifulfilment of your prayers that may not waste my sweetness on

the desert air of Cambridge all that time, yet it is not to be

expected with any degree of confidence that you will find me here

Iten years hence. But have no doubt that when you come you

will be sufficiently amused by the animals you will find here. A

very perfect specimen of the class of them called senior fellows

departed this life, or more properly speaking and which excites

much greater interest here, vacated his fellowship yesterday. An

old man between 80 and 90 who must have been in college ever

since the middle of last century, and consequently had outlived all

his early connections with any society except his college society

Iwithout forming new ones. All our fellows who stay here live to
a great age--we have one or two of his cowvi still left.  break

fasted this morning with a French abbé (speaking wondrous bad

English and exhibiting a wondrous quantity of beard, dirt and

Ifoul linen--but no matter for that) with whom had a stout

battle about the catholic religion. He accuses you clergymen of

the church of England of misrepresenting from ignorance or

               SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL., 1817.      15

I Ifrom malice the doctrines of his Church. did what could to

drive him into some inclosure of fixed principles, but he always
contrived to slip through the paling. However he talked so per

Iseveringly that when the dinner bell rang was obliged to take

advantage of a fit of coughing which he had to slip in a good

morning.

               Truly yours W. WHEWELL.

               TRINITY COLL, Cum, March 6, 1817.

DEAR HERSCHEL,

    IFrom what you said in one part of your letter hoped to

have seen you before this, sailing through the courts of St John's

with all the pride and ample pinion that bear a Master of Arts

Ihither at every contested election, and in consequence was pre

pared to be not only in charity but in good humour with the

whole system of electioneering, canvassing, voting, contravoting,

and outvoting which predominates here. I_ do not know a stronger

instance of the power of Providence in thus `from evil still educing

good," and of the ingenuity of man in educing evil from good--

than the way in which one of the parties contrives to make such

an establishment as this university little else than an arena of

petty, interested, idle, gossiping and malicious college politics,

and the other manages to produce from this same paltry frame

of college politics events which increase the sum of human hap

piness so much as the reappearance of one's friends upon this

terrestrial theatre--or more properly senate-house. You must

Iallow me to be out of humour with the university, because have
Inot yet recovered my chagrin at finding when began to look

about me and rub my eyes at the beginning of last term that

both you and Jones were vanished. It was, to use a familiar

illustration, a feeling like that of coming to yourself after a dose of
Initrous gas.
               cannot tell you the real intellectual loss which
I Ifeel it--but amongst other things have got no soul to talk

functions to--nor in fact anything else that is worth talking.

By the bye, we had Bromhead here a little while back, who was

as usual absolutely overflowing with theories, more particularly

16 SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1817.

mathematical. The rapidity and extent of his generalizations is

absolutely overpowering. They expand before you like a canister
of gunpowder which should explode while you held it in your

I Ihands. He certainly has got a very long way into new views of

his subjects, but from what have seen of him cannot for the

life of me tell whether it is from the lightness or the firmness of

his tread. Exceedineg pretty the way in which he gets at

Fagnani's theorem, and what is still better gives you the naked
Iprinciple of the thing.
                          have been trying to generalize it but
Ithe ulterior forms demand some pitiful restrictions.
                                                        am not
Icertain that shall not soon have the honour of appearing in your

capacity of translator and annotater of French mathematics. Rose

came to me the other day and told me he thought of translating
ILacroix's Application of Algebra to Geometry.
                                                  said, carelessly
enough, "I will write you some notes." The book is a good book

and might be made very useful here, but Rose is not the man

   I
              aI
                                       I
                                              I

                                                                             a it

                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                   it,
to be concerned in such a thing: he knows very little about

and suspect will not be the more manageable on that account.

If you can suggest anything that you think will be useful pray

do. You have  suppose seen Peacock's examination papers.

They have made considerable outcry here and have not much

hope that he will be moderator again.     do not think he took

precisely the right way to introduce the true faith. He has

stripped his analysis of its applications and turned    naked

among them. Of course all the prudery of the university up

and shocked at the indecency of the spectacle. The cry  " not

enough philosophy." Now the way to prevent such clamour
would have been to have given good, intelligible, but difficult, phy

sical problems, things which people would see they could not do

their own way, and which would excite their curiosity sufficiently

to make them thank you for your way of doing them. Till some

one arises to do this, or something like  it,  they will not believe

even though one were translated to them from the French.

Every thing here just as ever was, that all the world
              is          it                   is            is

                                  a               I,
eaten up with pupils. Whittaker has six, so have besides which

I  am or ought to be reading for fellowship.   I  was in London

during the vacation and learnt that Jones had intentions of

               REV. H. J. ROSE. 18-17.                                        17

visiting Cambridge this term--learnt it from one who saw Jones
in a situation where it would be whimsical to see him, playing at
whist, utpote Parson of the Parish, with his farmers and their

daughters. There are few things that would give me so much

Ipleasure as to see you and him; therefore my dear H. pray that
Isome election or other which hear people talking about may

bring you here. Yours truly W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR Ross,     Tum. COLL, 14th Sept. [1817].

               `
                                                                           .

You did a most praiseworthy action when you called up

your sympathy for a man about to be examined and wrote to me.
I am glad to hear again of an old and favourite scheme, and to
Isee it tending more and more to its fulfilment.
                                                  am glad to see
Imy friends about to exert their talents when know that they

want only to be exerted in order to be valued. Now as to the

manner. You still seem to have a partialitfyr for the form of a

Review, which is no doubt in these times as accommodating a

form as we could take, and will admit as many subjects treated
in as many manners as eculd be wished. But is there--I ask

Imerely for`information, because know nothing of the politics of

literature--is there an opening for one? Would you annex

yourself to any party in politics or in religious opinion? If you

would not, do you think that a review with no such seasoning

would go down? People read reviews at present to spare them

selves the trouble of reading original books and forming their own

opinions; and of course, from the importance of the subjects,

opinions about church and state are those for which there is the

highest demand. This would of course be expected at first, and

the book would first have to get over people's disappointment at

not finding it what you vnever intended it to be, before it began

to get credit for what it was. No doubt the system upon which

reviews are in general conducted has many and huge faults, but

would you be more likely to cure them by falling into their

ranks? Would you not be something like an army surgeon who

is put in uniform for the purpose of healing the wounds that the

rest make, but generally looks rather awkward in his regimentals?

74' w. II.                                        2-

18 REV. H. J. ROSE. 1817.

Do you think in short that there is a sufficient number of people
to support a review merely because it was conducted withsound
knowledge, good taste, right feeling, and reasonable good writing?
Would it not be the tendency of a review to force you upon
personalities, to make you sacrifice truth and fairness to wit or
paradox, and in short to plunge you at once in all the tricks of
a literary life ? Again, does not a review at least for a long time,
though it seems to exert only the shadowy majesty of an
anonymous critic, yet in fact derive its weight from the known
character of its conductors; and would there not be a strong

prejudice to be overcome against a few young men, just emerging
or not emerged from the university, who should set themselves
up to direct public opinion? This might be overcome by perse:
verance and talents, but still it would be for a long time very

Iuphill work. Besides, so far as can discover, there is nothing

to mark and particularise your plan; your publication would at
first seem merely to be lifting its buzz among the crowd of

ephemerals that every day brings forth, distinguished only by its
name and the colour of its cover. To think of giving it any
very marked connexion with Cambridge may arise perhaps from
a narrowness of view, but it would at least have the effect of

individualizing it more completely and of pointing out in some
measure at least the nature of the work, as rather undertaken

from a strong and, if you will, an academic attachment to science

and literature, than from a love of literary gossiping. 'There is
another consideration which ought to have some weight, and that
is the effect upon the mind of such habits of writing as a review
would require. There is a very great difference both between
the books you would read and the way in which you would read

them if you were catering for a review, and if you were getting

knowledge for your own purposes. You would have to read a
number of worthless books, and to read many good ones with
very little enjoyment or profit. The perpetual habit of watching
the sensations that a book makes will not by any means tend

to make them more vivid or distinct; and there must be a very
wide difference between analysing the effect which a writer
produces upon' you when it is so strong as to give you a curiosity

               REV. H. J. ROSE. 1817.                                      19

isto do     and the feeling your duty to perform such process
           it,                                                       Ia

              it a
                                    it

                                               it
upon every author who comes in your way; and the everlasting

drain of your ideas, the drawing off your feelings before they

have time to settle and clear, the pouring out every, thing that

comes into your head as fast as collects, must be, and think

you may observe from the instances of young and prolific writers,

   one of the things the most impoverishing to the mind. And

on subjects of science and information the case will be much the

same. In       set of men so few and so young as the proposed

reviewers      could not be expected that they would have sound

information and extensive reading on all the subjects that would

come under their cognisance. In many cases they would have

to get up an article, to scrape together information in a very

~hasty and indiscriminate way, and most likely to do ill at last.I it
 Not to speak of the probability of their opinions and views of

subjects changing completely. For my own part will not

answer for my opinions upon any subject out of the circle of

demonstration for two months.      find them changing perpetually,
         it

                               I
                                   I

                                     iIf
and should be by no       means certain                    advanced  an opinion
                          number that              should not be     disposed to
upon a subject in one                              part indeed       should feel
                            For my own
retract     in the next.                                     I
                                                                 I
much inclined not to attempt to write anything at all for the       it I
next year or two, for there are so few subjects on which am
not on the very verge of ignorance that would be of much                            is
more use to myself, and am sure to the world, that should
try to learn than to teach. There no occasion to say that

   speak this in the most profound sincerity of heart, but as
                          I

                                                 is

                                                     it

I

difficult to analyse such feelings so as to discover how much

indolence      mixed up in them, should be willing to engage
            I is
              I
                       I

                                if I

                                                 it
                                                       it
in any project where could suppose myself likely to do any

thing at all.  do think however that would be advisable to

wait a. little before publishing,                  were only to collect some

materials.     do not much like the plan of living from hand to

press; writing just enough to keep the first number on its legs

and leaving the rest to take care of itself. There are many

               review were to be written, should like have
reasons why,                                                 is,
   a                                                                   to

             if

                       a

                                     I
half year devoted to collecting materials, that                      to writing

                                                                     2--2

20 REV. H. J. ROSE. 1817.

articles sufficient for three or four numbers. It would be well,

Ibecause we should most of us think be unpractised in writing,

and it might be some time before we got a style that we should
Iwish to write and could write with ease.
                                            think it very likely

that in that respect at least the first essays would be the worst;

now there is no reason under the sun why we should send our

exercises into the world with all their unavoidable imperfections

on their head. Besides, by writing and communicating articles

we should each see something of the spirit in which the rest

expected to have the work conducted. Without this half a dozen

articles might meet together all looking different ways and giving

each other the lie in every page. Not to speak of the very

disagreeable case of panting and toiling after time in vain, having

to seek for articles when you ought to be publishing them; and.

prowling about in the vain hope of dragging some unfortunate
Iauthor to your den.
                      have written so far because it is highly

desirable that in such a matter we should know one another's

views. You will consider all my objections only as queries to let
Ifme more fully into your plans.
                                  the plan be carried into
Iexecution, and if it be supposed that can assist in
                               iIf                         shall
                                      I
have satisfaction in contributing my share  can make out
                                        I iIf
                                                   I iIt,
what          is. But shall find great difliculty in fixing on any
I             I
subjects which are not better pre-occupied. On scientific subI is I
          it
jects, to which perhaps have the strongest bias, know nothing;

and where Herschel concerned,     did, could be of no use.

The same is true, in at least an equal degree, on subjects of

general information. If had a year or two of leisure fancy

could read to some purpose. But pray let me know how you

have arranged so far. NV ho are your half dozen? Are matters
so managed that there room for me to be one of them? For
                  I
                         is
the periodical time think certainly with you that month
                                                      a

would be too short; two months might perhaps be long enough

and would have the advantage of not bringing us into competi

tion with the quarterly reviews, and upon the Whole seems'to

have as much for  as any scheme. George Peacock talks of
                  it

                                 aI
                                                                      a
                                                                                                           a
six months' review; upon this hint suggested secular review.

Spinetto has been trying to collect body of Cambridge reviewers.

may-V'-. ,.. . . _._-._ .. _-_v _ a, -- _.w-an-__ -~¢¢_-.._ . a,

                    REV. 11. J. ROSE. 1817.                          21

    He proposed to Peacock that he and Bland should take the

    I Imathematics, which did not at all quadrate with George's notions.
       believe the thing has fallen through. have thought frequently

    of something like a magazine or periodical collection of essays

    upon all subjects, scientific, literary, spectaton'al, or any other.

    It would give us more liberty than any form. If its circulation

    Iat Cambridge were a matter of much importance, have no doubt

    that we might annex to it a sufficient quantity of Cambridge

    mathematics neatly done to make it sell here--an odd expedient

    Iin the way of bladders to make it swim, but think it would

    answer. The remainder of the publication Which should be much
    Ithe largest part might, do not doubt, be so written as to do
    Imuch good here and elsewhere.
                                           cannot tell whether you will
    Ifind anything in all that have said, but let me know, and

    consider my situation, you know now reading for an examination

                  Afiigit humo divinaa particulam aurae.

    I Ihope when have got my troubles here over to be able to

think more freely.a           which not improbable, feel tendency
                              is           I it I
to gulp some other than Cambrid`ge- air will' go to see Jones,itisI-
                         If,                    II
and shall be able to arrange matters much more to my ownIa
    II
satisfaction. Whittaker with Jones at present.

      have not made any agreement with Deighton.                     have left

the matter in state of suspense; When do you come up to
Cambridge? If be soon will leave
                              I                                      so till you arrive, for

    acknowledge, my dear Mr Editor, that have much more
I `I
   Ico4nfidence in your powers of managing booksellers than in mine.
           am glad Mr Rose has determined to send your brother here.

    shall rejoice to see one of family all of whom recollect with
                              a

so much pleasure, and' by all of whom                                should wish to be

kindly remembered. For the sake of consistency in your kind

ness, my dear Rose, let me hear from you soon. Paynter talked

of writing to you to-day.                                            fellowship--to which
     Keen here and believe reading for
        is

                 I

                                                                  a

that we may all come may, &c., &c.

    My dear Mr Editor believe me ever most truly yours,

                                           WILLIAM WHEWELL.

22. REV. R. JONES. 1817.

JMY DEAR ones,  TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 16, 1817.

I have not often been more severely mortified and irri_
Itated than have been to-day on finding the tricks fortune has

been playing me the last week. The freedom from all immediate

cares and occupations which the end of an examination brought

with it induced me to realize a project of a visit to you which has

long been floating before me in the region of desirable possibilities.

A series of blunders brought me within a few miles of you for two
days and sent me hither to learn it. My first piece of ill luck was

the not seeing Whittaker before he set off to you : in consequence

I Iof which was ignorant of your locality. In fact left Cambridge
Ia day or two after Whittaker, under the impression--got cannot
Itell how--that you we're at Tunbridge: whither wrote to you
I Iand where was proceeding to seek you if had not met with

somebody in London who informed me that you were not there.

I then found Musgrave who told me you were at Petworth--and to
IPetworth proceeded on Saturday last. Conceive my disappoint- I

ment when, upon alighting from the coach and making rapid

enquiries about you, mine host informed me that Mr Jones went to
London on Thursday. He introduced some episode or other about

Ianother gentlemen in spectacles who was with Mr Jones, but as

could not possibly know that your eyes had failed you or imagine

Ifrom the familiar way in which he mentioned your name that he

had mistaken Whittaker for you, paid little attention to him. It
will do me much good if you will write me word that you have

                                                 you think
I
        it I

                                                                              a

                                          I it it,

                                                                 if
                                                                                          it
broken the knave's head or got your clerk to do

inconsistent with the character of a minister of peace to use your

hands for any purpose except to give effect to sentence. To add

to my good fortune, next day was Sunday and was not possible

to return to town by any common conveyance.      had nothing to

do but to gird my practical philosophy about me and amuse myself

as could.   went on to Arundel that evening--rode over to see

Chichester cathedral next day--went on Monday to look at the

castle and at the Roman pavements at Bognor, and in the course of

Tuesday and Wednesday conveyed my body to the great pyramid

here where  will now perhaps rest for some centuries longer.

          REV. R. JONES. 1817.                   23

I had soon satisfied myself that it was to no purpose to seek you
I Iin London, but it was not till got here that learnt from
I'Whittaker what a blind and blundering journey had had. My
Ivexation was great in proportion to the pleasure had so narrowly
Imissed.
          had trusted to revive many old and acquire many new
Iideas; and more especially just now when have cleared away

the obstacles that stood between me and the speculations about

Iwhich we used to talk, had anticipated much edifying discourse

upon the past the present and the future. Such a meeting would

have been no small object in a life which, as Mad. Neckar says of

Ihers in a letter which recollect your admiring, is a succession

rather of ideas than of events. It grieves me to the soul to have

Imissed all this, but am so completely discouraged by the disap
Ipointment that have not the heart to begin to anticipate over

again. But to make me some amends overcome your uncor

responding disposition and write to me. Among many other
Ithings wanted to talk to you about the Review which Rose says
Iis again labouring into existence.
                                     made many objections, but
Ithe amount of them was that do not think we have strength for

it-----including knowledge, reading, time, habits of writing--and,

which would be a great matter in ensuring the success of a laud

able undertaking, weight in the literary world. For my own part
Iif am not deceiving myself a year or two would give me much
I Imore confidence in what could do. At present do not believe

I should be worth anything--if however you carry the project into
Iexecution and can find anything for me to do will exeit all the
I Ipowers have. What does Herschel think of it?
                                                 shall have

Rose and Whitcombe here in a day or two and we will talk of it.
I I Ihave got several projects for mathematical works.
                                                 think
Icould at least be useful but have not put any of them in a

tangible shape yet. Saw Slegg in town. He is much as usual but

I I Ifancied discovered an energy in his character which was not

aware of before. With motive and a friend who was acquainted with
Ihis domestic circumstances should not despair of seeing him an
Iactive man even yet.
                       am very angry with our seniors for con

demning Higman to another year of academic trifling. With the

kindest recollections of the pleasure and more than pleasure that

24 siR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1818.

I Ihave owed to you and hope shall again, believe me sincerely

yours--W. WHEWELL.

                June 19, TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.

DEAR HERscHEL,

               sas as  =1:

      I was in town soon after you and was to have gone lwith
IBabbage to Sir Joseph Banks's when was seized with a most

critically unfortunate illness. Jones writes me word that he has

I Ialmost blown off his arm with an unlucky powder flask, and asks

me to go to see him which think shall do. -I understand

from Peacock that you are untwisting light like'whipcord, cross

examining every ray that passes within half a mile, and putting
the awful question "polarized or not polarized " to thousands that

Iwere never before suspected of any intention but that of moving

in a straight line. On any cloudy day` that you have got should

be very happy to hear what the sunshiny ones produce. In a

I Ifew weeks remove to' Barmouth in Merionethshire where stay

till October.

                Always truly yours'W. WHEWELL.

                                                                                CAMBRIDGE, June 19, 1818.

   DEAR JONES,

          After losing sight of you so long it was with no common

Isatisfaction that received your assurance of your still being in the
Iworld and out of humour with it: for should almost have doubted

the former fact if it had not been confirmed by the latter. My

pleasure was in some degree alloyed by not receiving this testi

mony under your own hand, and by the history you give of the

Icause of this flaw in the evidence; but after so much good am
Iwilling to hope more : and therefore trust that flesh wounds will

cicatrize, arteries anastomose, and that your hand will be ready to

receive a friendly shake in a fortnight. My summer campaign
does not begin till the beginning of July, and as the pages of

I Iexistence which have before me at present are rather insipid,

am much tempted to turn back a few leaves and read with you

some of the annals of your Cambridge days. We cannot recall the.

                  REV. R. JONES. 1818.              25

I ICambridge of that time completely, but have no doubt shall

find much more of it in Sussex than there is left in Cambridge.

IYou are, you say, much the same, and have not been acted on by
I Iany society have since seen as was by that, and we shall there

fore, notwithstanding the eternal flux of all things corporeal and

intellectual, easily recognize each other and slide back a couple of

years without a jolt.

   I am going to lead my flock of pupils to graze at the foot of
ICader Idris. On my road to seat myself in the giant's chair

Ishall proceed in the first place to London, and for the satisfaction

of seeing the best of all Welshmen first will set off ayfew days
Isooner and diverge into Sussex.
                                  will not stake my reputation
Ifor punctuality by telling you the exact day when hope to see

you, but it will be within a day or two of Sunday the 28th,

Ipossibly on Saturday the 27th, that may have the satisfaction

of seeing and hearing your reverence in the pulpit--though, on

recollection, with your wounds you will not be able to wrestle with

Ithe evil one. At all events that day is as likely as any other.
  am almost tired of this vile alternation of grinding in Cambridge

and out of Cambridge, but as yet there is not much else to be

done. It has kept me still lamenting, as you have known me

Ilament, over my ignorance and the small probability of its being

dissipated. There is one thing however which am doing for
Iwhich if you have a drop of Celtic blood in your veins you ought
to reverence me.  have begun to read Welsh and have already

made some fierce attacks on Taliessin Ben Bevidd and Llywarch

I IHen: now anticipate with much eagerness the time when

shall hear a genuine U and ngh uttered by a Cymro throat.

   I was either at London or at Oxford when your letter arrived
Ihere: and have not answered it immediately, not out of any

feeling of justifiable revenge for your long silence but from a

sluggishness of the correspondential faculties which does not allow
I Ime to be very vindictive towards such inaction.
                                        have, am

ashamed to say, hitherto forgotten to give your message about

I Iyour parcel to Whittaker, but will remedy that omission before

sleep.                                                                                                    _

                  Ever truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

26 REV. H. J. ROSE. 181.8.

                               Trumrr COLLEGE, June 24, 1818.

   MY DEAR Rosn,
   ~ saaa

      IWith respect to Butler it is long since read him. At the
Itime however thought there was more close reasoning, fighting

the ground inch by inch, fairly taking hold of a difliculty and

Isqueezing it hard till its bulk dwindled to nothing, than had

often seen. You are to consider however that it is a book of

negatives. Its object is not to prove, but to remove the presumpf
tions against, natural and revealed religion. In the Chapter you

mention he does not undertake to establish a future state, but

merely to shew that the persuasion against it which is perhaps

the first impression produced by the phenomena of dissolution, &c.

is unfounded on any sufficient reasoning, and this, you seem to

Iallow, his analogies do for him. This is think his plan all the

way through ; he never ventures to the positive side of the line ;

content if he can expel the enemy, he does not attempt to make

conquests; he clears the ground and then leaves revelation and

other arguments to erect the building. He attacks disbelievers,

but has very little to say to mere`unbelievers.  In consequence of

this his book has rather a sceptical effect; he disposes of so many

arguments that have a good sound look at first, that he leaves you

with an idea that reason is much more lucky in finding flaws than

in mending them, and that you may disprove with much more

certainty than you can prove.

             it a a a

                               Oxnnuuwou, Aug. 21, 1818.

DEAR JONES,

         In the article of letters my pen is not that of a ready

Iwriter, otherwise should have employed it sooner to inform you
Ithat am here and to remind you of your plan of visiting Snowdon.
I Ishould not easily forgive myself if had neglected this till you

had put yourself on the Barmouth road, for that would be, to say

it,

                                           I
                                                  I
the best of giving you much superfluous Welsh travelling.

did' not at all succeed in my plan of getting thither.  made

                       REV. R. JONES. 1818.                               27

Idivers unsuccessful attempts to penetrate through S. Wales, but

being repulsed both at Bristol and Worcester was obliged to

                       is
                                  a

                               I

                                               a

                                              it

                                                           is,

                                                        it

                                                     I
betake myself to Shrewsbury, which           appears, the only point

at which there         any chance of entering N. Wales. Within

the space of two days after reached Barmouth was joined by

nearly the whole of the party, and being resolved upon investiga

tion that Barmouth was not proper local habitation for the

summer, we performed nomadic expedition hither, where we are

at present comfortably established. Among other advantages

Caernarvon has that of offering much greater temptations for

your expedition than Barmouth or almost any other place. The

chain of hills which extends from Conway to the book of Caernar

vonshire  crossed by four or five passes all of which afl'ord
          a I is
exceedingly fine scenery and almost all within half a day's journeyis

of us. The top of Snowdon an easy day's excursion and you
                       is

                           I
                                                     I
may take a horse and ride within a mile or two of the top.

have been there but once. While stood there great shapeless

clouds and heavy mists came rolling up the inland side choking

up the valleys and blotting out the hills; when they reached the

point where stood they paused leaving the other half of the view

round me clear and sunny, so that seemed- to stand in the middle
                       I
                                 I

                                             I

                                                                               a
of the first day of creation, with all on one side, chaos, and all on
the other, world. You get from Shrewsbury to Bangor by the

coach; which only nine miles hence--and the road believe

through some of the finest parts of "Tales.  can easily provide

you with  bed at my lodgings as they were calculated for

family, and you will see cromlechs and mountains and lakes in

abundance; and when you get to the top of Snowdon you shall

shew your contempt of the world in any way you like.

am cramming seven pupils but living comfortably enough
I
               I

                                     is

                               I iIf
                                                                      is
                                                                    it

                                                      I
withal. One of them    going to leave me. One advantage of

having my hands so full of employment that allows me to

dream of undertakings metaphysical, philological, mathematical

and others which would execute        had time. In the mean

while nothing prospersbut Mechanics.         have additional reasons

for wishing to get that afloat as soon as possible. Monk has

written to offer me the mathematical lectureship which have

28 SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1818.

                                   I

Iaccepted ; so that there is hope of doing some good, though

shall be obliged to talk with some moderation of Wood1 for the first

year till there is a better book extant. Pray let me hear from you

Isoon and know when you are coming. want much to know how

you go on in mind and body--how your lame hand how Kenty's
           I
                         I

                                                                                   is,
business and his pamphlet proceeds, and how moral sentiments and

political economy prosper.       have not done much in the way of

Welsh, but am in a fair way to be convinced that Madog ap

Owen Gwynedd discovered America about three centuries before

Columbus.                                          ''

           Dear Jones, always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                       Tmmrx COLLEGE, Nov.
                                 it                                                                      1818.
                                                                                                     1,
DEAR HERSCHEL,

       Your account of your optical experiments came most

welcome to Caernarvon where      found me employed in grinding

down several specimens of senior sophs, who however were much

less promisingthan your pieces of nitre, as they will not take

a very high polish nor are they likely to exhibit any brilliant

phenomena. Since came here have been looking at the
II                               I
                                        I
            it
                                                    I
                    is
                                                                            it
                           1 itPhilosophical Transactions with the intention of comparing

                     is Iwith your account, but a host of new occupations which have not

yet learnt the art of reducing into a small compass of time have

not left me much leisure for such studies.  can perceive however

that you are treading close on the heels of Brewster and, so far as

can make out, that Brewster has got a long way ahead of Biot

in the race of discovery which has been going on for some time.

cannot help considering you as extremely fortunate in finding,

just when your mathematical and physical knowledge had made

you want such an opportunity of applyingof         so rich a field of

                                                    it,

                                                                  if
discoveries where                hardly possible to observe much and accu

rately without finding something new. Facts about the minute

properties of light are accumulating beyond measure: and you

go on      impossible that some of the general laws which are

enveloped in them should not fall to your share. Brewster's

                   Dr Wood's Elements  Mechanics.

sIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1818.                                  29

papers are very beautiful, but they always seem, especially the

theoretical part, to want some of that mathematical distinctness

which might be given them, and in consequence his theories, that

Iof the elliptical rings for instance, are not satisfactory without

more attention than have yet been able to give them. Your

Iaccounts of what you are doing will always be very grateful, for
   have an exceeding curiosity to see to what this stream of new

facts is tending, and what degree of simplification we may expect
in the general laws at which we shall finally arrive. There is

another point of view which occurs to us lookers on, who, not

making a single experiment to further the progress of science,

employ ourselves with twisting the results of other people into all

possible speculations mathematical, physical, and metaphysical.

What are the final causes of these phenomena and their use in

creation? It is true, as Bacon says, that speculations about final

causes are like vestal virgins, pretty, dedicated to Heaven, and

barren : yet still it is difficult to believe that the laws which pro
duce all this multitude of phenomena should exist if it were not

that some good purpose is or may be answered by them, or that

they are necessarily comprehended in other laws which act a

more prominent part in the system of the universe. Thus if our

accuracy of observation had increased before the discovery of

gravitation, so as to discover all the moon's inequalities, we might
Iin the same way have been puzzled why they existed.
                                                              acknow

ledge however-that such disquisitions are more fitted for those

metaphysical prancers who `shew all their paces, not one step

advance', than for you who are riding forwards as if the devil

Iwere after you. Have you made anything of your red and green

conchoids yet? There has not, think, much been done in the

determination of a curve from its difi'erent forms when its con

stants change, which is a problem which your images seen through
Ifilms immediately suggest.
                             have to thank you for your Isope

rim 1. Woodhouse who, though he is muddy-headed about other

matters as well as Isoperimetricals, generally does good by his

books, has just published one, which was much wanted, on Phy

     1 The article on Isoperimetrical Problems in Brewster's  Edinburgh En
cyclopaedia.

    3O SIR J. F. w. HERSOHEL. 1818.

    Isical Astronomy. From the little have seen of
                 it                                                        seems as

                                                                             a

                                                                             it,
                                                                           it
                                                                                                     is
    deficient in neatness and symmetry as well may be; but that will

    not prevent       from being very useful. The great point to

    have detached from the formidable mass of generalities of the

    writers on Celestial Mechanics parts of moderate size and

    tractable shape. He has put a quantity of new mathematics in

    circulation in the university, as in his former books, and people

    will be found who will work up into better forms. The subject
is
                                                                           will be read.
                           if

                                        it
                                                                       it
      so interesting that  the book be readable

    Even Vince had constantly people making attacks upon him

    though he was always found to be impregnable. Accordingly

       consider this as an epoch in Cambridge mathematics. In
is I                                               ;

                                                     it

                                                            I

                                                                          a
                                                                                  a
    year or two will become senate-house book--especially as W.
                 it
                       if

                                    a
                                         aa
      known to have no liking for the ultra-analysts--and should

    not be surprised   in short time we were only to read few

    propositions of Newton as matter of curiosity   would however

    as yet be treason to breathe such an idea to most people. You

    see that talk to you about these matters taking for granted that
       I

    you still retain some interest for your old plan of reforming the

    mathematics of the university.               have now more in my power
                                             Ia I  is it

                                                          I

                                                                                         of
    to further this laudable object by the situation have taken

    assistant tutor e. Mathematical Lecturer) here. Whatever may
    be the disadvantages of the office this one of its advantages.
                 (i.
    shall have a permanent and official interest in getting the men
I                    aI

    I                              is
forwards--I shall have an opportunity of directing their reading--

and shall write books (good ones of course) and be able to put
them in circulation. By using such powers Wisely but discreetly

    much may be done.      have the first volume of a system of me

    chanics, containing statics and little dynamics, ready for the
    Itpress.
              consists in great measure of a classification of pro

    blems. To serve as an elementary book introductory to the higher

    applications of mechanics one object, and another to establish
                                                    is

                                                       I
    the science on simple and satisfactory principles, which do not

    think has been done. By the by Wish you would tell me upon

    what principles or proof you suppose that      assumed in French
                                                   it

                                                        is
                                                               is

                                                                                    is
books of mechanics, that velocity communicated by pressure as

pressure directly and mass moved inversely. It generally done

ARCHDEACON HARE. 1 8 1 9.                                   31

very quietly without any hesitation by taking the accelerating

force f; and multiplying by m the mass, which they say gives mf

the force producing motion. Our moderators are Gwatkin and

IPeacock; in G. have great confidence, he is cautious but reason

able, and he has been reading a good deal of good mathematics.

Whittaker is employed in confuting a man of the name of Bellamy,

who has been translating the scriptures out of Hebrew though
Icertainly not into English.
Ihis red right arm.           believe he is very soon to put forth

                     shall be obliged to you to tell me how you

found Jones, for it is hopeless to expect to hear immediately from

Ihis Reverence. When saw him it seemed very unlikely that he

should ever have the use of his right thumb, which must nip some

of his political and metaphysical lucubrations in the bud--for he

will not venture to dictate treason and what is worse. There are

few things which will give me morepleasure than to hear from

you whenever you have half an hour to spare. Your experiments
I Ishall rejoice to see both on their account and yours.
                                                            find in

the people here very little sympathy to keep alive the ardour for

physical knowledge. Pray have you not begun to torture calves'

feet jelly or to subject glass to the peine forte et dure and to
the hot iron? In the case of jelly what is in the name of the
is
principle of sufficient reason, which determines the neutral and
            1
depolarizing axes? Believe me, Dear Herschel, ever sincerely
                                                     a it,
yours W. WHEWELL.

                                                                              [CAMBRIDGE]. Feb. 25, 1819]

   MY DEAR HARE,
                               *- s s

        It no doubt a circumstance calculated to make one

distrust one's feelings and opinions very much to find that cha
racter depends so much upon situation. There seems to be
scarcely any alternative between seeing objects tinged with false
colours by viewing them through the medium of professional
habits or favourite pursuits, and seeing them perfectly colourless
and uninviting by establishing yourself in a vacuum of prejudices.
Your profession` has a greater tendency than others to efface the

                              Mr Hare was at this time studying law.

32 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1 8 19.

simplicity and energy of the mind because it is generally culti--

vated more exclusively. The quantity of reading and attention
which it requires, and still more the quantity of trifling and com--

mon place which are necessary, operate as a very heavy window

tax upon the intellect; and in that case of course it is the sky
Ilights which are first shut up. But should conjecture the change
Iin * * '* to be probably owing to another cause.
                                                                                            have
Itold you before, and believe still, that your principles of poetry

are incompatible with the 'mental habits of men existing in a

state of society like ours, and though a man whose age has fixed

his character .past change may remain a lake \poet among towns

and cities, a young man on whose character the seal is yet warm

and soft will most likely have the impression obscured or oblite

rated by being jumbled in a bag with others. Certainly the

writer of that reView seems to look back with an eyerof longing to

the critical daysof Addison. And after all there is no doubt that

those came much nearer the method of the critics of antiquity

than anything that now goes for criticism, which you ought to

allow to be some praise. But we are not very likely to agree on

these points, and you have the advantage of believing that there

is certainty to be obtained in matters of taste. You must allow

that science is a much more satisfactory study: your knowledge

there is undeniableand .its. accumulation eternal and imperishable.

You know what truth is and you are sure that when you possess

it no change of feelings can prevent your holding it fast and

reaching it to future ages. It is true that besides mere Reason

there is much in the spiritual nature of man, that his reasoning

powers are but a small portion of his existence, but all the rest of

him_ is so mysterious and unaccountable, so capricious in its ope

rations, appearing in general to acknowledge the authority of

reason and yet eluding her grasp when she attempts to bring it

Ibefore her judgment seat, that can make nothing of it and could

almost find in my heart to forswear speculating about and to be
                        it

                            is
                                                                                it,

                                                                                        is
content to feel and love the beautiful, or what seems so to me,

without knowing why or caring wherefore--Adieu. This non

sense, but fortunately  not the first you have heard me talk.

                        Yours always, w. W.

                 REV. R. JONES. 1819.                                           33

    JDEAR ONES,                                        [BRIGHTON]   [September, 1819.]
                                                                   New Ship 11m, 10 o'clock.

               The Nancy is safe at the bottom of the Channel along
with every ounce of our luggage. We are safe here and quite

unincumbered with superfluities. If you can lend each of us a

change of linen (stockings, shirt and cravat) and Sheepshanks a
black coat besides, you will be rewarded in this world or the next}

for your charity to such poor shipwrecked souls.

                            Yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

    D Tam. Conn, Sept. 26, 1819.

   MY DEAR HARE,

         I believe Sheepshanks wrote you word from Brighton
Ithat we were just going to France. So thought at that time
Ias well as he; and nevertheless at present am not spending my

mornings at the Louvre and my evenings at the Theatre Francais,

but writing mechanics and indulging occasionally in the Barnwell

theatricals. The explanation of this is simply that we have been

shipwrecked. We sailed about 9 in the evening that S. wrote to

you, and before we had been out two hours by great mismanage~

ment ran foul of another vessel, so as almost to stave in our own.

\Ve instantly got out of and by still greater absurdity allowedI
                              it,
it  to go down without saving a single article of our baggage. We
                                                    -
were landed at Brighton the next morning by the vessel which

had thus disposed of our unfortunate packet; and making what
refitments we could, with the assistance of Jones who resident
                                                                   I
there, we next day wended our way dolorous and discontented              is

towards our English homes, untravelled and unportmanteaued.

Our persons were never believe in any danger and was rather
mortified to be the victim of a wreck so tame as ours was. Ex

cept that after we had left our packet the two vessels worked and

rolled together very furiously, and at last the mast of the packet

came thundering down with a great crash, there was nothing

picturesque in the affair.  We lost every thing even to our hats
      w. II.
                                                                             3

3 4 AROHDEACON HARE. 1 8 1 9.

and Sheepshanks's smart frock, and were of course quite disabled

from proceeding. There may perhaps be some things which

Undine's relatives may never before have had an opportunity of

seeing; for instance an air-jacket of S.'s which could not even save

itself, and some sheets of my mechanics which were to have been
Ifinished at Paris. However there is good in everything; believe
I should have done better to have taken your advice to stay here
I Iand finish my book, and now have no alternative.
                                                          should

have made great confusion by spending this month out of England,
Ibut while the voyage was in prospect resolutely shut my eyes
Iupon _the future.
                    am now likely to be out by the end of
I IIfOctober.
               believed in omens as much as you do, should

suppose that Fortune had taken upon herself the care of my

offspring; for besides sending me here to watch over its birth in

spite of myself, she is going to make me moderator, which Will do

something towards ensuring it a favourable reception.

     Still I' cannot help being mortified that when, after talking

Iso long of going abroad, had condensed my intentions into an

act of volition, my project should be dispersed by a puff of Wind,

Iand left without any addition to my threadbare wardrobe of

ideas, and with a sensible diminution in my more valuable ward
Irobe of bodily vestments.
                            believe Slieepshanks suffered more
Iin the latter respect than did; as for his suit of ideas it is a

sort of buff jerkin that is a most excellent robe of durance, and

he may wear it another season without any inconvenience.
               a s s ja
I was very much obliged to you for the sight of the books you
Isent me. They were all works which had much wished to see ;
Inevertheless
               did not find time to read any but Schlegel's

Ipamphlets on Provencal literature before our disastrous journey.
    brought them to town with me to leave them for you, but

Ihoping to find time to read the other two have brought them

back hither. We are all here busy or eager about the fellOwships.
IThe examination has been moderate.
                                     should think the proba

bility is now for Malkin, Lefevre, Ellis, Stainforth, Gambier.
IAdieu.
         hope your friends the Germans will speculate upon

politics and morals to some purpose. At all events they have the

REV. G. MORLAND. 1819.                                    35

consolation of having a right side and a wrong, which is more
than we can boast who have only to choose between an illegal and
an irrational part.

                                 Ever affectionately yours W. WHEWELL.

                                                             anun`x COLLEGE, Oct. 3rd, 1819.

   DEAR MORLAND,

        If I pretended to any thing like regularity of correspond
Ience should generally have to begin a letter with an apology for

the violation of it; and very often, as at present, my repentance

itself would need to be repented of, for my apology comes so late

that it requires to be apologised for itself. Nevertheless it might

Ihave happened that should have reserved all the valuable com
I Imunications which have to make to you till should see you at

I IChristmas, if it had not been for one circumstance ; which is that
shall in all probability not see you at Christmas.  have just

accepted the office of one of the moderators, which involves me in

employments that will make it impossible for-me to leave Cam

bridge for any length of time till Easter; and as that is a long
Itime to hear nothing of you have resolved without further delay
Ito ask you how you do.
                         should have been glad to do this in
Iperson, but shall, besides my college employments, be engaged in

the duties of presiding in the disputations in the Schools and

examining the candidates in the Senate House. Perhaps you may
recollect in Cumberland's life and-I think also in Kirke White's, an

Iaccount of the disputations which have mentioned. They are

one of the most marked relics in their form of the ancient discipline

of the University. They are held between undergraduates in
pulpits on opposite sides of the room, in Latin and in a syllogistic
form. As we are no longer here in the way either of talking
Latin habitually or of reading logic; neither the one nor the other

is very scientifically exhibited. The syllogisms are such as would

make Aristotle stare, and the Latin would make every classical hair
in your head stand on end. Still it is an exercise well adapted to

try the clearncss and soundness of the mathematical ideas of the

men, though they are of course embarrassed by talking in an

                                                    3--2

36 _REV. e. MORLAND. 1819.

unknown tongue. You would get very exaggerated ideas of the

Iimportance attached to it if you were to trust Cumberland;

believe it was formerly more thought of than it is now. It does

not, at least immediately, produce any effect on a man's place in

the tripos, and is therefore considerably less attended to than used

Ito be the case, and in most years is not very interesting after the

five or six best men: so that look for a considerable exercise of,

or rather demand for, patience on my part. The other part of

my duty in the Senate House consists in manufacturing wranglers,
I                                   while lasts, very laborious.
   Isenior optimes, &c. and
         I

                                       is,

                                           it
                                                       it

                                           I
                                                      I
       might perhaps have surprised you with a letter from

Paris, but my first essay in travelling was peculiarly unsuccess

ful. Perhaps you may have heard one way or other that the

Nancy packet of Brighton sunk on its passage, and that took

the prudent measure of getting out of before that took place.

Never was shipwreck more expeditiously or simply transacted than

ours.  was sleeping quietly on the deck when was roused by a

furious crash caused by our running plump against another ship.

In an instant found myself getting into the other vessel, helping

the sailors to pull ropes, talking bad French to console some women

who were exceedingly frightened, witnessing the mast of the

packet tumble down, and in a short time sailing away and leaving

everything had had with me at the bottom of the Channel. We
I
        I

           I

                                 a
were landed at Brighton next morning, where fortunately clergy
                                                                  it a
man, who was Cambridge acquaintance of mine, was residing,
who helped a little to refit me and my companion, and as soon as

could returned to Cambridge carrying my all with me, dis

burthened of many superfiuities and some necessaries, and doomed

to form plans of peregrinations for another year.

       am much. edified by your loyal manifesto at Lancaster which
is

 I
         it I

                 it I
so harmless that do not see why should not be signed every
                                    I it
fortnight.  am only afraid that you have lost the chance of

being thanked for by Lord Sidmouth by not making strong

enough, for does not even go to the length of saying that if

there be a meeting in the Market Place at Lancaster you will

treat the people as the magistrates of Manchester did their towns

men. There are several names which am surprised not to see

          ARCHDEACON HARE. 1820.                                      37

there--why does not the vicar sign it? Is it that his loyalty is of

so superior a cast that it is not right to shew it in the same way

with other people? And why is your name wanting? Is. it possi

ble, that you do not see the necessity of cutting down people who

though they are standing very quietly may very possibly at some

time, or at least whose sons and grandsons may sometime, do some

mischief to somebody ; and who have, probably got sabres in their
I Iwalking sticks and great guns in their pockets ?
                                               hope, am not

talking treason, but that is a point which in these times nobody

can be sure of ; the air is so tainted with it that a man breathes
                        If be so, beg your pardon and hope
it before he perceives  it.

                                it

                                     I

                                                      it
                                                                  it
you will burn this letter before you read that may do no

harm.

          Dear Morland, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                               July 1,1820.

MY DEAR HARE,                            i

          is            s       s           is
                  s
       The small quantity of festivity which our commencementIs

generally exhibits will be subject to additional deduction in conseit
                                                         it
quence of the death of our Master of which you have most pro
                                                                     is
bably heard. His interment in our Chapel takes place on Monday.
                                                                                              _of
Perhaps too you have heard that Kaye his successor in his

Bishopric. It said that when Kaye received the intelligence

this morning, without any previous expectation of its nature, he

handed the letter to a friend who was sitting with him, observing
that " he had always thought the best plan for advancement to be

to stay quietly at home and do your duty."  am glad of the

choice, for do not know of any body upon whom                         could have
       I

fallen more creditably to us and the givers of it. The disposal

the Mastership of course a matter about which much specu
          is

lated and little known. The general opinion gives to Wordsworth.

If this turn out so, he shall invite his brother here and you shall

come and meet him, and we will be the most poetical and psycho

logical college in the universe, though certainly some of us are bad

materials for such an edifice.

38 REV. JONES. 1820.

I Iam extremely glad to receive you in print. certainly think

you might be more worthily employed than in translation, but life

has room for one such work, and especially when it is to diffuse
Ivaluable ideas and feelings, as know you intend this to do
I(though
          dare say you will not like my phrases), besides being

I Ivery delightful to read, which from your comparison of this with

Undine expect to find it. only hope that you will not become

Ione of a body of septuagint translators of German novels for the

conversion of the heathen. Your preface perceive abuses un

fortunate people who are puzzled with the connexion between the

Imind and the soul as used to be; and who try by anatomizing

to discover the way in which the flesh and muscles of the moral

I Iman act upon the "wordy skeleton" of reason. One thing occurred

to me which from what you say think may venture to tell you.

You have succeeded very well in naturalizing Sintram, if you have

made the work look as unlike a translation from the German,

which it as you have made the preface look like a translation
is,
                                    a

                   I

                                             it

                                                           is
from the same language, which suppose                          not.
                                   aa
                                                             *

                Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                Tnm. Conn, July 16, 1820.

DEAR. JONES,

          was rather surprized to find that you were at Paris,
I

             it

                                    I
having expected to see you in transitu provided our road had

been through Brighton. Sheepshanks and are preparing to

take wing, but  will be nearly a fortnight before we reach

Paris; and having almost given up our original and more

philosophical plan of staying a good part of the summer in

that capital, and of making ourselves thoroughly acquainted

with its state, moral, political, literary and culinary, we have

almost determined upon the commonplace John Bull proceeding

of getting over as much ground as possible in a given time.

We have accordingly been speculating upon the possibility of

staying very short time in Paris, passing through the west
a

of Switzerland, thrusting our heads into Italy, perhaps to Milan,

perhaps even to Venice, returning through the eastern parts of

                   REV. R. JONES. 1820.                     39

Switzerland, and perhaps making a second and rather longer

stay at Paris on our return. \Ve are not quite resolved upon
the outline of our tour and still less on the detail, and the

temptation of seeing and speculating with you on the whims
of the Parisians would be almost sufficient inducement to per--

suade us to add a week to our first sojourn there, if we cannot

persuade you to go with us and luxuriate among the scenery of

Ithe Alps and the marble walls of Venice. But do not think we

can take up our habitation in your suite of apartments according

to your proposal, which would from your account be very desir
Iable if it were possible.
                            shall however hope to find you in

Paris about the 28th, and shall be well pleased to follow your

guidance if you have nothing better to do than give it us. It

Iis with great regret that think of abandoning the idea of a

month's residence in Paris and only with the reserved hope of
Iindulging in something of the kind at some future period;
                                                            am

very glad that it is a place to put one in good humour with

England, for God knows there is need enough of such a place.

However when your children, the French, are grown to years

of discretion and we are sunk in the decrepitude of age, they

Iwill have the advantage of us.
        am very sorry that you have got your mouth out. of order.

Is it a consequence of too Violent and persevering efforts to
Ipronounce the it properly?
                             hope nothing more serious, for

to be confined to your room in Paris must be provoking enough.

If there be no good reason to the contrary, your being at the

Hotel de Boston is a very good reason for our taking up our abode
there while we stay. We shall, if our present intentions hold, take

Ithe Dover passage, as we have no time to admire the Rouen road.
         wish we could persuade you to take our more extensive

ramble. You would be the better for it all your life afterwards,

and you may take the length and breadth and height of the

French constitution at some future time when the edifice has
Isettled into a more permanent form.
                                      trust we shall be able

to come to some plan of compromise when we see you. Always

most truly yours,

                                         W. WHEWELL.

4O REV. c. MORLAND. 1820.

LAUSANNE, Sept. 1st, 1820.

DEAR. MORLAND,

      I Ihave been resolving ever since left England to take

a shot at you from Some part or other of my path, by way of

proving to you what a trifling obstacle distance is in the way 'of

correspondence, if idleness and bad habits were not in operation.
A rainy day here, where the only things to be seen are the

outdoor Views, has left me without any excuse for not executing my

resolution. What kind of communication you are likely to have

from such inspiration is your concern--perhaps you will be very

much disposed to wish, from selfish as well as benevolent feeling,
If Ithat the weather had continued fine.
                                          were disposed to give
Iyou any account of the more recent part of my travels, do not
Iknow exactly how should set about it. Scenery, as has been

observed a hundred times, and found by experiment still oftener,

is not easily made to live in description and look green in black

and white. The country about Geneva and along the banks

of the lake to this place is almost as beautiful as any thing

can be. A lake much larger than Windermere, and of a very

fine shape, forms the floor in the centre. Then the walls that

rise from this are bills as large and picturesque as those about

Windermere on one side, and on the other slopes clothed with

vines and country houses in the best English taste, with neat

Itowns here and there. But this is not all. Beyond the first

range of mountains which have mentioned you see the higher

summits of the Alps clothed in their perpetual snow, looking

with a cold and wintry eye from an immense distance upon the

laughing prospect about you, or sometimes catching the warm

rays of the setting sun when he is so low that they pass above
every thing near you. Add to this that the lake is as superior to

others in its material as in its form and accompaniments--the

Ideep blue colour and bright transparency of its water are so
striking as at first to appear almost unnatural.  am afraid

this will not give you any idea of the luxuriant majesty of the

prospects here, but at all events it may help to shew you how

                   REV. e. MORLAND. 1820.                       41

very easily in attempting any thing of the kind one slides into

I Inonsense d, la. Mrs. Ratclzfi'e.                                                                           ,

       dare say that you would prefer it if                could give you some

                   a
                                           is;

                                     I
account of men and manners, as the phrase                  having like Ulysses

visited the cities of many men, you may fancy ought to know

their minds. But of course progress so rapid as ours does not

admit of much speculation of that kind, or rather admits of

nothing but speculation. Without letters of recommendation,

time, and a complete knowledge of the language, you can get but

  little way into the national character and manners. It no
it a                                                            it it it is
    doubt much easier to go to a certain extent in any country than

      would be for a foreigner in England. They enter into conver

    sation much more easily and fluently, at least in France, though

even there not at the rate had expected. But the greatest
advantagethat way their tables d'hdte. In all the great inns

(except in Paris) almost all the people who are at the inn dine
                   is

                       if I
and generally sup together. To be served en particulie'r, as they

      it,
           is
call rather unusual. Hence you get much better dinners,

much more company, and you set properly to work much more

information than you could any other way. Ladies who happen

to be at the hotel come to table along with the rest, so that                by is is

a good deal different from an English ordinary. In Paris

nearly as      in London. People go to the Restaurateurs
           it

                is
                                                       a
ones, by twos and by threes, and eat what they like; and for the
same money you may certainly get much better dinner in their

Metropolis than ours, including their wines, some of which are

exquisite and would make an impressien even upon you who do

not like claret. My companion, another fellow of our college, will

not allow that their meat so good as ours to begin with, but in
I

        is
                                         is,
                                                 is

                                                       it
general the cook so completely gets dominion over the original

flavour that that  comparatively speaking, a matter of small

importance. You will perhaps think                         very scandalous that

      should talk so much about eating and drinking, but as                  is

a matter which every day requires our attention and about which

a good deal of the little money and little French we brought with

us expended, you need not wonder at its making an impression.

In other matters you are obliged to take some pains to get

42 REV. R. JONES. 1821.

Iinformation, but there it comes of itself.  was three Sundays

at Paris and wished to hear a French sermon or two, but the

Ipeople of whom made my enquiries were so stupid or ignorant,
I Iand was so unfortunate, that have only heard two fragments
I Iof which could only understand a very little, though could

Isee that one of the preachers was much more animated and

familiar than any ever saw in England. But the Church in

France is at present ill provided for and little considered: the

revolution sucked up all its revenues and it has only been restored

on a very economical scale. Neither the feeling nor the wealth

of the country would allow of more. A letter from home in .
a foreign land is always a comfort; if you write to Berne by

the middle of this month your letter will be there before me.

I am going into the heart of Switzerland to return thither. Yours

most truly,

                                             W. W.

                                             August 4, 1821.

DEAR JONES,

It is very provoking that the only time when you are in

the humour and in possession of time to pay Cambridge a visit
I Ishould be when am intending to leave it immediately.
                                                              had

fixed upon Monday to begin a migration northwards : but if your
Ivisit were more certain and longer should be tempted to wait
Ifor it here.
               have been in college about a fortnight, principally

for the sake of writing a little of that bad metaphysics called

Imechanics; and having perpetrated enough of that for the

present, begin to be impatient of wasting fine summer weather

here, knowing by last year's experience that it is not at all wise to

Iput off a journey among mountains to the end of the autumn.

The mountains which have a design upon at present are those
Iof Cumberland and VVestmorland.
                                  have long intended to make
Ithe regular Cockney tour of the lakes.
                                         suppose they are very
Ipretty, and coming almost from the borders of them am ashamed

I Iof never having seen but one of the number, though every day of

my life when am at Lancaster see the heads of the moun

REV. R. JONES. 1821.                     43

Itains in whose laps they lie.  dare say they are not so magni
Ificent as the valleys and lakes of Switzerland but expect they

are of a character which will not set you upon making com
I Iparisons, so it is no matter.
                                shall travel, so far as know at

present, alone and with divers sources of enjoyment or at least
employment. You have no idea of the variety of different uses

Ito which shall turn a mountain. After perhaps sketching it
Ifrom the bottom shall climb to the top and measure its height

by the barometer, knock off a piece of rock with a geological
hammer to see what it is made of, and then evolve some quo
tation from Wordsworth into the still air above it. He has got
some passages where he has tumbled the names of those bills

together till his verses sound like the roaring of the sea or like a

conjuration which would call the spirits of them from their dens.

I Iwish you could come with me but suppose that is impossible.
I believe you have good taste enough to like for a time the

company of hills and rivers and such respectable characters better

than that of the foolish and knavish and miserable people whom

you must see if you travel to extend your knowledge of human

nature and so forth.  Not but that we will do the latter too
sometime or other.    IBut to end where
                                         began. The con

sequence of this plan is that except you can come down here by
I Ithe Fly on Saturday shall, fear, have little chance of seeing
I Iyou at present.
mention the Fly because on Saturday shall

be returning to Cambridge in it the last stage, from a visit on

that road: but`there are now coaches hither at almost all times

Iof the day. The Fly in question sets off think from the George

and Blue Boar at 10 in the morning which is a practicable hour.

   I was obliged to resist Rose's blandishments to entice me to
IBrighton, because we returned by Oxford where staid a few

days with much satisfaction. They are more violently geological

there than we are here and in fact all but the geological people
Iwere out of the University.
                                am really glad that at last one

science, and that a most important and interesting one and

(whatever you may think) with indisputable claims to be called
a science, has not only been vigorously cultivated in the Univer

sities before it had been prosecuted out of them for 100 years,

44 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1822.

which is in itself a new fact, but has owed and is likely to owe its

substance and value in a great measure to academical professors.

Laugh at me, if you choose, for my attachment to this our Diana of

the Ephesians, the University, but the novelty of the circumstance

makes it really curious. Perhaps you can tell me why they are

so slow in abandoning what is obsolete every where else and

adopting what is established every where else, but the fact is so or

nearly so. Like very obstinate artillery-men they stand by their

guns even after they are spiked. However we hope to alter a

good deal of this in time.                                  was
                                                           read
   I Inever had an opportunity of telling you how much
Ipleased with the book of your Romeo and Juliet friend.

it all the way from Brighton to London and was in perfect delight

with his account of the origin of language--0f course you will

Iunderstand because it agreed with my own--and it is moreover
exceedingly clear and well developed.  wonder if he did it
Ihimself. His account of accent am not so well satisfied with,

and about English versification he seems to be all wrong.
I am glad you got the ale and liked it. The brawn cost
I1. 10. 7%. One way or other
                                 will hope to see you by next

Christmas. Cannot you manage to come here sometime next

winter?   I If ISomebody told me you had finally made your Welsh
bargain.  wonder if it be true.        were writing to any body
Ielse in similar circumstances should say let me know if it be
Iso, but am afraid there is no conjuring a letter from the vasty

deep of your inactivity. They will not come when we call

them. Remember me kindly to Rose and likewise to Townsend.

          Always affectionately yours W. WHEWELL.

     N.B. There is nobody in the University.  Peacock is in
Paris, and every body else in divers places.

MY DEAR HARE,           with                 Tam. Conn, May 12, 1822.

    I have just parted           Blackstone who goes away to

Imorrow morning. He hasbeen here since yesterday week and

has been, believe, seeing sights with a most laudable energy

                 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1822.                                45

Iand perseverance. What have seen of him has made me regret
Ithat could not give him more of my time, and he has been so

much liked by those of our Cambridge men in whose company
Iwe have been, that hope he has carried away a favourable
I_ impression of us on his side.
                                  rode over with him to Wimpole,

but as the family were at home we were not allowed to see the

inside of the house, so that we had nothing but the ride and
the sight of the country for our pains, which however at this

time of the year are well worth the while.

   I am going to trouble you with two commissions which.I hope

will not be very inconvenient, though they will both require some

despatch. The first is to ascertain when a person must be in

London to keep the next term (sometime in June) at the Middle

Temple and also to obtain the same information with respect to
ILincoln's Inn.
                    have to send notice of this to a person at Paris

                                 I                      so that        would be

                                                if it,
whose motions are to be regulated by                           8 I it

desirable to have       by return of post               possible. My other
            is
commission       a selfish one.   have never heard Catalani and
               I if it
should be grieved she quitted the stage while that continued

to be the case.       would willingly make the exertion of going

to London one day and returning the next, there were a fair
                                 I

                                                   if
chance of listening to her. Now do not know what faith to put

in her pretence of not issuing tickets beyond the number her

room will bold, but        am not precluded by that should be
                 a

                      iIf
greatly obliged to you to procure me a ticket for Wednesday
next. If such thing be to be had
                                  I        will run the chance of

finding a place in the Union Coach to London by o'clock and

in the Argle rooms afterwards. If you find anything hopeful in

this plan, have the goodness to send my ticket to the care of mine

host of the White Horse, Fetter Lane, who suppose may be
is it
depended on for       charge so weighty.                am afraid}     shall
hardly see you, asI
         I

               if I a
                     I

                                       I
                                             I

                                                         I
                                                        I
                      must return by the earliest coach can find

the next day.

am sorry you do not like the law and the prospects which

offers, especially      you resolve to take to nothing else. There

one way in which think you might do something tfichtig

and which hope you will soon have an opportunity of choosing.

46 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1822.

I mean infusing good principles of taste and scholarship and, if

I Iyou like to call it so, of philosophy, into the rising generations of
academic youth.  do not venture to say more, but hope that
Iyou will receive shortly an explanation of what mean and that
I Iyou will decide as could wish.
                                   should be very sorry if you

voluntarily continued under that hard stepmother, the law, when

you might take refuge so honourably and usefully with your
Ialma mater who likes you so much better. At any rate hope
Iwe shall meet in Cambridge during the vacation.
                                                  think all

my plans of travelling are blown up or will give place to my

Iother plans of working here, so that shall be here during some

part of the summer in all probability.

   I have heard from Sheepshanks who says the Miserere &c. are

not so good as an English oratorio and that the only good things

in the holy week are the illumination of the dome and the

fireworks at S. Angelo. He is too p000 curante a person to be

implicitly followed on those matters, so if you choose we will

Isuppose him wrong, though have received the same account

from another of our fellows who has also been at Rome this

spring. On the whole he seems to be as well pleased as one

should expect him to confess. He is going to leave his sisters

Iat Rome and to proceed to Naples himself.
        must finish in haste and for want of time leave poor Locke
at your mercy, who however little deserves your abuse because

he has done only what he and all other reasonable metaphysicians

pretend only to do, namely give an account of the operations of

his own mind and analyse them to their elements.
                               assu

                 Ever yours truly W. WHEWELL.

   IWe are just going to bring forward another plan for the im-_

provement of the examinations, which have great hopes will pass.

                                                  July 17, 1822.

MY DEAR HARE,

You have determined as well as if you had previously

drunk a gallon of ale or whatever other liquor it was with which

                  ARCHDEACON HARE. 1822.                     47

the ancient Germans used to ballast themselves when they had to

balance weighty matters in their minds. In modern times we go

upon the same principle except that we eat instead of drink--but

Iin both cases suppose the object is similar. The stomach and

the head are like the inside and outside of a coach, and if you give

all the loading to the latter you are in some danger of an overturn.

IBut by whatever process you arrived at your decision am heartily

glad of it. You would have had the question proposed to you

some time ago, but that Brown is very dilatory and the Master

very busy. However it is all very well and you have time plenty

to look forwards to the commencement of your illuminatory course
Iin October.
              augur all great and good things from our combined
Ioperations and think you will find that, whatever there may be

of wearisome and disagreeable in your office there is a great deal

that is animating and gratifying. To be sure, we will be very

rational and persevering and regular but at the same time we will
Ihave an ambition to be something more.
                                         am here and shall

remain for the present. _So come down and we will concert
Imeasures for doing the greatest possible quantity of good.
                                                             sup

pose you have heard or will hear from the Master certain stipula

tions which he chooses to make with every body concerned in the

tuition. They are nothing of any consequence except so far as

they indicate his disposition to introduce a'somewhat stricter and

what he considers, a more paternal superintendence than has pre
Ivailed of late.
                  must not urge you to come without telling you

that we have had some alarm here about a return of our fever.

Some Johnians have died, though none of them in Cambridge.

At present it has disappeared entirely--at least the only two in

Ivalids were recovering fast some days ago. Sheepshanks's letters
find him at the Temple.  wish you could find him and bring

him here. There are several of us in residence, Peacock, Thorp,

Higman's new lecturer, George Waddington &c. You may of
Icourse find rooms here now at half a day's warning.
                                                      do not

know if you will be able to secure good ones next term. We eat

venison and turtle on Friday and dine at four o'clock--if any addi

Itional argument be requisite to bring you here am quite at a loss.

                         Ever yours truly W. WHEWELL.

48 REV. R. .10an. 1822.

             Tnm. Com, Gunmen, Aug. 16, 1822.

DEAR JONES,
II Iwhich
have sent you the Encycl. along with the two pamphlets
mentioned and which suspect to be worth nothing.

The library books must be returned about October to avoid fines;

Ibut will let you know the time more accurately when it
Iapproaches. Now touching metaphysics, am almost surprised at

the fierce burning of your indignation against the poor word. It

is no doubt true that people apply it to the speculations of others

when they want them to appear abstruse and unsubstantial, and

to their own when they would have them seem profound and

philosophical, but if there Were no such word as the one in ques

tion they would find some other to answer those laudable purposes,

Iand do not think that `metaphysical' in itself carries much
Iweight with it. As to its genealogy it is certainly, believe, to be

traced up to Aristotle, or rather his transcribers. His dam-uni are
much the same as our physics as to subject, and the ,uerd 'rd

qSuo-uai were so called either because they were put after the
physics in the books, or were beyond them in the order of `specu

lation. Your proper metaphysician is very angry if you maintain

the former hypothesis. But the word itself was unknown to

Aristotle, and in the books which are headed by it he appears

somewhat at a loss for a name for his science. He generally calls

it "The science of the causes and principles of things ", which you

Iwill allow to be a good science. Of the book itself can tell you

nothing except that it is a great deal about substance and accident

and category and the opinions of philosophers on the universe,

and all the abominations which arise from erecting abstract terms

into principles. Harris's Philosophical Arrangements is said to be

a good deal taken from it. And this is the origin of those fatal

four syllables which have come down even to our times, spreading

darkness and ofi'ence on their course, like a column of smoke from

the pot of some magician. It is' perhaps less, easy to determine,

in all the various and vague senses which float about people's

minds when they use what the distinct and precise meaning
             it,
                           is

to which they may most naturally be considered as approxima

                    REV. R. JONES. 1822.                                                                                    49

tions. This is all that you can do in such a case, like determining

the brightest point in a nebula. Sometimes you can separate

Iyour misty spot into two or three more distinct ones. But think

certainly if you will not allow `metaphysical' to have its appli

cation to the philosophy'of mind you will find no precise use for
it. In general it seems to mean either that which depends upon

the examination of our intellectual powers and properties, or that

kind of reasoning, depending upon the legerdemain of abstract

terms, which the origin of the term would attach to it. In the
Ifirst sense do not know any one word to substitute for
                                      *  I                                                                                  and

paraphrases are bad things.                     *         *
                                                             *
By the metaphysics
                                                                              it,
is                                    mathematics mean the examination of

              if

                                   3

                               of
the laws and powers of the mind on which their evidence de

pends, the analysis of their principles into the mest simple

form and, you choose, the history of their development. It

not easy to stick to the distinction between-this and the logic

of the science but the latter examines the accuracy of your mode

of deducing conclusions from your principles, and the former your

way of getting your principles. The metaphysics
                                         if

                                                           is of

                                                                                       is
                                                       language

equally intelligible, for the mutual influence of mental operations

and signs to be called metaphysical,         the word  to have any
I
        is
                       I`
reputable signification. But What your wiseacres mean by the

Metaph. of Polit. Econ. cannot tell; for there are no peculiar

principles of observation or deduction employed in that science--

they may as well talk of the metaphysics of chemistry. The thing

which suppose leads them into error that some abstract terms
                                         is

are necessarily introduced in your science, and some even referring

to the moral and intellectual qualities of man, and that block

heads have thought themselves usefully employed in increasing

the number.  have no objection to your calling those people
I

                    is

              I
                                 I

                                                                    if

                                                                                                                         4
metaphysical in the scurrilous meaning of the word who, like Say

and Hauterive, `eonfound the language of the nation with long

tailed words in osity and ation'. But never mind other people

call you so--being well assured that you and 'Malthus belong not

to the metaphysical but to the ethical school of Political Economy.

have no time to write more.           am printing at a great rate, but
             growing monstrously too large. If you would come
my book

w. II.                                                 -

50 sIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1822.

here we could discuss these matters with great effect. Sheepshanks
is here, and Peacock going out but returns shortly. Adieu.

                                                Ever yours W. WHEWELL.

                                                      Oct. 17, 1822.

DEAR HERSCHEL,

    I am afraid you are by this time tired of hearing of Mount

Rosa and discussing the question as to what part of her body

I Iyou crawled upon, but believe promised you the outline which
I made from the opposite side of the Valais of her and her neigh
Ibours, and have accordingly sent it on the other side of the

sheet`. The view was drawn at the head of the pass of the

IGemmi, and principally for the purpose of giving my memory

a stronger hold upon one of the most splendid scenes ever saw.

The whole range from Mt. Rosa to Mt. Blanc was as bright as

snow and sunshine could make except the little streak of cloud,it,

which have indicated towards thev middle. The outline, so farI
I                                is
    I            tolerably correct as to the general features, and

           I is
as recollect,

the one which have called Mt. Rosa certainly what the guides

told me was Mittaghorn so far as understood their German.

You see  it  appears a good deal insulated and of a respectable

comparative bulk. Mt. Blane cannot be seen without going

higher than the road. We climbed about half-an-hour to the

east of the top of the pass to get to the point of view. Of course
you will not attach any importance to the opinions of the people
about the place, but learnt from some persons who were there
this spring and willing to make the ascent of Mt. Rosa, that
1

                   it

                aI I

                                                                                      a

                                                                                 is
                                                                                                        a
there men were quite persuaded you could not have been to the
top in consequence of the shortness of the time which you em

ployed. They maintain that no less a time             requisite than

Mt. Blane requires.  suppose they think their dignity injured

by your doing in less period.                                                                              pupil of
     You have of course heardfrom Peacock of Airy,

       The letter contained a. pen and ink sketch of  portion of the Alps, including
Mt. Rosa, the Matterhorn, and Mt. Blane.

                    BISHOP MONK. 1823.                . 51

his, and certainly a man of very extraordinary talents. The

reports about Babbage's machine have, it seems, excited him to

attempt something of the same kind. He and another man have

made a machine to solve cubic equations, but besides this he has,

Iso far as can make out, invented something a good deal in the

way of Babbage's contrivance. He is not here at present, but

his friend tells me that it has got toothed wheels, working in one
Ifway for the differences and in another for the digits.
                                                                 it be

Ia similar invention to that, it is probably an independent one;

for do not know any way by which he has got any lights about
IBabbage's affair.
                    will enquire into it as soon as he returns.
I Icannot conclude without wishing to offer, as far as can

without exciting too many painful reflections, my condolence

on your recent loss. Few persons have got so many sources of

consolation; and it is much to know that he saw as much as he

could hope to see of your progress with pride and pleasure, and

that he could anticipate the illustrious name he delivered to you

becoming more illustrious in your hands. These are feelings

which must soothe at least the complaints of natural affection.

Excuse me for having said so much, and believe me, '

Dear Herschel, your sincere and faithful friend, W. WHEWELL.

[The next two letters are to Dr MONK, Dean of Peterborough, after
                           wards Bishop of Gloucester]

                                                                                                        June 2, 1823.

   MY DEAR MR DEAN,

      I am on the point of leaving Cambridge for a considerable
Iportion of the .vacation, and before quit the venerable walls of
ITrinity for a time, venture to trouble you with a few lines.
I should have thanked you sooner for my pleasant visit to
IPeterborough if had not hoped that you would take for granted

mysense of your kindness, and if Peacock had not promised to tell

I Iyou that it is still a favourite subject of recollection. Since that

time believe have to claim your congratulations on my admis
sion into the Tuition. By an arrangement which has lately been

Imade, Mr Brown and are to conduct the affairs of one side

                                                                                         4--2

52 BISHOP MONK. 1823.

jointly for the ensuing year, after which he retires entirely from
Ithe office.
              shall do my best to keep up its former glories.
I am sincerely sorry that we are no longer to have your

Iassistance in the capacity of Greek professor. The notice of your

resignation was brought to the Master to-day while was with

him. We all naturally feel much interest as to who is to be your

successor in an office which it is so difficult to fill. Dobree and

Evans refuse'to be candidates`. Ward is talked of but his inten

Itions are not known. Scholefield will, believe, certainly be a

Jcandidate, and as the ohnians will of course have one, it is said

Hastings Robinson is to be theirs. It appears to me that Hare is

a person much more likely to make a great scholar and to fill the

Ioffice worthily than any of the others, and have done what
I could to persuade him to offer himself. He is fully sensible of

the disadvantages under which he lies in making his claims on

Ithe University, and am afraid his merits are hardly sufficiently
Iknown as yet. If you agree with me, which should hope might
Ibe, from the opinion which have heard you express of him,
I have no doubt that you might produce a great effect on the

minds of some of the electors by stating your opinion. The Bishop
I Iof Bristol, am persuaded, would be much influenced by it.
                                                               do
Inot know whether it is necessary to say that am convinced, as
I believe every body is who has known Hare lately, that he would

be as valuable for his temperate and sober judgments in practice,

Ias for his knowledge of Greek, which, if could presume to judge,

I should suppose to be uncommonly extensive and accurate. And
I think there is no person who is so likely to feel the responsi

bility of the situation and to exert himself vigorously and perse

veringly to cultivate the knowledge to which it refers. High as
Iyour opinion may be of his qualifications,
                                             have no doubt that if
Ihe should succeed he would more than justify it. If am fortu
Inate enough to agree with you shall think myself happy, and

certainly to Hare it may be of great consequence, as the nature

of his career through the University has hardly been such as

to give him anything to refer to as a proof of his capability.

              1 Mr Dobree was elected.

                BISHOP MONK. 1824.                     53

I shall leave England in less than a. week. My immediate

destination is for the abbeys and cathedrals of Normandy, after
Iwhich my route is rather uncertain. In September
                                                       take my

state'as Tutor. Pray present my best respects to Mrs Monk, and

believe me

            - Ever most truly yours W. WHEWELL.

     The subscription for the building goes on very well. The sum

at present is about £4200, including the £2000 from the College.

                                                                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                               _ Oct. 17, 1824.

   MY DEAR MR DEAN,

       I should have addressed a letter to you before this time, if
Iit had not been that hoped to acquire for you more definite
Iinformation on the subject of some of your commissions than

have hitherto been able to obtain. In consequence of King's
Iabsence from the University during the vacation, had no means
Iof acquainting myself with the state of his library.
                                                       have now

learnt that he does not possess either Ernesti's Cicero or the Oratores
IfGraeci.
            you will give me your instructions with respect to the
Imatter which you formerly mentioned
Iexecute them.                        shall be most happy to

                have not been able yet to extract from our Junior

IBursar (Macfarlane) the rent of your last rooms: but as the

Master will, believe, inform him that an order of the seniority

was made such as you mention, he will perhaps allow himself to

be convinced before long. The alterations in progress and in

Iproject here are so numerous that hardly know how to give you

an account of them. Our new court goes on prosperously towards

its completion. \Ve expect to be able to inhabit three staircases

of it in a week or two, and we have had as much difficulty in

I Ielecting bed-makers as we had in electing the four new Fellows.

With the latter election hope you are satisfied, as, think, they

have taken the four best men. The new buildings at Corpus are

going on with equal splendour, and still more at King's. But

what is doing bears no proportion to what is hoped to be done, as

you probably have heard. The alterations contemplated, of course

with various degrees of confidence, extend almost from Peterhouse

54 BISHOP MONK. 1824.

to St John's. The proposed site of the future "Pitt Press" is the

Iground opposite St Botolph's Church, where the University have a

good deal of land, and where, learn, as member of a Syndicate

for the purpose, we have an opportunity at present of buying

more. The houses which narrow the street on each side of

ICatharine Hall, will, hope, be removed before we have done, and

the opposite side of the street to Rutlidge's corner is to come down

in the course of next year. When the old houses at King's are

demolished, this will lead us to St Mary's by a fine open street, and

then, en passant, we will reform the portico and knock ofi` the balls

from the steeple. Then we come to the great debateable ground
Iof Caius.
            hardly know what to- expect as the end of Bankes's

project about that. When people return to the University and

meet at Syndicates, we shall see how they have made up their

minds upon the subject. There will be great opposition to any

plan of raising thelrequisite sum, and great difficulty in finding

an eligible site for the new college, but perhaps both these
Ifobstacles may be got over.
                                   it be placed at the end of Trum

pington Street, opposite Addenbrooke's (which by the way is also
much beautified), it will extend still farther our line of improved

building. Besides all these plans we have to remove the site of

the Botanic Garden; and as some propose, we make the present
   it a

              a
                              if,
ground into large square with a good market in the centre, we

may turn to very profitable speculation, and may perhaps

finally convert that part of Cambridge into the commercial and

shop-keeping quarter of' the town; and by thus diminishing the

value of the houses near St Mary's, enable ourselves to get some
additional openings in the Academical quarter. You, will think,

my dear Mr Dean, that all this very visionary, and so perhaps
                                   is                          I
                                                            a
                                                                         it
is; but even this moderate compared with plan which heard,
            is
at Syndicate, proposed and approved by some of the gravest
a             it

heads of our Colleges; which was no less than to turn the course

of the Cam so that shall follow the present carriage-road behind

the Colleges; while that road to be relegated still farther off. '
                                   is
                                                               inexpedient or im
                                     I is
                                                           is
After cutting away, however, all that

practicable in our plans, there    much that will certainly take

place. The drainage, about which think you took some interest,

          BISHOP MONK. 1824.                                                  55

has answered completely as far as it has been carried. It would
be much more serviceable if it were not that the Master and

Bursar of St John's steadily resist all attempts to drain Garlick

fair--lane, which, you may perhaps recollect, is a perfect `cave of

the smells.'

   IPerhaps most of what have told you is not news, but it is

too early in the term to have much either of University or College

novelty to communicate. Our admissions on all the sides are. as

Ilarge as the Master allowed them to be, and think our arrivals

are likely to be very numerous. Lord Fordwick, son of Earl

Cowper, comes here on Tuesday as a pupil of mine.     We begin
lectures on Wednesday in the `Seven against Thebes.'                   '

   I do not know that we are likely to have much      change in

Jcollege shortly. Macfarlane does not leave us till the end of this
year. The senior Bursar, udgson,          am sorry to say, in a very
                        is
                                      is

                                 is,I
infirm state of health. It doubtful whether he will be replaced

by Clark or Musgrave; the latter favoured by the Master, and

the former by majority of the Seniors.
   a
Pray present my best respects to Mrs Monk.is      II                          should be

happy to be recalled to the remembrance of Miss Monk, of the

continuance of whose good opinion am very ambitious, but                      if I
                                II
am afraid that not to be expected.   I        understand that Miss

Hughes intends to pay her respects to Miss Monk.      hope there

will be no jealousy between the two lady-cousins, so that the

same Deanery may contain them.    should also be very glad

you would give my remembrances to Dr Bentley, and inform him

that great number of his friends here are very impatient for his
a

appearance among them.  hope, Mr Dean, you can answer for its
                        I
                                          I
                                              I
not being long before he gratifies them. As know that all your

friends here recollect you with great kindness, will venture to

present their remembrances, and am, Dear Mr Dean,

          Always very truly yours W. WHEWELL.

think you requested me to ascertain           your subscription to
I
                          I
                                        I if

                                                                          it
the University had been paid.     cannot learn that                           has been

received either at Mortlock's or Deighton's.  shall be happy to

make any other enquiry which you will suggest on the subject.

56 REV. R. JONES. 1825.

                                                  June 25, 1825.

MY DEAR Jonas,

I IWhen got to London after leaving you, found letters

informing me that Henslow had been appointed Botanical Professor

by the King`, and that consequently the Mineralogical Chair would
Ibe vacant next term-(in October).
                                    came here immediately and
Ibegan to canvass for the office, and so far have met with all
Ipossible encouragement and with no rival.
                                                  conceive therefore
Ithat have not much chance of failing to be elected, except what

may arise from the usurpations of the Heads as to the form of

election. I- have been to several of them to request expressly that

they will not elect me their way, and still hardly know what to

expect. One consequence of this plan is a change of purpose

respecting. my travels. My present intention is to go to Freiberg

and Berlin which seem to be the best Mineralogical schools in
                                                  I have not yet
Germany and especially given to crystallography.
Idetermined when shall migrate, but perhaps in the middle or
Iend of July.
               shall not therefore be able to send you any infor_

mation about the tenure of your Tyrolese or your Grisons property,

Ibut shall be happy to learn for you what is the price per night

of goblin labour in the Harz forest, and what rent is paid to the

king and queen of fairy land, for each square foot of the enchanted

I Iground there. If understandright shall be near Dresden, and
Iif you have therefore any Saxon commands am your man.

                a  *- _             s  as

     Give my best respects to Mrs Jones. Ihope your bees are well.

IIt did not occur to me while was with you that you had got

them to make experimental enquiries upon the prosperity of
communities, and that you were concocting political economical

Ispeculations when' fancied you were merely feeding your eyes

with the lioneycombs Which were hereafter to supply your break

fast table.

                                       Yours ever W. \V.

` See the Report of the Cambridge University Commission, 1852, page 62.

           ARCHDEACON HARE. 1825.                                57

                             T0? or THE BROOKEN, July 25, 1825.

MY DEAR HARE,

It was not part of my plan, as perhaps you know, to bring

my mineralogical materialism into this enchanted ground, but so

I Iit is that here am. And as have been looking for some time

for leisure to write a letter to certify to some one in your most

Idoubting island that am in. the land of the living and upon the
Isurface of the earth, without success, am reduced to the necessity
Iof taking an odd half hour here to inform you that am here, in

Ithe land of witches and spectres, and the fourth half-thousand feet
above the level of the sea.   have just been' witnessing a lordly

sunset and taking a sketch of the witches' altar, which stands on
the shoulder of the hill just above the moss where these ladies

love to have their visitors ; and am going'to bed in a few minutes
Ifor the purpose of rising before the sun. If succeed in getting
Iout of the Harz tomorrow, shall travel, as fast as German posts
Iwill carry me, over Leipzig to'Freiberg; where indeed ought to
Ihave been before this time.
I Ision that have made.       do not however regret the digres

                             had the most beautiful passage from
ILondon to Hamburg that can be imagined. If am to give you
Ia history of 'my journey ought to tell you that by incredible
Iexertions, after leaving Cambridge on Friday,
                                                got into the
Isteam-boat on Saturday morning with a passport which hope
Ithe Prussians will be quite satisfied with, as paid £2 7s. to

I IMr Canning's secretary for his signature thereto. The weather

was so superb that though was four days at sea, ate, drank,
Islept and talked with as much comfort as ever performed those
Iimportant functions on land.
I reached                      left Hamburg the day after

II
                     it,

                      I
                                                           I

                                                                                                                                  a
           and was jolted to Brunswick in a manner which

   did not think the frame either of the human body or of any

piece of coachmaker's work could stand. It was principally

wish to change the charaCter of the motion to which was

subjected, that made me leave the plain for the mountains when

got to Brunswick.  have in consequence been moving about
the Harz for the last four days with great satisfaction. It will

perhaps give me something less of Mr Mohs's company at

58 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1825.

Freiberg, but it is still in a mineralogical point of view a very

proper proceeding. These regions are, or rather Were, very rich

Iin both metals and crystallisations of other kinds, and it is at any

`Irate something to be able to say have seen and sure ought to

Iknow.' At Clausthal introduced myself to a Mr Bauersachs,

who is teacher of mineralogy there, and a very worthy and kind

old man, who shewed me such carbonates of lime as English eyes
I Inever saw.
introduced myself to him, as have sometimes

taken the liberty of doing in similar cases, calling myself Professor;

Iand have, in consequence, had the gratification of hearing my

I Iself called Professor by my postilion ever since. There is an
omen for you! made a mistake as      have done before, in

.despising these mountains of 3000 feet and taking for granted that

Imy portmanteau could perforate them in all directions. The

result has been that have had to-day to describe the whole

northern semicireumference of this knot of mountains from W. to

E., in order to have a chance of dropping into the Leipzig road
Ithe day after to-morrow.
                             left my waggon at the outgoing of

one of the valleys which diverge from this point, and took a guide
                                                   When I
to come here with me and to carry my shaving-box.
Irequested to have such an attendant, looked to have been pro

vided with some horrid black--bearded villager with an utterly
Iunintelligible dialect of Deutsch.
                                     was therefore agreably sur
Iprised to find that was to be accompanied by a young woman

I Iwith the prettiest small features and morning-red cheeks that
  have_seen in these parts. She was, suppose, much like Mimili,
but though something of a coquette, not quite so much as that
meritorious lady. As my German does not yet run very freely it

is lucky that she was very talkative, and with a soft voice and

a. laughing eye, she went on telling me stories about witches and

fairies and herself and her mother and the condition at Hamburgh

to which she was going at Michaela She came all the way bare

headed, with thin shoes and a black apron, so that you may

imagine there is no great difficulty of ascent in this journey.
I Imust not go on talking of Louise till forget one of my principal
Iobjects in writing to you.
                             dare say you have not got any of my

correspondents who are difficult to dispose of; but if there be any

                     REV. H. J. Ross. 1825.                      59

thing which requires immediate or personal consideration, pray
I Iwrite to me at Dresden, Paste Restante.
                                               believe shall-be in
Itime for letters there, but at any rate will take care to have
Ithem forwarded.
                     wished to write to Pierce Morton, and will do
Iso if have'any chance of hitting him before his departure.
I suppose Lodge and Sheepshanks set off the day but one after
I I Idid. Considering the great hurry in which came off do not
Irecollect anything very particular which had forgotten, but
I shall be very thankful for all news of any body at Cambridge.

So good night. Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                                        DBESDEN, Aug. 15, 1825.

    MY DEAR Ross,

Ithat  I have just got your kind letter and am mortified to find
Ime.
       have given you the trouble of making up a packet for
       hoped by writing as soon as possible to spare your time,
Iwhich, take
              I it,has got demands enough upon it.       have in
                                               I
                                                     II
other respects every reason to rejoice that came away just

when did, for found Mohs just preparing to leave Freiberg
    I

for Vienna where he spends his vacation, and at his invitation

II  have resolved to join him at that capital, where shall stay,
    conceive, till near the end of September; so that all com

munications there will be very welcome. Previous to receiving

your letter had met with your friend Hase who accosted me
       I

with enquiries after you on finding that associated Cambridge
                                        is, I
with my name in the Gallery of Antiques. When told him
                                               iIf
that you had been preaching against some of the German divines,I

he was very desirous of knowing what class you had attacked.

told him that did not know their usual distinctive appellations,
II
       I
         I
               I
but that supposed he would understand me            called them

Rationalists; which he appeared to do, and said that you were

a great Supernataralist.  shall convey your message to him
                          I
before leave this place, for B'ottiger       he informs me, absent
                                it
from the city, having gone to some bathing place for his health.

    shall be very glad to have in my power to do anything to

assist your researches, and will make enquiries of any ghostly

60 REV. H. J. ROSE. 1825.

Ior otherwise likely persons. So far as have seen of their

Ipublic service, it appears to consist of nothing but psalm-singing

in the loudest possible voice; and their songs are dare say

like Sir Piercy Shafton's, excellent but somewhat of the longest.
If you wish for any reasonable quantity of this interminable
I Ibawling shall be happy to import it for you.
                                                 am now on
I Ithe point of quitting Protestant Germany, for think shall
Iset forwards for Vienna to-morrow; but shall certainly return

by this place, and if you address any further commissions to me

IPaste Restante here shall take them on my return. Some of

my principal employments at Vienna will be seeing minera

logical collections and sitting at the feet of Professor Mohs while
Ihe discusses them, but
                          hope to find time for other things.
I had begun to consider the advisableness of leaving Berlin till
Ianother time and returning by another route, but think your

letter will determine me to include it in my homeward track.

I Isaw Hermann at Leipsic who enquired after you; and had

the satisfaction of hearing a lecture of his on the art of Criticism.

I Ido not know whether shall be able to give as good an account

of the German schools of Mineralogy, as you have given of their

Theology, but there is much to be said thereupon. They have

got a Natural History system of my science, as they have got a

I INaturalist scheme of yours: and a very dangerous heresy it is
considered to be.  am afraid however that may not bring
Iback my faith as untainted as you have done: for find my

mineralogical supernaturalismus giving way in some respects.
It may perhaps be possible to bring about a union between the

Itwo creeds, which hope will not be such a horrible thing in
Iscience as you hold it to be in faith.
                                         have been here about a

week, but have employed half that time in seeing the Sachsische

Schweiz, which, to be sure, is not Switzerland, but is a very

pretty assemblage of deep rocky dells and bold clifi's hung with
If Iwoods.
you see or communicate with Jones shall be obliged
I Ito you to inform him that am gone to Vienna.
IPrague dilly to-morrow.                         get into the

                          hope it is a different business from

the Hamburg and Brunswick one; for if you were not submitted

Ito the operation of removal in that vehicle, which suppose you

            REV. R. JONES. 1825.                       61

were not, you have no idea of the quantity of jolting and pum

meling that the human frame can bear or that coachmaker's

Iwork can be made the instrument of. In pure weariness turned

Iaside and rambled some days among the Harz mountains. So your
Museum and your sermons are not yet out.  suppose both

will be extant on my return. Remember me to Mrs Rose, and

Iif any other of my friends come in your way tell them that re

member them all the more kindly for being at such a distance

from them.

                     Ever truly yours W. WHEWELL.

                                          Oct. 1825.

MY DEAR Jonas,

I* * * Send me your Political Econ. and will
Imake time for it. Do not imagine that am not aware of my
Iown folly in supposing
                         can understand the matter with such
I Isnatches of attention as give it; but always persuade myself

it will be otherwise by and bye, and then one's vanity is such a
Icomfortable thing.
Iin my head which    have got hundreds of mineralogical maggots
                     found in Germany and which may crawl

into daylight hereafter--but now mind this my injunction. Do

not go and conspire with Peacock or any body else to tell our

Ifriends that am bewildered with German philosophy, as you

once raised an outcry with the accusation of a priori metaphysics.
If you do so you may easily give people an impression, which
Iyou will not be able to remove when have convinced you, as
I certainly shall at the first opportunity, that everything which
I believe is most true, philosophical, and inductive. Another
I Iinjunction also would give you. Do not imagine am doing
Iall for the material sciences with my mineralogy. If
                                                       do not

fail altogether, it will be seen that this is one of the very best

occasions to rectify and apply our general principles of reasoning;

and my science shall, without ceasing to be good and true

mineralogy, be also a most profitable example of that higher

philosophy of yours which legislates for sciences. Remember

also that we have got to do something for that same philosophy

62 REV. R. JONES. 1825.

Ione day.    have got hold of some good ends of speculations
Iwhich think will wind out well. The sad thing is that for
Ithe next month or two shall hardly have half an hour to spin

them in. My tutorship hangs about the neck of my theories
in a wonderful manner--I mean in the way of a millstone and

Inot of a mistress. Nothing is done or known about my pro--
fessorship.  think people seem disposed to try some way of

amicable arrangement with those rascally usurpers, the Heads.

At present we are all agog about another professorship--the

Greek. Rose and Hare are considered the most likely candi

dates. Besides these there are Waddington, Walker, Hastings
IRobinson and Scholefield. To be decided on Saturday`.
                                                        had

rather see Rose Divinity Professor than Greek, but shall be

Icontent in any probable event. The candidates utter Latin
prelections about Prometheus the day after to-morrow.   hope

you liked Normandy and saw plenty of traces of Duke William.

I have much enjoyed my summer. Could not learn much for

you about the Prussian cultivators, for my stay in Prussia was

Ivery brief. They all agree that agriculture is much improved

since the alteration, but could not hear distinctly in what way.

I was told that one result had been scattering the peasantry

more in farm-houses over the country instead of leaving them

Icollected in villages. They are a coarse substantial-looking set
of people, apparently above want.  have got the laws on the

Isubject coming amongst my books. What is the news of my
horse?       shall want him as soon as he can be got here if he
Iis in rerum naturd. Pray let me know this soon.
                                                       found

Peacock busily employed in comparing the numeral words of

the Nanticocks and the Mandingoes, and proving that people

talked decimal notation in central Asia--all for the Encyclopaedia

Metropolitana. For the present good bye. It has played the

Idevil with my employments being detained nine days on the salt

sea between Hamburg and Harwich, and must try to work

my way todaylight. Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

             1 Mr Scholefield was elected.

                       REV. R. JONES. 1825.                   63

                                                  Dec. 1825.

   MY DEAR JONES,

      I intended to have written to you by young Attree, but
Ifinding that he does not go to Brasted immediately think it

Ibetter to adopt the shortest possible line from me to you, which
is in such cases a line of posts.  was somewhat surprised at not

hearing from you, but having made up my mind that you went

upon the principle of writing the smallest possiblenumber of

I I Iletters waited till had time to ask you again.hope some
Iday to have an opportunity of convincing you that   have ten

times as much reason to be angry, and weary, and dissatisfied with
Imyself and my life as you have; and this
Iconsolation to you. It is a right which     trust will be a great

                                              every now and then
                                            that am somewhat
I Iexercise most abundantly, and
                                   confess

jealous of seeing it exercised with equal freedom by persons who

Iseem to have got a claim to it so much inferior as you have. But
of this another time.  guessed that something had prevented the
Iproduction of that imaginary quadruped my horse, and when
Igot your letter had already provided myself with a beast, who
Ihas not got all the beauties and perfections that stipulated for,
                           *                 *
but carries me very well.          *`

I am sorry you have promised not to come and vote for Lord
IPalmerston.
              shall think the worse of the University if he is
Iturned out upon that eternal No-popery cry, which do not think
Iimpossible.
              cannot, however, persuade myself to care very much

I Iabout the matter, and am almost sick of hearing of that or any

subject of politics. Principally, believe, because can find no

general principles at all to my liking, and therefore cannot have

Ithe pleasure of applying them. If could get rid of my tiresome

occupations here and find time for some glimpses into your world
Iof moral speculations,
                           should at least have the pleasure of
I Itheorizing. However, when your book comes will begin.

should, on all accounts, like to see you during the vacation. Are

you likely to be in London between the 1st and 12th of January?
IIf you are not should almost be tempted to come to Brasted for
I Ia day, though shall be much pressed for time.
                                                  am going to

64 sm J. r. w. HERSCHEL. 1826.

Sir John Malcolm's for a day or two, and shall then be in Cam
bridge till the end of the month. We have just elected Richardson
as arbiter in our dispute about the professorships, and have
therefore a chance of having the matter decided in a finite time.
Adieu. Yours ever W. \VHEWELL.

TRINITY COLL. CAMBRIDGE, April 11, 1826.

DEAR HERSCHEL,

    I Ibelieve you know that Airy and intend to try, this

summer, to swing a pendulum somewhere in the bowels of the
Iearth, getting as near as we can to the centre.
                                                  understand from

him that the Royal Society and Board of Longitude are disposed to
give us what assistance they can in the way of allowing us the use

of such instruments as they possess. \Ve are of course desirous to
ascertain as soon as possible to what extent this assistance will

I Igo, and for this purpose shall, believe, come up to London on
I IThursday. shall, hope, be able to find you in the course of the

day, if not sooner, at any rate at the meeting of the Royal Society.

I should be very glad if you would learn, as far as any oppor

tunity comes in your way, what implements we are likely to

Iobtain. The most important for us are two clocks, which under

stand are to be had, belonging to the society; and one, or better

Itwo, invariable detached pendulums which am told are in the

possession of Lieut. Foster and Capt. Hall, and may probably be

disengaged. Also a few good chronometers, and, what is very

essential, a double tent for observing, which it appears may perhaps
be had. If, besides, we could have another tent it would be all

the better for our comfort. Another very desirable thing would

be, if attainable, one or two such artillerymen as you had: and if
this favour were likely to be granted us, we should be glad if

possible to have these persons before our operations begin, to}

superintend the conveyance of our apparatus and the arrangement

of our preparations. Other matters which we should wish to

borrow from the Society, if it possesses and could lend them, are a

measuring chain of approved accuracy, a transit instrument, a
                                                                 I
small theodolitc, some barometers, and various thermometers.

               SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1826.                                          65

mention all these articles, because upon the amount of what the

Royal Society could do in providing us with them would depend

the endeavours which we should make to supply them from other
Iquarters. And the more accurate the information can get on
IThursday and Friday the better.
                                  take the liberty of applying

to you about supposing that you will be willing to do what you
if

  I
                        it,
                                           it
                                                          is
                                                                            is
                                                   I
can to learn what the kernel of the earth                                  made of.  should

also rejoice to know anything about the Cornish mines, because,

though the Ecton in the borders of Derbyshire seems to be the

best adapted for our purpose,    still easy to change our plans

any other seemed likely to be better.

shall be in London about four on Thursday, and shall be

obliged to return the next day.

                               Ever truly yours W. WHEWELL.

                       UNDERGROUND STATION, Doncox'rn MINE,
                                          CAM'BOBNE, CORNWALL, June 13, 1826.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

As have to sit here, about half-way between you and the
I
       I
           I
centre of the earth, for many hours waiting for coincidences,
                                                                                     0
occurs to me that may as well give you some account how our
                                                                                          it
experiments go on, as gave you a reasonable share of trouble in

the course of ouripreparations for them. SO far as extraneous

circumstances go, nothing could be better than the opportunities

we have here.  I  am sitting in a small cavern 1200 feet below

" the grass", as the miners say, as comfortable as possible; peering

ever and anon by means of two telescopes through a boarded

partition into a larger den, where the Royal Society clock and

Foster's pendulum are oscillating with due gravity and without

betraying by any} irregular motions the surprize they must neces
sarily feel to find themselves in such situation. The way to and
a

                                  it is

                                                                        a
from the superior air  laborious, as you may easily imagine

quarter of a mile of vertical ladders through narrow passages

in the rock to be; but does not offer any other difficulty, and

our chronometers being properly packed in a cage of wood, rope,

and leather, travel up and down apparently without much dis

W. H.

66 sm J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1826.

Iturbance, appended to the neck of a miner who attends us.                              do
Inot know if ever explained to you exactly the way in which we
propose to obtain our result. It differs considerably from any way

of dealing with pendulums which has yet been practised, inas

much as it is altogether independent of transits and takes nothing

for granted but the uniform rate of our chronometers for a few
Phours. The process is this. Pendulum
                                                                        is swung below with

clock R. Hence its rate of oscillation with respect to R is de

termined for that time. R is compared with seven chronometers

before and after the observation. Hence we have the rate of

oscillation of the detached pendulum P compared with each of
the chronometers. In the same way, a pendulum Q swung at the

                                                          Q
                                                                         is,
                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                          5',
other station (above) at the same time,                              by means of clock

also compared with the chronometers. Hence we have

                        P _oscillation of

                        oscillation of
                                                          above  __  a
                                                          below

In the same way we have, changing the places of the pen

dulums,                 _oscillation of P above

                        oscillation of below                         '

                        Q,
                                    Q
PAnd hence, since the ratio of the oscillations of                      above and

below    the same as of we have
       is
            is          fi'Poscillationof

                    is  oscillationof P
                                                          above  =
                                                          below

All which easy to work by logarithms. There are of course

corrections to be applied for arc and temperature; the latter
                                                                        is
                                                                                 is
easy and at this lower station pretty steady. The are more
                                                                                        is
difficult to manage. It has generally been assumed that the arcs
decrease in geometrical progression. It not true in fact, and
                                                                 is

altogether false in theory, for-that would make them to have

their decrements as the squares of the arcs. We have hitherto

applied a correction founded on this latter principle, but the

progression does not seem to agree with experiment, and we are,

suppose, to infer that there either at the knife-edge, or in the
I
                I

                                                      is
air, some retarding force besides that which varies as the square

of the velocity.        cannot yet foresee at all what conclusion we are

   SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1826.                       67

likely to arrive at. Our operations are necessarily slow. The

time and labour of going up and down between here and the
surface are such, that it is impossible to communicate with the

observer above when you are once here, and any mistake or de

fect in your equipment here loses the day. The stands of our

instruments have also given us much trouble and vexation. Each

clock and each pendulum refuses to accommodate itself to the

stand of the other, which perverseness it cost us loss of time and

patience to comply with. Our apparatus has been let down

a vertical shaft the whole 1200 feet deep very safely, though if

you were to see the fury with which the iron bucket, dangling at

the end of its quarter of a mile of chain, dashes itself against the
sides of its pit, you would think it rather a hazardous experi--

ment. The thunder of this vessel in its ascent and descent is one

of the sounds which visit my solitude at intervals. Another indi_

Igenous noise is the deep dull gong-like bang of the explosions

where they are blasting, of which hear many in an hour, some of

which come with such a puff as makes me tremble for the tran

quillity of my pendulum. We have once exchanged the place of

our pendulums, but have not carried our calculations so far as to

foresee the result in any measure. We have had no transit

observations for various reasons; one is that we have hardly time.

The underground observations can seldom be made in less than

8 or 10 hours, and often take more, which leaves little of the day

for any thing else. But another cause       that Mr Parkinson
                                       is,

                                            it
packed one clock in such a manner as to put hors ole combat.

The pendulum was broken at both ends, viz. the screw and the

spring: and when we had got this repaired, we found that one of

v the rubies in the pallets was both broken and displaced, so that
 all the efforts of the clock to escape were unavailing. We have

 been obliged to give up all hope of this clock and think our

selves very fortunate that we had a third.

   have written to beg off about the election, so shall not see
I                                           I

you there. Let people look to the consequences of walking any

longer upon an earth of which neither Whig nor Tory knows the,

density. Adieu.

                 Ever yours W. WHEWELL,

                                                5--2

68 srn J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1826.

                          WHITE Honsn, Fn'r'rnn LANE, July 1, 1826.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

    I wrote alittle while ago to you to give you some account of

Ithe way in which we were conducting our experiment in Cornwall.
  am sorry now to tell you that our proceedings came to an abrupt

termination last Monday, by the accident of one of our pendulums

falling vertically through about 1000 feet, on the way from the

upper station to the lower. By some means or other, which we

cannot give more than a conjectural account of, the bucket, in

which the pendulum box was packed with a quantity of small

reeds, took fire, while Foster's pendulum was journeying upwards

I it,in and in consequence both this pendulum and gridiron one
           I
belonging to one of the clocks of the R. S. fell nearly the whole
                       aI
                                    Idepth of the shaft. This happened in the afternoon, and in the

                                                                                        is,course of the evening of the next day various small fragments

                                                 a I it aof our apparatus were brought to us, all hammered and twisted in
                                                        I
the most violent manner.  had seen the packages ascend from
                                                                                                    is
the bottom of the shaft and had exulted in the slow and steady

way in which they ascended, hanging quite free of the sides. The

fire must have broken out about three-quarters of an hour from

that time, and the conjecture of our miners  that was occa

sioned by a candle-snuff thrown into the shaft by some labourer

working near it.

        am sorry that our pendulum has proved the action of subter
raneous gravity in such an unexpected manner, for think we
were going on very well and should have come to satisfactory
conclusion. We had made some alterations in the method of

comparing our clocks, which would think reduce the errors

within the requisite limits, and we have ascertained,                                                 expect

pretty correctly, the ratio of vibration of Hall's pendulum above

to one of Foster's below. We wanted the ratio of their vibrations

at the same place, which we should have had by swinging them

side by side, and observing either their coincidences with one

another (which think would have been very practicable) or their
Itcoincidences with the same clock at the same time.
                                                                                                        now
impossible to obtain this latter ratio. If the knife-edges had not

                             sm G. B. AIRY. 1826.                                 69

been altered we might have had it from their previoushistory,
Ifbut this can now be of no service.
                                       you see Kater you will
Iperhaps ask him if this is not the case, though conceive there

can be no doubt of it.

   I am more and more persuaded that the method is a good one,

                 I                                 and that we could

                              if

                              I it
                                                           it,

                                               I
that the place was admirably adapted to

have obtained our result            had not been for this sudden

manoeuvre which the earth's attraction has played off against us.

But more of this another time.      am in London only for an hour

on my road from Cornwall to Cambridge, where am obliged to

be immediately.              shall return to town soon and hope to see you

then.

                                    Ever truly yours W. WHEWELL.

                                       ans'mn, KENT, Sep.                  1826.
                                                                I
MY DEAR AIRY,                                                          9,

       have put off writing to you till could say something
I                                      I
      I
about the matters referred to in your letter, most of which have
                 if

                         it
gone on but slowly. But to tell you what to be told about
                                          is is
them. Imprimis, your paper about Laplace printed and on its

road to you,                 has not yet reached your hands.             took the

opportunity of Herschel's visiting Paris to send by him. He                       is
                                                   it

gone to geologize and volcanologize and so forth in Auvergne.

requested him to give copies of your memoir to Laplace, Poisson,

and such other persons as might be capacious thereof; thinking

this would answer your_ purpose. He will probably send you

word when he has finished with it. Babbage also at present
                                                                is
at Paris with his wife; but whether you will find him there in
                                                                  it
the beginning of October, which     I  suppose will be about the
                                                                        is
period of your migration,    it     more than can tell you. Your
                                       I                                       it
                                is
other paper has lost some time in consequence of not being very

clever in following my motions, which have of late been subject to

no law of continuity. But two days ago sent up to town the
                                       it                                             _

                                         I
whole corrected with the additions; and as soon as                         ready
will forward to you. If however
I                                        lingersmuch longer

                        it

may be doubtful whether will be worth its while to seek you at

7O SIR e. B. AIRY. 1826.

Orleans. Had you not better send me word when you move to

IParis, and how can send it so as to meet you there 2 Of course

I Ithere are Bureaus Restans and such devices, where it may stay
till you fetch it.  had not read it before but am greatly

                    I
                         II

                                    it,

                                 I
pleased with the mathematics of and grieved that the degrees

and pendulums are so insubordinate.                  am rather amused with

the number of people that you have managed to contradict lately,

for besides Laplace who, hope, has heard of you by this time, and

Young and Kater, to whom  will convey your contradictions

when have an opportunity, find that you have occasion to
II I
      Iresist Ivory, Lambton, and Sabine, with some others in your paper.

   did not very well understand Young's reasoning in the article to

which you refer in the Journal of the Royal Institution, but when

   have an opportunity will compare his result with yours.
                    I
                                       I
   suppose your investigation about the law of reappearances will

be proper to accompany the account of our operations. For an
account, Young says, we ought to write. But do not understand

on what supposition of the law of decrease in the are you are to

calculate it.  have not been thinking much or doing anything
       I
           I
about the revision Of our luckless pendulums. The results are not

comfortable to look at, nor the history to reflect upon. However,

so far as have revised, maintain seconds to be right.                have
                    I                                          S. I

                                                      4.-

                                                      a
begun within these few days to draw up short account of our

proceedings, that there may be one ready when the R. meets.

I  will not at present make any agreement to repeat the experi

ment, but should in fact be very desirous of doing so with fitting
         I

time and circumstances.  do not know whether any pendulum
                         I

                                                 is
has been ordered which may dangle in the place Of the lamented

F. had another project for a different apparatus for which how
   II
Ifever fear the materials will fail. It of this manner.              you

have two noddies with springs of different lengths and strengths

and with different weights they may both be made to Vibrate

seconds or nearly. Let one have a little tail and the other little
                                                               a

disk and observe their coincidences. Then this apparatus, taken

underground far enough, will shew a difference in the coincidences

which may serve to determine the variation of gravity. It would,

as you see, save comparisons, be very portable, and your springs
                                                           if

                      REV. R. JONES. 1826.                                               71

Iwere steady in their elasticity and persevering enough in their nods,
  do not see why it should not be as accurate as the other way.

But touching this nous verrons.              s  a

                                       a an

   I have not been much at Cambridge since Commencement.
IFor some weeks have been living in this beautiful valley which

runs for near a hundred miles through Kent between the Chalk

hills and the Green-sand range. It is now full of hops and hoppers,

which are as good to look at as any thing which you will see in

the way of vintage. To be sure, you are not in a vine country.

   If you see Biot, get what renseignemens you can about his
Iway of observing coincidences. And recommend to your serious

consideration the propriety of writing to me directions to send
Iyour Phil. Trans. to Paris.
                              should be glad if you would write at

any rate. Adieu.

                      Yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                   Oct. 13,1826.

MY DEAR JONES,

ISo you are not come, and suppose it is every day more
Iuncertain whether and when you will.
                                                wanted to see you on
Ivarious accounts, but at present particularly want to consult you
Iabout a matter in which think you will feel some interest. ~ In

short another professorship affair. This is the case. The Lucasian

professorship of mathematics (Barrow's, Newton's and Milner's) is

                                             it

                                                  is

                                                     I
                                                                              it,
                                                                                     is
expected to be shortly vacant, Turton, who holds                                       having
                                                not tenable. It for
taken a college living with which                                                        is a

mathematician far the most desirable we have, though not very

rich in money (perhaps £200 a year). Now doubt whether to

apply for (the Heads are the electors), but one main doubtI I is it
whether Herschel would offer and would succeed. 'Do you know

where he or how a letter can reach him soonest?    am afraid
                                                I

                                                                ;

                                                          I
                                                             II
he will not return home for some weeks yet. The only certain

candidate             hear of French. Peacock's intentions do not
                      is

                             if
know, for have not thought of the matter till this moment.
King will not come forward Peacock or do but will, think,

72 -              REv. R. JONES. 1826.

if we do not. Of course he will also give way to Herschel; and

.I should hope that if he were to offer himself nobody would oppose
Ihim but French.
                  think French would, and being' one of the
IHeads, am afraid his chance would be better than it ought to be.

But at any rate Herschel's name and reputation would make the
Iabsurdity more glaring than in the case of any of us. might
I Iinfluence some.
                  think therefore he has no bad chance.
Ithink too he would like it and would fill it well, and am sure we

should all be glad to have him connected with the University.

If therefore you can devise any way of letting him know imme

diately the state of things and getting his resolve we will lose no

time. The Heads and they alone are the persons to be applied to.

   If I Iwere certain that he would not be a candidate should be
I I Itempted to propose myself, for, as think have told you, should
Ilike the professorship much. At the same time had rather not
I Ideclare myself if were sure that the thing was desperate, and

should thus escape the ridicule of asking for professorships indiscri
I Iminately.
            have not consulted with Peacock because have not

.made up my own mind, and it would be an additional reason
Ifor declining it that might not again stand in his way if he
Iadvances.
            shall write to our Master immediately (who is at

Brighton) asking his advice &c., that trying to ascertain whether
                      is,

                               I
                                      I

                                             I
he will support either Herschel or me cordially. If anything

occurs to you which can be done let me know.  confess that

have a horrible dread that the Heads will favour one of themselves,

and perhaps King might have a better chance than should.

French has 10ng been known to be giving his time to Divinity
and Hebrew. `

I       have no time to talk of other matters. Moreover the strag
gling van of the freshmen already upon me. But even in this
                  is

indecision and difficulty my best remembrances wait upon Mrs

Jones.

                      Ever yours W. WHEWELL.

    It just occurs to me that could make very grand lectures on

the principles of induction in mixed mathematics that have
                  I

                                                        :

                                               I
talked to you about. This would be good but better still would
bc--Herschel for ever.

        SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1826.                  73

                                      Oct. 13, 1826.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

      I Iwish knew where a letter would find you soonest,
Ibecause what have now to say requires expedition. The matter

Iis this: the Lucasian professorship is soon to be vacant, and
   believe the greater part of people in Cambridge would natu

rally think you fitter for it than any body else that can be
Inamed. The electors are the Heads of Colleges.
                                                 do not yet

hear of any candidates except Dr French the Master of Jesus;

whether he would have the grace to retire if you came forwards
I Icannot tell, but think any body else would. We, that is
Ievery body whose sentiments
                              can pretend to understand, would

be delighted to have you fixed in official connexion with the

IUniversity, and have no doubt you would come among us and

lecture till our hair stood on end. But the provoking thing is

that there is not at present any way of getting at your decla

ration Of your being desirous of it. In case this should reach you

Iwhere you can write to the Heads better than wait till your

arrival here to do so, will give you their names which it is not
likely you should recollect. Dr Barnes, Peterhouse, Dr Webb,

Clare Hall, Dr Turner, Pembroke Coll., Dr Davy, Caius Coll,

Dr Thackeray, King's, Dr Godfrey, Queens', Dr Procter,

JCatharine Hall, Dr French, Jesus Coll., Dr Wood, St ohn's,
Hon. G. N. Grenville, Magd., Dr Wordsworth, Trin., Dr Cory,
Emman, Dr Chafy, Sid, Dr Frere, Downing Coll.1 Write to

all these people and ask for their support, and you have done
Iall that is requisite.
                         have not seen any of the people of your
ICollege and indeed know so little of them now that can hardly

tell how to ascertain whether they have thought seriously about

Isuggesting this to you. But hope you do not doubt that it

would be a good thing that the business should be brought

about.

     1 Three Heads are omitted, who were perhaps absent from Cambridge at the
time; namely, Dr Le Blane of Trinity Hall, Dr Lamb of Corpus C. 0011., Dean of
Bristol, and Dr Kaye of Christ's 0011., Bishop of Bristol and afterwards of Lincoln.

74 REV. R. JONES. 1826.

   I Iwrite in great haste and have said, think, all that is

requisite to let you know the state of things: so adieu for the

present.

                             Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

                                                    00:. 18, 1826.

MY DEAR JONES,

           Every word that you say is perfectly true, and what is

I Imore, had made out nearly the whole of it before got your
Iletter. What was not so confident about, that Herschel would
Inot come forward, was confirmed to me by a letter which had
Ifrom him this morning, in answer to one which
I IHerschel, at the same time that wrote to you.    sent, and Lady
                                                     told King, as
Isoon as had made up my mind, that he had nothing to do but make
Ithe most of his hand, which suppose he would proceed to do.
I did not then know that Peacock will certainly stand, which he

to-day told me he should. Nor does King know and
                                                    it,                 quite
                                                            is it

                                                                   is
as well, for his withdrawing in favour of Peacock Will be better

than his not advancing. But besides all this Babbage making

application, and has written to people here on the subject. He

has no chance whatever, and  it       mere extravagance, at least as

                                  is

appears to me, his taking up the thing.             do undoubtedly believe
                                         I

                                                   it

                                                           is
that he would be a good Professor now, but                     too much to

expect that our Heads should understand not only his merits, but

the varying shape of them as time and circumstances may have

modified it. They, good easy men, will never get as far as the

first step in such an investigation.  think Peacock            the most
                                    II                         it is
                                                                    it
                                                 a
desirable man now forthcoming; suppose Airy will not think of

opposing him, for though he would be better professor, would

be ungracious in him to fight Peacock and after all makes no
                                      ;

difference, for French, he be a candidate, will undoubtedly be
                is

                   I I if
elected. So there an end of that matter, and so you see, much

as should wish for you, cannot claim your company merely to
I

listen to my vacillation.  have been for the last two days em

ployed in receiving and establishing my freshmen, which
                                                               a

                                                                    iIs
suppose what people call business, and undoubtedly processis

           REV. H. J. ROSE. 1826.                               75

I I Ifor which cannot flatter myself that am peculiarly fitted.

grieve much to hear of your cold of which Attree also told me--

Iget better as soon as you can; and then you cannot make a better
use of your convalescence than to come here.  think we are not

growing worse. You know that George Waddington and Sheep

shanks are establishing themselves here, and just lately Thirlwall

has resolved to give up the law and take up his abode among us.
IThis is good every way.
                          hope your speculations go on increasing

I Jin length, breadth and depth, as they should do. When you get

anything finished which can look over--that is any part at all--
send it me here. Remember me to Mrs ones.

                          Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                          Tam. COLL. CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 19, 1826.

   MY DEAR Rosa,

      IWhen got your sermon a little while ago and read it over,
I partly intended to write to you for the purpose of remonstrating

with you as to one or two things more hard than was necessary

which you have said of my friends the experimental philosophers.

However my, intention was swept away, with several similar

I Iones, by a current of other business, and do not think ought to

try again to get hold of it merely because you have Written me a
"Iletter which it rejoiced me much to receive. Otherwise
                                                          have

much to say for that same Falstatf," and there are some of your
I Iaccusations which think could convince you of the groundless
Iness of.
           cannot imagine for instance why you should charge

mathematics with being useful and with strengthening the

memory, when you may easily know that all of the science

Iwhich we learn here is perfectly devoid of all practical use; and
   can give you plenty of testimony that it may produce the

effect of very thoroughly spoiling memories naturally good,

besides giving you psychological reasons why it should do so if you

Iwish for them. Nor do think that you quite fairly represent

the nature of our progress in scientific knowledge when you talk

of its consisting in the rejection of present belief in favour of

novelty ; at any rate if the novelty be true one does not see what

76. REV. 11. J. mm. 1826.

Ielse is to be done. But, to tell the truth, am persuaded that

there is not in the nature of science anything unfavourable to

I Ireligious feelings, and if were not so persuaded should be much

puzzled to account for our being invested, as we so amply are,

with the faculties that lead us to the discovery of scientific truth.

It would be strange if our Creator should be found to be urging

Ius on in a Career which tended to a forgetfulness of Him. But of
this perhaps another time.  have undertaken to preach at St

Mary's next February, and may possibly take that opportunity of
Iintroducing some of my own views on this subject. If do, you
Iwill believe me when
                       tell you that they were formed before

your sermon was preached, and without any reference to other
I Ipeople's opinions.
              say this not that am at all afraid of your

taking ill my differing from you--I do not think we are likely to

Iquarrel on such matters--but because would not be suspected of

Imaking the pulpit a place of controversy, or even of the wanton
exhibition of a difference of opinion.  am exceedingly obliged
If Iby your invitation for Christmas.
                                        can, it will give me great
Ipleasure to visit you, but am at present exceedingly uncertain
I Iif shall be in England.
                            have a project, at present undecided

Iupon, of visiting Paris at that time in company with Sedgwick.
  do not wonder that you like our Master so much, for he always

strikes me as most admirable in respect of principles, affections
Iand temper.
              hope his Vice-Chancellorship will prevent his
Ibeing so hard a student as to hurt himself, which suspect he
Isometimes is. If they will make him a bishop think they will
I I Ido a good work, but fear that time will not yet come.
                                        am,

confess, heartily grieved at the chance of seeing French Lucasian

Professor. It will be making the office contemptible, and will

  besides be a clear proof that there is no greater disposition here
' to select people for their fitness to oflices than there has been in

previous times; that we do not feel the responsibility of our
Isituation.
             wish Babbage had any chance. He would be any
Ifadmirable person, and so would Airy who is also a candidate.
Iyour friend Kaye votes for French, which suspect he will, it will

unsettle my notions of his uprightness a good deal. As for the

Mineralogical Professorship the lawyers have it in their hands,

REV. H. J. ROSE. 1826.                                '27

Iand nobody knows anything more; and as am tired of thinking
I Iabout it suppose other people are too.
                                           shall see that all is

right about the money which you have paid; but on looking at
I Iyour letter see that it is paid at Child's, where
                                                      have no

account. Esdaile is my banker, and if you have an opportunity

it will be better to transfer it there--to the account of the Cam
I Ibridge bank, for me.
                         do not see why you should suppose that

am so thoroughly tutorified as to make that a condition of writing
I Ito me, but suppose that in point of fact you did not. hope you
Iare well, which you do not say anything about.
                                                 have nothing

of Germany to tell you.

Yours ever affectionately W. WHEWELL.

   MY DEAR Ross,                          THIN. Conn, Dec. 12, 1826.

       I hope my procrastination  in answering your letter will
Iconvince you that am not very    fiercely disposed to fight you,

I Iwhatever other inference you may draw from it. The fact is that
   wanted to be able to say whether had much chance of seeing

you at Christmas, well knowing that two people may understand

each other and make out whether they agree or differ by a vied

Ivoce communication, which it is not always easy to do by any
finite quantity of epistles.  am sorry to say that there does not

appear to be any great probability of our knocking our bodily

Iheads together for the present, as Sedgwick and set out for

Paris in a week, and probably stay there all the vacation, or as

much of it as can be turned to any purpose of absenteeism. As

Ito your attack on experimental science, dare say that when

you had explained all the angry language that you thought it

fair to use, when you found her poaching beyond her own domains,

Iwe should not be very wide apart. For will agree with you

that she may poach. It is possible to make that study too

Iexclusively predominant, as it is any other. Only one thing
    protest against, and that is the being called upon to shew

what is the best and highest and most fitting of human studies.

IFor my own part altogether dislike the moods comparative

78 REV. H. J. ROSE. 1826.

Iand superlative, and have often thought that men would be                                              _
Imuch improved by being debarred all use of them except in

cases of mensuration. What do hold is that inductive science

Iis a good thing, and, as all truth is consistent with itself, hold

Ithat if inductive science be true it must harmonize with all

the great truths of religion; nor do see how any one can per

suade one's self to believe that all this tempting system of dis

coverable truths is placed within our reach, as it were on purpose, ,
while it is at the same time tainted with the poison of irreligion--

a sort of tree of knowledge and of death, both in one, without the

merciful prohibition attached to it. It appears to me that our

faculties for discovering and enjoying truth, and our faculties

for making champagne and catching turtle and then making

Ibeasts of ourselves by a too intense perception of their beauties,
are altogether different things.  do not know what thinking is

if it be not fixing our minds on what is or appears to be true.

INor do think we can reasonably expect to be able to lay down

maxims as to what kind of truth is most to be pursued ; only this

I think we may presume, that the right way of pursuing any of

the kinds will not make us forgetful of the greatest and most

Icomprehensive of truths. And this think can be shewn; and
I should perhaps venture to say that a person who is unac

quainted with science is blind to many and wonderful views

which, properly considered, it gives him of the relations of ourselves

and the world to the Deity. And it appears to me so far from

reasonable to consider all acquisitions of such knowledge useless

here, because they will be superseded by the full perfection of

Ianother state of existence, that should almost say the reasoning

would be equally good if used to shew the uselessness of culti--

vating our virtues here. At least this appears in the highest

degree probable--that our enjoyment of that kind will be pro

portioned to the degree in which the previous advance of our

intellectual cultivation has prepared us for it. Without some

thing of this kind it would not be enjoyment. And we are

taught to expect exactly an analogous rule with respect to our.

piety. Even here this enlargement and exaltation of our views

or should be, perpetually takingplace. For
is,                                                                                        by no means

                                                                   it

                                                                                       is

                   REV. R. JONES. 1826.                           79

correct to consider advances in science as rejection of what was
known for something new. The novelty, if the philosophy have

been duly inductive, includes old truths and shews them from a

new point of view. Nor does it appear to me that experimental

philosophy is much more an exercise Of the memory alone than

Iis mathematics. As for the contemplative devotion you speak of,
am not at all disposed to depreciate
I

      is
                                                     it,

                                      I

                                                                         is

                                                                                  it
                                      but do not see how

can be made the object of education or communication.

But must conclude. You see that there       no end of this,

and there must be one to my letter immediately. Do you know

that Airy our new Lucasian professor, the best they could have

chosen? Hare says that you may manage the copyright in any

way you choose; he does not see however what Murray can have

to do with it. Smith declares he long ago sent Boeckh to the

Library.

am writing in haste, and dare say not after the clearest
I
     I
                      I

                            I
                                            I
fashion.  am very sorry cannot see you. Can do anything

for you in Paris?

                   Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                                      TRIN. COLL, Dec. 10, 1826.

MY DEAR JONES,

          If do not write and tell you, how will you ever know
I
    I
that have engaged to preach the course of sermons you wot of

in February, taking the afternoon turns at St Mary's?    have
                                            it I

                                                 is

                                                      I
not yet written the greater portion of what am to say and

have finished none of in the form in which  to be said, so
                   I it
that am somewhat behind. And what stands still more in the
II
way, am just going to set off with Sedgwick on a long-projected

expedition to Paris. If when get there find that cannot
                         I            I
                                              I

                                                 I
work at this matter, must come back again, for shall other!
wise get somewhat frightened with my undertaking. With time

enough    should not fear the greater part of the work--all the
II
argument about the activity and omnipresence Of the Deity--but

when come to the indications of benevolent design in the moral

frame of society, have not such an habitual familiarity with the
          I

80 REV. R. JONES. 1826.

view of the subject in its details as to write with the confidence
Iand vehemence which would be becoming.
                                                 have no doubt
I Ishould get on better if had you at my elbow. It might have
Ibeen better to put off the matter a little longer, but had no

choice if it was to be this year, and my idea might have faded
I Ibefore another.
                believe you will think me rash, and almost
I Ithink myself so, but some parts
                                     am persuaded can make

striking`.

Do you know that we have settled the Lucasian Professorship

by giving it to Airy? Babbage came here to canvass, and is now
here. ' He has effected a complete conquest of your Master's

Igood graces and is staying at Cains Lodge. Herschel has also

been here to support him, but all in vain. In fact think they
have done well in electing Airy who will reside and give lectures--

practical and painstaking ones--who is par e'minence a mathe
matician, and whose reputation will all go to the account of the

University. French withdrew, finding the office untenable with

Ihis present one--a sign of grace, partly, believe, brought about

by our Master.
I IHow are you and your lucubrations?
                                                 hope well.                 shall
Ibe glad to hear of any advances they have made.
I Ishall not see you this vacation.               am afraid

Idine with Herschel on Tuesday.      go to town next week and

                                 shall get to Paris as soon as
I Ican, and if leave that place shall come here immediately.

We are just at the end of this term, which like all other terms

went on very well after one got fairly into it.
ICan find or do anything for you at Paris, or can you suggest
Iany person or thing more advisable to see than another?
                                                                            have
Inot yet determined what hotel to go to, but of course shall
Ibe found Paste Restante. In London am at the Old Hummums.

Remember me to Mrs Jones. Be well and strong and wise

and industrious as ever.

                          Yours always W. WHEWELL.

1 For an account of this course of sermons see the first volume, page 323.

                  REV. R. JONES. 1826.          81

MY DEAR JONES,           Tam. Conn. Dec. 1826.

I am sorry my letter gave you even a moment's uneasi
I Iness--I think unfounded--but
                         see that       ought to have
I Iexplained myself more.
                         never intended to publish, and do
Inot think that shall preach, any thing which will even brush

the most delicate bloom of novelty off your plums. The only

Ipart of my plan where shall take moral considerations at all

will be my last sermon, the other three being mainly or alto

gether on physical sciences. And then, though in my sketch

I have talked of taking more than one example of the false
Iphilosophy of the irreligious school, shall not in fact have by

any possibility room for more than a very short attack on the

Iprinciple of population. And what have to say about that is

in sum this--that the false induction consists in generalizing

the impulse to increase, and not generalizing, to a coordinate

extent and with corresponding views of their bearing, the mode

rating and controlling influences which the nature of society
I Iand of man contain.
                         am aware quite that see all this far
Imore clearly than should otherwise have done, in consequence
Iof our discussions on such matters, but do not think that such

a general view will at all stand in the way of having due credit

given to any exposition of the argument in a more detailed

and didactic manner. You will see, if you recollect at all the

Itime in which that part was written which read to you, that

with me detail and even very formal reasoning is out of the
Iquestion.
            must keep people a long way off my arguments and

let them see them at the edge of the horizon by their reflexion
Iin the skies. The principal advantage
                                        shall derive from

knowing your views--and indeed it is one of the greatest pos

IIsible--will be that shall talk confidently of that which do

not prove, and assert roundly that a great deal more may be

proved and will be so when any body comes with the right kind
Iof wisdom to the task.
                         may in this way declare that rank and

inequality of ranks and progress of agriculture and such matters

Iare good`things; but if do, it will hardly occupy more than a

single sentence.

w. II.                                  6

82 REV. R. JONES. I827.

IDo you dislike this? If you do, can manage to alter my
Iplan andeill readily do so, for know that at any rate my sermon
I Iwill smell of Brasted, and do not want you to think that am
Igoing wantonly to spill the odorous spirit.
                                              can either make

my three sermons into four and leave out the moral part of the

Isubject for another time, when can set my back against your
Ibook and fight out the battle; 'or can take something which

does not exactly come in your way, as the selfish system of morals,
I Ior something of that kind.
                             think could contrive to make

that example answer my purpose, though my present leaning

Iis towards population.  However we can talk of this when
   see you.
I Icannot anyhow get ofi' till next year, and think we shall
Ieasily devise so that there will be no necessity for it.
                                                           suppose
I Imisled `you about the day of dining with Herschel, but am
Iglad to think shall see you next week.

Airy is going on very straightforward with his professorship,

as he does with everything.  He has already given notice of

experimental lectures next term. Adieu.

                             Yours always W. WHEWELL.

JMY DEAR. ones,                       Tam. COLL. Feb. 26, 1827.

I have just preached my last sermon, and have delayed
I Iwriting to you till could say so.
                                      should have sent you some
Iindication of my being on English ground long ago, but found

that talking about my sermons disturbed the serenity of my

Ithoughts as to the subject of them, so gave up the attempt.

I have got through them without getting quite up to the moral

Ipart of my subject, so that I' had no opportunity of giving any of

the views which we have talked about, if had been tempted. No

population, and in short nothing but one or two analogies from the

natural world to illustrate the probability of our being very fairly
ignorant of the more general laws of the moral world. The rest

was an attempt to make science fall in with a contemplative

Idevotion, which don't think was difficult, though people seem,

                REV. R. JONEs. 1827.                          83

from the notion they had of scientific men, to have thought it
I Imust be impossible.
                   believe have succeeded pretty well on
Ithe whole, but have not time to ascertain what people think in

general.                 a'  s

                a                     as

   I Iforgot to say that doubt much about publishing.  I wrote
I Iat last in haste, and believe had better wait.

                             Yours ever W. WHEWELL.

You will see that my plan altered its shape much in arriving
Itowards its execution.
                         still look forward to the rest, but it

grows big to look at. Are your laws extending under your hands

still ?

                             Timur! COLLEGE, June 1, 1827.

MY DEAR JONES,

       I* * * When told you of Herschel's intention
Iof going to Madeira might as well have added what was told me

at the same time, that he had some half intention of going farther,

Iprobably to Tenerifi'e, to add to his stock of volcanic observations.
   was told too that he did not wish these plans to be talked of, as
Ihis lady mother will most likely set her face against them.
                                                              am

quite willing that you should like Lunn. We had him here .for a
I Ifew days, and found him a very pleasant companion.
                                                       should
Ilike to see you during the present month, but fear it is not easy.
I Ihave got another task of sermon-writing on my hands.
                                                             have

engaged at our Master's request to preach the Commencement

ISermon on the 1st of July, and must set about it very soon. It

I Iwould satisfy me to let you see it before it is preached, but
    hardly see how that can be, as have promised to go into

Lancashire this summer, and intended, if it were possible, to put

this in execution before the Commencement. This will make it

Inecessary for me to set out in about a week, and if can get on
Iwith my composition so as to be secure on that head, shall take
Ithat plan; if not, must go to Lancaster in July, which will much
Iabbreviate my foreign travels. Indeed sometimes doubt whether
I might not better stay at home and read than go abroad and

                                                       6--2

84 REv. R. JONES. 1827.

Iramble ; for have a very grievous weight of ignorance which
I Ishould like to diminish, and do little to that effect in the term.
I IMoreover, have some speculations which should like to try to
Ievolve. And it would be but decent that should make myself
Isomewhat acquainted with mineralogy, if really am to be pro

Ifessor. The decision approaches respecting the mode Of election,

though still slowly. To confess to you a secret, which hardly

Iconfess to myself, much doubt whether this same professorship
Iis a business shall make any thing of. It will take a long time

to turn me into a good mineralogist and lead me into paths out of
Ithe way of my favourite pursuits. At any rate, as have put my
Ihand to the hammer ought to be practising with it a little. So
I Iyou see, am at present all afloat.
                                       shall_perhaps come after

Commencement and try to persuade you to go to .the Netherlands,
Iwhich will be a better reason for going there than any have at

present.                               '

                               Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

JMY DEAR  ONEs,              TRIN. COLL. CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 11, 1827.

    '*           *  I shall probably soon have to decide on

my professorship. Send me hint of the way in which it appears
Ito you, to help my decision.
                               will tell you the case. It seems

to be conjectured that Richardson's judgment will be adverse to

Ius. can hardly think he will determine for nomination by the

Heads, for there is no single precedent and but weak analogies. He
Imay very easily and think will determine against open election.
IBut if he do declare the election to be by nomination, am doubt
I Iful whether shall not throw the matter up.
                                               do not intend to

devote my life to mineralogy, and should probably not keep the
Iprofessorship many years (except &c.). At the same time
                                                          do

Iintend to make myself master of the subject at any rate, and
   have got reforms, as appears to me important and irresistible,

to introduce into it. These the situation of Prof. would enable me
'Ito promulgate more influentially and better every way.
                                                          should
Ialso (why should not tell you so ?) somewhat like the kind of

SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1827.                                                                                                    85

rank which it gives here, but this is a thing which has two sides,
Iand has at any rate not much weight either way.
                                                       have a wish

to pursue several other studies and objects by and bye, but these
plans are yet too indistinct and round-about to affect me much for

Ia year or two. On the other hand have got work enough if not
Itoo much already, and might, by being ignorant of what had

taken upon myself to know, get discredit, at least at first. And
Iagain a consideration which weighs with me more than suppose
Iit will with you.
                    think the election by nomination so manifest

a usurpation of the Heads, so unjust, and also so prejudicial to the

IUniversity, that should be very glad to back up my testimony

against it by refusing the professorship in which it is first
Iattempted to be exercised.
                             may just hint to you also that
I cannot makeup my mind to Divinity. All such plans must be
Igiven up. Now with these materials; when the time comes, shall

manage somehow to decide; but if you will give me your view,

which will be quite dispassionate and clear, it will be of great
Iservice to me.
                 look with great pleasure on my mineralogical
Ispeculations, whether am to be amateur or professor, and am

Isanguine about their success. This is better and wiser than de
sponding about one's fortune as you sometimes do.      suppose, like

the people in the epigram, we shall both be mistaken.
                    I- .
I                                                      W_ W.
      0I
                  I                Tam. Conn. Nov. 23, 1827.

                                 isDEAR HERSCHEL,
                                                 in

                                   '1'I I
                                                                                                                           ~I-

                                                                         it

                                                  I is
                                                                                    is it
                                                                                                             is
am much obliged by your letter and glad to find that

in my reformation of chemical notation have stumbled upon the

same views which you had adopted.  ought to have recollected

your formulae, for recognize them now that you mention`them.

A part of my system was to introduce, where            useful, the

oxygen as an algebraical quantity; but in mineralogy                                                                            just

as you say, that for brevity's sake the use of dots    better.

have got some other reforms        mineralogy which am quite

confident about as to their desirableness, and only grieve at the

small chance there of my ever making those original discoveries

86 MR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1827.

and advances in the science which give a man the right and
Ipower to regulate its external clothing.
                                           shall stick to minera
Ilogy (at least so far as stick to any matter of speculation) for

the present. As to our Professorships here, Turton had not one

when he took that of Divinity, and if Woodhouse's were anyhow

Ivacated, Airy would be a candidate, and most fervently hope

a successful one. So far as income is concerned, the Lucasian

is rather a starving matter, for they compelled him in taking it to

give up all his College employments and all emoluments except
Ihis fellowship. Peacock would not take the Plumian, believe,
Iand, independently of all other considerations, could not have the
Iface to set up for an observer.
                                  do not know what would come
Iof the Lucasian in the case have supposed, for, to tell the truth,
I have very little thought of the matter. One good thing that
                                       it I
                                                  a

                                                 if

                                                       it
                                                           it

                                                                                 is,

                                                                           it
Airy would as Plumian Professor continue to give the lectures

which he gives in his present capacity.    am very glad of what

you say respecting Jones.  IIwrote to him week ago and have
just heard from him.. If the University do notprint his book

shall be no fault of mine.     am fully convinced       will be on

every account a thing they will afterwards desire to have done;

and should not much fear bringing about,           were not that
I

the 0manUS phrase of "Political Economy " may frighten them

beyond all control.  I   am quite satisfied both of the truth of

Jones's general views, and also that they possess the great pro

perty of true doctrines, that they are capable of being proved

at any step of their induction between the most general and the

most particular. You will laugh at this criterion, but  it  capa

                                                             is

                                                                it

                                                                       is,
ble of being exemplified nevertheless. And one beauty of

that brings in moral considerations exactly in their right place.
I

        it

        S. I
               I

                         I
                                 I
am sorry you have not heard any thing respecting nty recom

mendation of Ritchie to the Virginia University, because seemed
                                                        it

to me possible that the arrangement might be advantageous to

both parties.        mentioned him again two days ago to Mr

Lawrence, an American gentleman, who was here on the same

errand,  do not at all like what hear of the projects respecting

the R.   What possible good of any kind can result from placing

Peel at the head of it?     am by no means disposed to take the

REV. H. J. ROSE. 1827.                                                            87

Imatter so quietly as you seem to be, and do not know any thing

more likely to be fatal than the counsel which recommends those

Iwho are conscious of meaning rightv to be silent and inactive,
while others are forward and busy.  doubt whether the chance

of having one's motives misinterpreted is enough to justify this

Iquietism, and am by no means certain, in my own case, that my

insignificance as to such things and my ignorance of the details of

the case will prevent my coming up at the election to vote, with

the hope of being then able to see whether one way of acting is
Inot more right than another.
                               think the day is the 30th. Do
Inot fancy that shall come resolved to do something because it is

an opportunity which does not often occur. But it does appear to

me that with all their evils such societies as the R. S. must have

much influence, may have much influence for good, and are most

likely to have this, if those who are really intelligent and disin

terested will do what they think best, and leave others to make out

that it is so when the clamour of times and parties has subsided.

   I Ifam very glad to hear the account you give of Babbage.
Iany epistolizable matter occurs to me will make a shot at him.

   I Iwill be of what use can to Griesbach even though (what an

even 1) he is not my pupil.
                                                  Ever truly yours W. WHEWELL.

                                    Tmum Conn. Dec. 9, 1827.

   MY DEAR ROSE,

       I Ican hardly believe it to be so long as fear an exact
Ichronology would prove it since received your last kind letter,

for undoubtedly my determination to answer it forthwith was so

Istrong that can hardly imagine it has not been executed. But

I Ihave to attribute to the life lead here not only this delay, but

Ithe wrong estimate had formed of the length of it. For one

consequence of having one's time occupied with a perpetual

it                                                                                that all

                                                                             is,
succession of small and similar matters of business

portions of appear of undistinguishable duration: like travelling

in a perfectly level plain on a perfectly straight road, where

;you are unable to judge of distances, and find the short eight

88 RM. H. J. ROSE. 1827.

miles which you have before you at the beginning of your stage,

I
        I

                                           is is

                                            it

                                                           is

                                       I

                                                              it

                                                                                is

                                                         I it,
and the long two miles when you are near the end of present

much the same appearance. However the reason of the thing

may be, fear the fact undeniable that                 near a month since

heard from you, and that                              still uncertain whether shall

produce a letter which post-worthy.                   did not however neglect

your request with respect to the MS. in the Library, though in

truth my assistance was in no way necessary. Your brother may

in his simple capacity of M.A. copy the notes you mention or any

             if

                it

                            I

                                                   it

                                                                                          is,

                                                    I
                                                                                                         is
others; and        be thought right, as perhaps       to ask some

permission to publish them, imagine that Lodge's, which he

quite willing to give, will be amply sufficient. This believe

your brother already knows, and has probably told you. Getting

the MS. out of the Library might perhaps be more difficult, though

             could not be dispensed with.
Ipossible,
    I if

             it

              II
                     II

                                                  is
       do not think can tell you anything very distinct with

respect to the counsels which you are to have in common with

Hare.      told him of your desiring and wondering by means of his

not writing, and his account of the matter seemed to be that

he had got nothing to say, that nothing to tell you which you did

not know on the matters in question. He may possibly have

written to you since, for have not heard him say anything

recently thereon.   am sure wish you the best success in your

undertaking, and this at any rate can do you no harm, though                        it I it

will neither much enlighten nor fortify you.

       am in state of the grossest ignorance with respect to all
I            Ia

literary and scientific matters, and must therefore perforce hold

my tongue on such subjects.      have got such an infinitude of that
                               II I
                                             a
                                              it

                                                 it iIf
                                                                             is
trifling which men call business upon my hands, that writing and

reading are out of the question; little arithmetic all that

can occasionally indulge in.     did however read Bretschneider's

book against you, and would have sent you             had thought

likely to fail of reaching you.  did not think very formidable

   for you, but think one may feel some indulgence for those
' persons who never having looked on Christianity in the light in

which we look upon  it,

                                                 I
                    do not feel, and cannot comprehend, the

horror with which their views are received. When begin to

                 REv. R. JONES. 1828.               4

                                                                89

Ilearn my alphabet again, and to resume the practice of reading,

shall lose no time in looking at the articles which you mention.

I have some hope that this return to ancient habits may take
Iplace after the 16th, but at any rate during the vacation expect
Isome such remarkable event.
                              should indeed be much rejoiced
if any thing in the way you mention were to bring you to Cam

bridge as an annual or perennial. And though we can here too

Isometimes be ignorant and dogmatieal, shall be quite content

that you shall have the fear of such attributes before your eyes, if

you will think this apprehension makes it necessary to seek our

pure streams as the only place to wash Off such stains. When

you come here we can easily consider further whether and where
I Isuch things are.
                 got your letter written for Bonomi which, if
Irecollect right, he sent in a parcel from London.
                                                    did not know
Ihe had been here, and am sorry saw him not. Though nothing

but an author's vanity could revive the subject at this distance of
I Itime, must thank you for what you say of my sermons.
                                                         seem
Ito myself to have got a perception of one or two truths, which, if
Ican make other people also perceive, am sure it will do them good.
Illfais cela sera pour une autre fois. At present can neither read,
Imark, &e.v Among other dainty devices am moderator, which

will keep me here much of the holidays. Adieu for the present.

Give my regards to Mrs Rose, and believe me

                 Afi'ectionately yours W. WHEWELL.

JMY DEAR ONEs,                    TmN. COLL. Jan. 6, 1828.

                 *~I- 'I-     I-

         IDuring the last term have been almost too busy either to
Iwrite or read.
                 took upon myself a number of employments
Iwhich ate up almost every moment of the day. This might have

foreseen and did; but, nevertheless, the inability to follow at all

any studies of my own, and to read anything except for my daily

Ineeds, made me feel as it always does intolerably ignorant and
stupid.  am now just going to enter upon the Senate-house

examination as moderator, which is one of my functions, and to

90 SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1828.

carry into effect some reforms that we have been devising. My

professorship of mineralogy is still in uncertainty. We have got

a decision which is smack against us as to the mode of election,

and which also declares the professorship to be terminated by a

' vacancy except it be re-established, and it is not certain that the

Heads will consent to revive it 1. We have another professorship

vacant by Woodhouse's death. Airy will probably succeed him,

and the vacant one will be the Lucasian for which Babbage was a

candidate. Some people here hope that Herschel will take
                                                                                           I
                                                                                                  it,
which much doubt.  should rejoice to have Babbage, but am
I                s

                  I

                             s
                                              s

                                                                                   is
not so sure that he (one of the 7ro7t7toi') would succeed, and not
at all certain that he would now offer himself. He at 'Naples
                                                                                       is

and therefore long to get at.

                                     Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

                                     Tam. Conn. March 1828.
                                                                                           6,
DEAR HERSCHEL,
                                                                                                 I
        hope you will be as glad to hear as am to tell you that
aItBabbage was to--day elected our Lucasian professor.II
                                        I                                                  was en
      1
tirely in consequence of your letter, which got yesterday, that
     II I
bestirred myself in the matter, for before that did not consider

myself sufficiently authorized to press his claims upon the electors.

Peacock, Higman, and wrote letter to each of them which was
sent last night about eleven, and to-day at the election took
           it a                      a
               2 I,                            2
place. Nothing could be more distinguished than the mode of
                                  a
giving him the chair, for though at such period one might have

naturally supposed large proportion of the votes to be engaged,

out of 11 electors only voted for one other candidate, and for
                                                                                           1
third.     hope Babbage will take the matter in the same spirit
                                                                                             of I
in which am sure was received here: for am quite clear that
                                     I

the Heads elected him in a very cordial veneration for his talents

and confidence in his goodwill to the office and its duties.

        See Vol. 1. page 32; also Dean Peacock's Observations on the Statutes
the University of Cambridge, page 1`34, and the Report of the Cambriidge Uni
versity Commission, 1852, page 67.

                         REV. R. JONES. 1828.                            91

suppose you or some of his friends will write to him immediately

and inform him of what has been done. It was at first suggested

that a difficulty would arise in consequence of the impossibility of

his being admitted immediately, but it appears that the words of

the deed require him to be admitted "proximo opportuno tempore,"

I Iwhich allow any reasonable latitude of interpretation. In what
   had to say to the electors about the matter referred them to

their own interviews with him on the former occasion for informa

tion as to his intentions with regard to the manner of discharging

his Lucasian functions.

   I rejoice very much at the event of this business, for it is very

honourable to him, and, as appears to me, to the electors. Nothing

but the wish to obtain the best professor for the University and

to do justice to Babbage can be supposed to have influenced them;

and having been obliged to act in some haste, and to take a re

Isponsibility which might have been disagreeable, if matters had
turned out otherwise,    am very glad to find that, judging

favourably of our Heads, and not despairing of the result, we have

Ibeen led to that which will hope he a source of satisfaction both

to our new professor and to us.

                                 Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

JMY DEAR ours,                                TRIN. Conn. May 21, 1828.

                         'I'           I      as
                                           a
                           I`
                                    s
Among other ties want to get my mineralogical sketch

printed, and             will hardly be finished much before that time.
I
avoid all your anxieties about authorship by playing for lower
      it, I
stakes of labour and reputation. While you work for years in theIa

elaboration of slowly growing ideas, take the first buds of thoughtit

and make nosegay of them without trying what patience and

labour might do in ripening and perfecting them. To tell the

truth say this with no conviction of the wisdom of my proceeding;

but so the matter        is,

                              I
                         and shall circulate my system as now
                                                  I
                                                      I I,
have and let all that choose to read decide as they like, while

so long as work at minerals, shall try to develope its details.

92 REV. R. JONES. 1828.

believe this to be very indifi'erent economy of reputation and

I Ithought, but do not see at present how can do better.

                                a s at 4*
                                                 Ever yours, W. WHEWELL.

DEAR JONES,                                    TRIN. Conn. May 30, 1828.

             as  a                    s as

My mineralogical apergus are printed, and it is to my
Ieyes a very amiable-looking book.
                                          have put some little specu
Ilation into it of the kind you desiderated, but could not con

sistently do much that way, as my ostensible purpose was to

Icompare what had been already done, so as to make the first step
towards a catholic system of mineralogy.  must know much more
Iabout the matter before can pretend to go alone.

   I do not see anything to discourage any one in his hopes of

reasonable fame from any science, and most especially yours.

Take care to be first right in your principles, then bold and

persevering in your assertion of them, and you cannot fail.
IBy way of exemplifying my doctrine on a small scale am
Igoing to send my pamphlet to all the mineralogists
ILondon, Edinburgh and elsewhere.                            know in

                                          feel, however, far more
Icuriosity to know what will come of the method when have time

to follow it farther, than to know what is thought of my present

guesses, which is fortunate.          is  it
                                s 1+

                                      Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

                                               TRINITY COLL. CAMBRIDGE, Sept. 9, 1828.

MY DEAR JONES,

    IHow do you do this fine September? am just returned

hither--viz. to-day--from the uttermost ends of the kingdom,
Iand feel a desire to put myself in communication, as military
Imen say, with its more central parts.
                                          cannot pretend to give

any very satisfactory account of my sojourn in Cornwall, which is

                  REV. R. JONES. 1828.       _ 93

Ijust ended. To tell the truth, consider that we have failed in

our object nearly or altogether. Mainly in consequence of a

rascally piece of steel deviating "flimsth of an inch from a straight
line, by the fault of Thomas Jones, of Charing Cross, who is as

great a reprobate as his illustrious namesake was, and whose
Isins are written in brass to our confusion and his.
                                                      conceive

that this defect of our oscillating apparatus will prevent our
drawing any sound conclusions at all from all the labour which

has been bestowed upon them, but Airy, who opposes a face of

adamant to a fist of iron, thinks he can still make something of

Itheir vagaries. And must needs say that our labour has not

been small nor our perseverance easily exhausted: but what

I Imost regret, is the entire loss of the summer, in which, if had
Iused it better,
                  might have melted and measured the whole

Imineral kingdom. However this has not been without its_com

pensations, and have been hammering the coasts of Cornwall
very vigorously at intervals. But you--what have you been

doing?--Have you been living upon the stock of health and

leanness acquired during our journey in Wales? Have you been

cultivating Rent, Profits and Wages, and getting them ready for

undying types? You must have been doing this, for all things
Icall upon you.
                  have been reading a pamphlet, which you very
Ilikely know, as read the third edition, concerning the "True
IfTheory of Rent," by a certain Mr Thompson of Queens'.
                                                         you

        is
                    it,

                              it
have not read read forthwith on various accounts. Now one

                                        is,
inference to be made from this same pamphlet how ripe the

world   for your speculations, and how they will become less

striking and original by all delay. Here you have the fallacy of

rent being the excess of richer soils, the case (no doubt most
imperfectly) indicated of rent in countries where this does not

apply, the bearing of taxes in the various cases, the influence of

moral causes and national habits. All these topics, no doubt,

very slightly touched and with no consciousness of their extent

and general principles, but still shewing how the opinions of

clear-headed and inquiring men tend. On this account especially

       that you, who are in possession of the general views whichit
connect and systematize these ape'rgus, and 0f the collections of
    is

94 REV. R. JONEs. 1828.

instances which illustrate them, should linger no longer. In the

Isame way, so far as can understand concerning Mr Sadler from

the Quarterly Review, he has got hold, probably combined with

much folly, of some of the true circumstances of the progress

of population, and of the preventive checks. All these ferment

ing principles must converge to system and unity before long;
the political economists are not all the war;--if they will not
understand common sense because their heads are full of extrava

gant theory, they will be trampled down and passed over; and
it will be the height of indolence and bad management if you

allow other heels to take the pas of yours in this most meritorious

Iprocession. You will think that finding myself unable to make
any positive assertions about my physics, which         made my
Ibusiness this summer, am remunerating myself by very resolute
Ioperations with regard to matters that know still less about.
I IBut as far as have spoken
                                 am quite clear. Nobody can

doubt, for instance, that as to the matter of Rent Mr Perronnet

Thompson is right, and Messrs the Westminster Reviewers

wrong. And it may be noticed that his method of fishing out

Ithe very phrase and word in which a fallacy resides is what
Ihave often mentioned to you as a useful exercise,
                                                        suppose

many people are not assisted byI                     but am sure there are
                                       (a it,I
many others that are.                      IIsay nothing in defence of the mathe

                                                     I
matics with which Mr Thompson has filthified his subject, and

not much for his very bold colloquialisms, but think that

recognize in him several views which learnt from you`.
I
  II

                       a
        shall probably come to London the first week in October.

If do, perhaps you can come at the same time, or else come

here like reasonable Caius man                       rare animal now), and let

us talk our way to the bottom of these matters. At any rate,

let me hear from you in what state of preparation you are.

Give my kind remembrances to Mrs Jones.              hope she has long
ceased to be an invalid.
                                                                      `

                          Adieu, yours, W. WHEWELL.

                          See Vol. p. 309.
                          1
                                                 1.

SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1828.                            95

                                                         Tam. Conn. CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 14, 1828.

   DEAR HERsanL,

       I received this morning a letter from Lardner, in which

he talks of a certain Cyclopaedia which he is engaged to
superintend, and to which you have promised your aid. He tells
me that you have spoken of undertaking something with respect

Ito acoustics and crystals in conjunction with me. And should

be glad to know Whether any project of this kind was a serious
speculation of yours, and what sort of work you think might

Iand would be produced by any such collaboration. He says you

have engaged to furnish an article on light, and suppose there

fore that you approve of the plan and artists of the book in

general.

   IAs to sound, know nothing about the matter, and intend

to put "off my education till your treatise in the Encyclopwdia
Metropolitana comes out. You will judge, therefore, how likely

I am to assist you on that subject. With regard to crystallography,
I should on many accounts be much delighted to be engaged in

any joint speculations with you on any such topics. But my

views as to the best and simplest ways of treating such matters

Iare hardly yet fixed, and even if we agreed about the principles

to be followed, think it would take us some trouble to select

among the systems published or to work out the details of a

system worthy to supersede them. Do you think- this a thing to

be attempted?

             iii
                                  *9

                                            ¥

                                            if *
             Tmn. COLL. CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 18, 1828.

DEAR JONES,

Don't you recollect promising that ever a proposition

was made to admit Bachelors to the Public Library you would come

to Cambridge and vote for it? Such a proposition comes before

the Senate on Wednesday, the 26th. The Bachelors are, accord

ing to the law which we propose, to have the privilege of taking

out five books. A few restrictions are added to make the matter

more palatable to some, but none which will render  it  at all

96 REV. R. JONES. 1828.

inconvenient to the youths. So come and exercise your functions

as a wise and beneficent legislator without fail.

   I am puzzled what to think, that you will not send me your

MS. or bring it. Have you resolved not to look to the University
I Ito help you? If you are still doubting and delaying from doubt,
   can add nothing to what have already said. You perhaps
Iimagine my hopes to be smaller than they are.
                                                have good
Ihopes; but will not talk to you of them. What is the use of

speculating about the future except so far as we can influence

it? To act is our business now. We are men, and shall not

lose our good humour and our resources whatever the event may

 be. Otherwise, what is the good of our philosophy and self

.dependence? It will not do at the same time to despise men,

and to depend upon their opinion for the comfort of our lives.
IFor my own part,
                   have long been teaching myself to do
Ineither--not unsuccessfully
                              hope. But at any rate let us not

delay, when delay is at the same time a discomfort and a dis

advantage. No doubt it is impossible not to be anxious and

curious about the future. It is no small matter, but what of

that? It is exactly the reason for doing now quietly and care--

Ifully what is manifestly to be done.

      should not wonder if my wise apophthegms make you laugh;
but when is a man to utter moral sentences if not in the case

of his friend's doubts and difficulties? So in case they happen

not to apply, reserve them and return them to me on some

similar occasion.

    If you will come here now, you shall hear both Sedgwick

lecture and Smyth speculate on the French Revolution. These
I Iare things you ought to do. Moreover,
                              daresay shall find a

number of my own troubles and humours, for which, if you like

the office, you may be the depositary to my no small advantage.

    At any rate, say or do something.

                   Adieu, yours'ever, W. WHEWELL.

     [The proposition respecting the University Library was not
carried on this occasion, for a member of the Caput interposed

his veto]

                SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1829.                                                             97

                                                                              TRIN. Conn, Feb. 4, 1829.

   MY DEAR JONES,
                              s a s as

I Babbage has been here in his capacity Of professor, and
   have really enjoyed his society much, having seen him more

Iclosely than had done before. But his anxiety about the success

and fame of his machine is quite devouring and unhappy. It

seems to me that you authors who embark the thought and labour

of several years in one bottom cannot sometimes muster fortitude

and philosophy enough to look 'tranquilly to the end of the voyage;
Iand when see how oppressive your anxiety sometimes
                                                    if                                                   am

                                                                    is,I
tempted to be less angry with my own fiddle faddle way of swim

ming cork boats in gutter. However your anxiety be great
           a
you must recollect that                           because you look with no unfounded
                  I
                                 a

                         I it
                                         is
                                                 a
trust for golden argosy of fame and influence so push Off your
                                                        ;

                                                            I
boat like a man.  am just setting to work with lectures and a

dozen other things, but will not let you forget that am expect

ing to hear from you.                               sa

                                        a

                                                    Ever yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 15, 1829.

   MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

        It was with very great pleasure that learnt from your
                                                    I
letter that your marriage to take place so soon. After the wayisis I
in which you express your wish that should be present on the
                                                           I                                                 '
occasion,  it  would be no ordinary difficulty which would keep

me away, and am happy to say that shall be easily able to
               I

manage     it.  am really pleased and grateful for your desire that

             I

I  should be with you at the period which to mark your entrance

on a happier life, for do not think you have any friend who
                  I

wishes your happiness more zealously, or who anticipates                   it  more

hopefully from your character and prospects.                                  7

    All this say, you know, only so far as you will allow me to
   it

         I
say without a personal knowledge of her who to be the great
                                                    I is
element of your happiness. And this                        a
                                                                       is
                                                    deficiency in my fitness

to congratulate you adequately which shall think myself fortu

   w. II.

98 sm J. F. w. HERSOHEL 1829.

nate in being able to remove speedily. It would give me great

Ipleasure to be introduced to Mrs Stewart on the 27th, but that

'I fear is impossible. It is the middle of term and dare not play

Ithe truant twice together at times so near as that and March 3rd.
   shall be in London some time this week, probably on Tuesday

evening and on Wednesday, and shall then try to find you out.

I speak somewhat doubtingly of my hope of success in this, for
Iyou have, believe in conformity with the most authentic pre

cedents in similar cases, omitted to give any date to your letter;
i

 Iso that except can find Babbage or some one who knows of your
I Iwhereabouts, shall be at a loss where to look for you.
                                                           shall

be to be heard of at the Athenaeum and probably at Ibbotson's,

IVere St, Oxford St. Pray give my best thanks to Mrs Stewart,
whose willingness to consider me as an acquaintance        hope
I shall soon have an opportunity to shew my sense of.
It seems unreasonable to disturb the current of your feelings

at present by any of the concerns of every day life and therefore

Iyou are not to imagine that attach any importance to the small
Imatters which am going to mention. Do you recollect if you

ever returned to me one or two numbers of Berzelius's Jahres         _

I IBericlzt, think the 4th and 6th, which left with you once upon
Ia time? The one which want is that containing B.'s views on

Ithe new chemical system and new chemical nomenclature which
modern discoveries had suggested.  am more and more con

vinced that chemistry and mineralogy, which have been coquetting

together so long, should be indissolubly married in order to ensure

the happiness and dignity of both parties, but this is a union

Iabout which do not expect to interest you much just at present.
I IHowever suppose you will give me joy if can do'anything

Ito forward the match. The other matter concerns myself per

sonally, and beg you not to take a moment's trouble about it
Iany further than occasion may throw it in your way.
                                                           think
Iyou are a member of the University Club. Lodge and are
balloted for on the 26th. If you can put any body in the mind

to givev us a white ball apiece you will do us a service.
                               a a s is

Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                REV. R. JONEs. 1829.                   99

JMY DEAR ONEs,            RAsrAnr, July 31, 1829.

I, have got so far on my road towards Switzerland and

should have been further, but that the churches have turned
Iout so excessively entertaining that could not possibly go on
I Iwithout looking after them.
                          was not so much pleased as ex

pected to be with the buildings in the Netherlands. The best

churches are of late date, and the civil buildings though of curious

architecture have little harmony in their style. They seem to

I Ibelong to the period just preceding the revolt of the provinces.
But when  got to Cologne  was quite captivated by the odd

ways that the churches have; and there are in that city such a lot

Iof them that had very nearly never got away from them. They

have just resemblance enough with our churches of the eleventh

century to enable us to class them, and at the same time such

a number of novel features as to shew that one's former notion

I Iof the manner of building at that time was very confined. As
  went on found the peculiarities of one group illustrating each

other, and at the same time leading me on to another set, again

a little different, in such a way that it made the most amusing

Iprogress that can be imagined, and made my other objects give

way to this. The whole of the middle Rhine from Cologne to

Spires is full of interest in this way; and at Cologne better than

anywhere else the introduction of the pointed arch as an artifice

of vaulting, and afterwards into the details, might be abundantly
exemplified. And then you have large and splendid buildings

before the change took place, going back up to very early times,

and some of the earliest and most gorgeous specimens of the com

pletely formed Gothic, as the cathedral at Cologne; so that the

series, though not clearly perfect, is very full and almost satisfac

Itory. Wonder how it is that this quantity of materials never set

the German heads to work to classify and theorize, a task they
Iare so fond of when their materials are more scanty.
                                                       suppose

they are like that kind of spider which does not like to have

its thread attached to too many fixed objects, but lets one end
of it float loose to hoist itself up in the air. So many facts would

no doubt cramp a bad theory very materially. These Germans

                                      7-2

100 REV. R. JONES. 1829.

Iare,undoubtedly strange hands at system~making.  met with

a fellow the other day who had made a system of what he called

BiotOmy, by which he explained how the elements of time in a

man's life and space on the surface of the earth had a marvellous
analogy with one another. You would not think it worth while

to attend to the details of this wonderful theory, but the man

(a very grave professor at Bonn) declared to me confidentially that

Ihe considered it as great a discovery as the Copernican system--

provided, he said, it be true, of which cannot doubt. Another

`man has got a project to determine whether the moon is inhabited
by rational creatures; which is of this kind. You must build a

huge wall on Salisbury Plain in the shape of the 47th proposition

of Euclid. If the lunarians are rational they must by this time

have made out a system of geometry, which must be the same

wherever reason is. They will see your diagram. They will
Ianswer you by building something else, suppose the 418th pro
I Iposition.
           think shall go and see this learned Theban who

lives at Munich.

   I Ihave been so much occupied with my churches that have

not run much after anything else. Mineral collections take much

time to see them to any purpose and are not so amusing as old

monasteries; and Professors, except they turn out very good fellows,

Iare not worth making acquaintance with ; so shall trouble myself
Iwith science no more than is convenient. found one or two little

books about the population of the Netherlands which you may

Ilike to look at. They seem to have paid a good deal of
attention to the subject in that country. The region  have
Icome through to-day and yesterday would,
                                           think, have in

terested you. You have long villages, in which the houses

seem to be all of the same rank. No poor, no rich. The

houses large, wood frames and plaster, white-washed, separated

by orchgrds between each, and generally with a trellised porch of
vines in'front. The peasants, tall fellows in large three-cornered

hats, white linen trowsers and gaiters. There is not in all the
Ivillages
           have passed through any house at all resembling in

rank either the peasant's or the surgeon's in an English village.

IFor anything know you can give a. reason for this. The country

                   REV. R. JONES. 1829.                       101

is a. good wine country on the slopes, corn and potatoes in the
Iplains.
                 am new writing in the room next to the one in which a
IGerman table d'hote is feasting. Their meal is supper and sup

pose some 30 of them have been feeding. They make a horrid

din, and have indeed attempted three cheers, but in consequence of

calling out 00, 00, 00, instead of any more congruous sound they
                                                                                                                    '
failed signally in this undertaking.
                                           However, they still go on

gabbling forth gutturals and vowels as broad as the Rhine, in

Isuch a way as to put the partition of the room in a state of vibra
tion at which Herschel would be puzzled.                   am established on

my side of the wall with a flask of Nierstein and a crust of bread

I Iand shall be able to stand their siege some time longer, though
   hope they will let me go to bed in reasonable time, as must be
Ioff early to-morrow.
                       go to Baden, (there is a fellow laughing in

the next room till he crows like a cock and a woman giggling an
Iaccompaniment).
Ilast summer, for  go to Baden mainly because they were there
                   cannot find time to stay there; then to
ISchwarzaeh (an old monastery) and Strasburg.
IMunich, where if you can write you may write to me.          return by
                                                                epistolize

you in preference to eating a greasy supper with my good friends
Iin the next room; but also because often think about you as
I Igrind along with my coiturier.
                                           bestow every now and then

an especial act of recollection and good hope upon your Political

Economy, which from this timeI             expect, destined to have no
                        I it
                               I is

                                     iIs,
stop to its progress except such as Kennedy may insert in. proper
places. Shall find " quick and hasting into birth" in October.

III    hope so.
            travel alone, as cannot otherwise stop when and where
   I
       wish, and have of course abundant time for reflexion. The sum
    of my reflexions about myself much what have told you, that

      have undertaken more than can do and that shall have in
                                           I
                                                I

                                                          a
return no satisfaction except that of proving myself goose.

        The good folks in the next room become more and more noisy.

    It  is       seems an annual party of the landlord's.  I  have stipulated

          it it
    that shall not last more than half an hour longer. Remember

    me kindly to Mrs Jones.

                               Adieu, yours ever, W. W.

102 REV. R. JONEs. 1829.

                            BEALP, Aug. 17, 1829.

   MY DEAR JONES,

      I dare say you cannot see me here in a little hospice about
I Ihalf as high again as your Snowdon, but assure you look down

with great self--complacency upon you mortals who are condemned
to dwell on the ground storey of the earth. It is rather cloudy
Ibut through a little hole in the clouds
                                          can see you very

tolerably. You are looking with great satisfaction at half-sheet

D of your Political Economy and just beginning to discover the

merit and the difficulty of a proper division into paragraphs. You
have got some shockingly ill written heaps of paper lying beside

you, which you are going to make a little more seemly to look
at as soon as you have done correcting your press. ,Mrs Jones

is asking in vain for the meaning of various ejaculations which

escape you from time to time. Be a good boy and take pains

with all the base and mechanical parts of your task, and do
Inot, as did, execute it so imperfectly that you are impatient
Itill a second edition enables you to correct your blunders.
                                                              have

been rambling for some days among the sources of rivers and

am now very near the place where your friend Chevalier Boufflers

must have been when he described himself as being able to spit

into the Mediterranean on one side and the North sea on the
Iother.
         can at this moment hear the roar of some of the foun
Itains of the Rhine, and early tO-morrow shall see the Rhone
Iissuing from his icy urn.
                            have been leading an odd vagabond
Ilife but one of great enjoyment. Two days ago came along a
Iroad which was as wild and savage as anything hoped to see.
I can seldom find occasion. to apply these words, but in this case

they were appropriate enough. The path was a pass from Glarus

to the Grisons, where the way is varied by a huge glacier up the
slope and over the back of which it is necessary to climb. The

glacier is surrounded by enormous precipices down the chasms

of which other'glaciers stretch their ragged skirts. The lower
parts of this prospect were occasionally shewn by the gambols
of huge volumes of mist and cloud which at other times completely
enveloped us. The ice was intersected by large chasms which we

REV. R. JONES. 1829.                                       103

were obliged to coast in order to turn their ends, and often to

turn back because they only led to others. One fellow went first

with a. rope tied to him to pull him out of a chasm if he should

tumble through. The inside of a chasm in the ice is very curious.

The lower part of the walls is blue, as if you were looking into

the caverns of the ocean, and there are hung about and across,

spotless shroud-like sheets and festoons of snow, which make it

look as if it were prepared for a tenant. By dint of 2% hours

of climbing we got to the upper edge of this icy district, after

which the danger and most of the difficulty were over. The

mountain over whose shoulder the pass goes is a very considerable

fellow, being above 11,000 feet high, but the clouds never allowed
Ius to see more than the skirts of the surrounding rocks.
                                                           sup

Ipose our path might be about 8700 feet above the sea. Besides

my regular guide was obliged to take another fellow from the

last-village, and to give him a sovereign for the job. However

Ithis man was worth his money, for besides that could not have

got over without him, he turned out to be an old chamois-hunter

who had got a lameness from exposure to cold, but who was a

hearty lively companion and told me stories about chamois and
chamois-hunters in abundance. But what was not the least enter

taining part of the adventure was my domestication for a day and

Ia night among the herdsmen of one of the highest Alpine pastures.
  do not know whether you have any notion of their situation and

arrangements. Two men and four assistants inhabit a wretched
Ihovel built loosely of fragments of slate rock.
                                                  ate curds and

whey, hot milk, cold milk and various combinations of these with

butter, &c. But my sleeping is not so easily described. Over a

shippen1 filled with pigs the floor is entirely covered by two coarse

Iheavy cloths under which I, my guides and, so far as know, all

the cowmen slept. The place is dark except so far as the crevices

let in light, and is not high enough to sit upright in. These

cowmen have a hard life of it. They are called Saennen (San in
the singular) and inhabit the Saennenhiitte or chalets in summer

for the purpose of making butter and cheeses. They have various

1 Shippen is a Lancashire word for a cow-house.

.104         REV. R. JONES. 1829.

Ialps or pastures at different degrees of elevation. The winter

drives them from the Higher Sand-alp, where was, in about

three weeks from this time. They then take their cattle to the

Lower Sand-alp, which is about 1500 feet lower, and about 5500

feet above the sea. They hire the cattle from various districts,

generally distant ones, for the summer half-year, from St James

to Martinmas, and pay 20 gulden a piece for them, (a gulden is

about 20d.). They also pay a rent of 700 gulden for the Alp.
With 70 cows, (I think) they make three large cheeses a day,
(a cheese sells for 10 or 11 francs), which are the next day
carried down to the lower station. They have also a flock of

goats on similar terms, and a flock of sheep which they buy in
spring and sell fattened in autumn, They have also a herd of

swine at board, which live on the whey--a dark-brown well-made

breed. The men, of course, go out in all weathers, (and the wea
ther is generally bad enough,) morning and evening to milk the

cows, with greathoods of sackcloth about their heads and shoulders.

The cowherds have 48 francs for the summer. The rest of the

day they are- employed in making cheese and butter. The hut
just holds two large cheesepans, a stone fora press, and 'a revolving

churn. They have all their wood to carry up to the hut,- for they

are far above the region of pines. The old man who was my host

Icomplained that it was hard work to make a living out of the
employment.  have this instant had a visit from my present

host who is no other than a Capuchin friar with a long brown

beard, a brown frock and cowl, and a rope round his waist, with

Iwhom have been talking about the condition of this place, which

is curious enough. He declares that 10 months of snow make a

very healthy climate, and that his people live very well with no
Ibread, meat, or firing. have been lucky in my companions; the
Iother day had for my extra guide a crystal-hunter from whom
I learnt many of the localities of minerals which are usually
Idescribed erroneously as coming from St Gothard.
Iup some minerals but no very great quantity.      have picked

                                               must in a few

I Idays begin to turn the visor of my travelling cap northward.

  shall do it with regret, for have a great desire to follow out
my architectural researches in Italy; but this must be for another

        REV. H. J. ROSE. 1830.                                                         105

Itime.  shall return by Munich, and, if possible, both by Weimar
Iand Heidelberg; but believe this is too wide a project.

They are making a new road up the valley of the Reuss and

the wages are from 20d. to 30d. a day; but this it appears is not

enough to tempt the Swiss, and all the labourers are Italians from

the other side, which my guide says is because they can live upon
Ipolenta. which the Swiss cannot. Adieu.
                                          shall drop this letter
Idown to you as soon as have a convenient opportunity. My kind

remembrances to Mrs. Jones.

                              Yours alway, W. WHEWELL.

                              7, SUFFOLK STREET, Jan. 10, 1830.

   MY DEAR ROSE,

      I had rather have talked with you than written about the
Ibusiness you suggest. To tell the truth, do not feel any strong
Idisposition to engage in the project. If it is set a going shall
Iwish it well, and shall very likely put in my word now and then:

but see some objections to it which perhaps you and the friends

Iyou mention have considered more thoroughly than have done.

It seems to me that a provincial paper, even from a University,

could not make its way very rapidly, except it were to season its
articles somewhat in the John Bull style, which would not be well.
1 do not think that fairness and good writing, even'if you could
get a constant supply of them, would do the business. You might

circulate very well among clergyman and university men who are

already convinced, but among the liberal revolutionists you would

probably get no hearing though much abuse; and even the com

mon vacillating popular mind  think, out of the reach of a
        is

                      I
                            is,I

                                                              a

                                                                it

                                                                                 a is
voice issuing from such a quarter. You would moreover be

obliged to make a system of politics, not only on the controverted

points, but on all; which in these mutable times                                       difficult to

do till one forced to it.    say nothing of the chances of writing

feeble, extravagant, or any way bad, which may happen to un

practised people; but there would be a good deal of difficulty in

getting your active writers to agree on system of opinions neither

too lax nor too rigid; and some chance, perhaps not great one,

106 REV. R. JONES. 1830.

Iof splits and collisions arising from differences of opinion.  think

too that your arguments and even your assertions and proofs would

Icome with less weight when issuing from a professional source.
        have for my own part a profound horror of a personal share

in the responsibility of providing food for any periodical creature--
even if it were to be like a household dog to protect you from

Ithieves and robbers. But this suppose other people do not feel
I Ito the same extent. In the case of a newspaper, do not think

could surmount this dislike. No good could be done in such a

case without throwing into what you wrote your whole strength,

and soul, and temper, as well as a considerable slice of your time

(considering that all writing requires materials and preparation).
And these are no small sacrifices, especially for people who have

enough and more than enough already of occupations forced and

voluntary.

   I have told you all that comes into my head against your
Iproject, which hope you will consider as a good-natured reply,

inasmuch as all that can be said for it you probably have

thought of.                          I have not seen the poet

   I go to Cambridge on Wednesday.

and cannot guess the news you hint at. But it seems to be so

Idisagreeable that hope his poetical imagination has had some

share in bringing it into existence. It would be worth something

Ito get him to write politics, which think he is now quite ripe

for. Peacock's war cry is uttered, but he is not so fierce as he

Iwas vied race, and do not despair of our coming to some reason

able understanding. Adieu. Give my regards to .Mrs Rose and

all the rest of your party.

                             Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                             Tam. Corr... CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 28, 1830.

MY DEAR JONES,
I I Ihave put off writing to you because
                                     thought

Imight send a letter along with your next sheet, but that cannot
stir till you send us some more MS.  am glad that you have

satisfied yourself as to your arrangements with Murray, and glad

                 REV. R. JONES. 1830.                                                                      107

J Itoo that acob` is getting a little light as to your merits.                                             do not

think you need be surprized at his criticism: it means apparently

that he understands the latter part Of your book much better than

the former, which, according to my conception Of his character, is

just what one should expect. Take care you do not set too much

your heart upon immediate brilliant success now that you have

Ithrown off all shame in the declaration of your passion, and will

Iguarantee you against failure.
        will get somebody to look over your sheets, but it will be

Imore to the purpose if you and are more careful, for nobody will
give half the pains that we can. I can work pretty well in that
Iway if matters go on with spirit, but not otherwise.
                                                                                                           see your

bookseller has already advertized you as printed at the University

IPress (in the Literary Gazette), and do not conceive that any one

will see any harm in it.

I_ As to my own matters, think your notion about the title

page is sound and good, but unfortunately it did not reach me till
I was already a volume. You will see when Insend you the book
I(which will not be till you send some MS.) that have not put my
Iname in the title page.
I                         have much intended to do                                                         and the
    it

          iIf

                       s

                     I
                        I
                            I

                                                                                                         as

                                                                        it;

                                                                                                            a

                                                  I
mighty matter about which tried to get your advice with per

tinacity worthy of the importance of the occasion was whether

should call myself "a summer tourist'." Some Of our people here

thought not suitable to the dignity of my character--God save

the mark--of which they, as well as you, seem to have awonderful

idea. To tell the truth, when compare your notions about the

management requisite with regard to my reputation, with anything

which am doing, or am likely to do, feel a sort of disposition to

abuse myself as  had somehow unwittingly imposed upon you.

                          aa

                          Adieu. Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

Probably Mr WiHiam Jacob; see V01.     page
See Vol. 1. page 42.
21
                                                                                       1.
                                                                                                       7.

108 REV. R. JONES. 1830.

JMY DEAR cuss,                          ' Tm. Conn, May 21, 1830.

I cannot but be vexed that you persist in tormenting your

self in such a variety of ways, and when other methods fail that

I Iyou should set seriously about being frightened of my own wor
shipful self.  think must, some comfortable evening when we

are together, try to shew you that idleness and procrastination, in

Ispite of the most luminous conviction of their folly, are not faults

towards which can afford to be very intolerant; and that remorse

and shame for all sorts of intellectual and prudential absurdities

Iare feelings with which can offer a very hearty sympathy. When
I have done myself justice in this way, which will not be very easy,
I shall expect that you will consider me a very reasonable and

comfortable sort of confessor when you are a little prickt by the

consciousness of transgression in such matters; and that you will

not let me be the instrument of converting the peevish self-dis

satisfaction which is the natural retribution of such failings into a
Ireally bloody-minded terror and despondency.
                                               had no notion
Ithat your birth-throes would have been so painful, but have no

doubt the bantling will be worth them.                                -

II do not think it is wise in youto force yourself to write in
haste if it worries and tears you so much. Why should you not

lay aside the continuation of your task till all the goblins have

disappeared which you have contrived to summon about it. One

obvious mode of proceeding, and one which offers some advantages,

is to finish and publish Rent, and to leave the rest for another
Iseason.
               have no difficulty in conceiving the annoyance of

travelling on with a pack of printer's devils in full cry after you.

  . 4k is a a

                Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

     [The next three letters relate to Geology. Dr Whewell re
viewed the first volume of Lyell's Principles of Geology`. The

author wrote to the reviewer a letter beginning thus, "I cannot

refrain from thanking you for the great service you have done all
geologists, and me in particular, by your splendid article in the

                                               1 See Vol. 1. page 51.

                        SIR c. LYELL. 1831.        109

IBritish Critic, which have read with the greatest pleasure."

The letter then proceeds to ask for advice with respect to nomen

clature, and the subject is continued in two other letters. In a

note dated Oct. 27, 1873, Sir Charles Lyell said, with respect to
Dr Whewell's three letters in reply to his own: "It strikes me

that there is much spirit, vigour, and originality in the three

letters on nomenclature of the dates of Jan. 31, Feb. 19, and

Feb. 22, 1831. As the terms then suggested were used through

out the eleven editions of my Principles of Geology, and in my
Elements and Antiquity of Man, and adopted in France, Germany,

Iand Italy, the points discussed in these letters on which had

consulted Dr Whewell may be said to form part of the history
of Geology, and will be interesting and quite new to many students

of science."]

                        Tam. Conn, Jan. 31, 1831.

DEAR LYELL,

          Your letter was a source of great delight to me, first because

Iyour praise is well worth having, and next because was rejoiced

to find that you did not think my review too presumptuous, con

I Isidering that all my knowledge on the subject is derived from
persons like yourself.  was afraid after had finished, that in

my speculations upon the trains of thought which your book had

I Iraised, might have omitted to express the great respect felt for
Ithe work and the strong pleasure with which had read and re
Iread it.
           shall be much interested to see your next volume, and

not at all disposed to quarrel with any case you can make out on
account of a myriad of years more or less. So far as you can

prove an order of things interwoven with the present order by
organic evidence, and not separated from it by dislocations differ

ing either in extent, position, connexion, or other circumstances
from supposable recent dislocations, you .have my good will in

going back if you like ten times as far as the Chinese creation.
But it seems to me to be made out that in this retrogression we

do come at various intervals to certain epochs where you have             '
evidence of a transition of another kind. However this will do

                                         -

110 sm C.LYELL. 1831.

Ifor another time; and shall be glad to see your musketry brought

to bear upon the species of cold-blooded animals, which, though it
be death to them, will be, as it was in Esop's time, sport to specta

tors. But you must recollect that you have hitherto been firing

Iwith blank powder, and have not, so far as have seen, a single

species to produce which you have fairly destroyed. My engineer

ing consists rather of mines to overturn your houses than of shot

Ito kill your men.                                                I
        am glad you are trying to concinnate your nomenclature.

will tell you the result of my speculations thereupon. The termi

nation synchronous seems to me to be long, harsh, and inappro

priate. For the fact to be described is not that the species are

contemporary with US, the wretched materials for future anthro

pites; but that they are identical with the recent species which we
Itake for our type of comparison.
                                   would therefore use a term

expressing either identical or recent; perhaps better the last.
Then your terms would be

1 aneous, 2 eoneous, 3 meioneous, 4s pleioneous.

Do you like this? They are shorter than yours. The misfortune

is that the termination neoas would rather look like a mere ter
Imination, as in erroneous, than a derivative from ve'oq.
                                                           had once

thought of these from Tali-rd

               1 atautic, 2 eotautic, 3 meiotautic, 4` pleiotautic;

Ibetter in form, but neither so short nor so significant. Either,

think, is preferable to pleiosynchronous, &c. The words meioneous

and pleioneous (or whatever terminations you take), might be

spelt mioneous, plioneous, &c., and would be so according to the
Latin and old English spelling, in which the Greek 6t become i;
Ibut this has often been violated lately.
                                           like your introduction

I'Of flair, though it-is somewhat poetical, for it will be well remem

bered: but wonder you never thought on the same principle of

calling the early tertiaries `nyctosynchronous', which is a very
Ipretty looking word and quite new.
                                     have been more puzzled

with the task of grouping these classes into two general divisions,

Iand cannot suggest anything better than your own terms ;
                                Preliminial or Tertiary;
                 II Liminial or Penultimate.

                sIR c. LYELL. 1831.                                                              111

By putting them thus you might in referring to the latter division

use Penultimate, whenever it was spoken of absolutely, and Limi--

nial, whenever it was mentioned in correlation with Preliminial.

   I thought at one time of trying to make use of the analogy of
Ithe tenses of verbs, the imperfect, perfect, &c., but could make

nothing of it. In that method of description the next period,

when our organic remains are the materials of speculation, would

Ibe the paulo post futurum.                                                                      it is,I
        shall look with great interest for your classification, for it

conceive, the key to all geological reasoning.                                                   shall try hard to
                                is

                                   I
                                            II
be at the geological dinner, though believe can only manage

by playing truant. Sedgwick here at present constructing his

annual speech.  do not know whether you have heard that at a
I
     I

         I
             I
late meeting of the council we voted the first Wollaston medal to
Wm. Smith, think most Wisely and properly.

        shall be very glad your Oxonians are excited by good saidif
of them: think the prospect so far promising, that this mode
                                is

                                       I
of treatment has not been much tried.     wish Brewster had not

been so thoughtless and prejudiced as to say what he did, for such

things are much easier to repeat, than to weigh, for most people,
and do not think will be easy to neutralize the effect of such
I

                       it

                          I
an article as he wrote. Adieu.   shall be happy to see you crop

out again.                                                                                       3

                                 Yours truly, W. WHEWELL.                                                                     `

It has occurred to me that Kan/69      a better word than ve'oq,
I4

     I

                          e

                                                                  is 1
                                                                      is

                                                                                              2
and propose for your four terms, acene, eocene, miocenc,

pliocene. The termination acne right, as in epicene; at be

coming as well as or. For eocene you might say spaniocenc, but

like your e0 better. Is not this shortest and best?

                                       Arnnmun, Feb. 19, 1831.

DEAR LrELL,

            am delighted that you find anything which you can use
I

                                 is
                                     a

                          iIf

                                                         it

                                                                                            is
in my suggestions, and will try        can hit on anything else to

make your nomenclature more tidy. C'enary or Ownary, a bad

word; the termination  Latin one, and will not be done

112                 SIR o. LYELL. 1831.

scholarly and wisely to stick it to a Greek root. Cenoge-nous is

Iperhaps better than your cenophorous. But if you want to dis

tinguish the cenes from the preceding formations think paracene

and procene would be two good words for them and their predeces

Isors. As to the diphthong do not think the ambiguity of Ker/69

very important. Nobody will know the origin of pliocene, &c.,

till you tell them, and nobody will mistake it when you have told

them. In other cases we brave this ambiguity. Nobody would
eare if there were a possibility of economy coming from film).
Still, if you like the diphthong, use it. It will certainly mark

                                               it                                   like

                                                    is

                                                             it

                                                                    is
                                                                               it,
more distinctly that your termination has something in

Lord Burleigh's head. My objection to          that       not English;

we have no such diphthong, and people do not now write Caesar,
swcular, &c. You have been very meritorious in making geolo

gical words English in their form; delight in your plesiosaurs,
     II
               II

                          if

                         I it
                                  I
and pterodactyls; and  falls to my lot to review your second

volume believe shall retrench your superfluous vowels.

   If were you, think would take the whole word antepen

ultimate, and leave the next generation to dock           they find
                                                     it
                                                        if

                                                           Ia

                                                                         it
too long. You will never get people to alter their accentuation--

     harder than learning a new word. If you choose to have
it

    is

                   II
antepemtlt and pemtlt see no mighty harm in them.

As to your luviality hope you will not adopt such beastly

compound as protalluvio-n, which is wrong at both ends.              cannot

imagine how alluvion ever got its termination. Primalluvium

would be tolerable. But you are content with an arbitrary dis
                       if

                                         is a
tinction, do not see why illuvium may not rank with dzluvium
        I

and alluvium. Perhaps, however, significant word like prolu

vium, praeluvium, or primalluvium better.

is     like your scruples about acene, which think ought to ex
                                               I
 II
clude   it,besides other reasons. You can say `the earliest para

          I
cene' or `the latest procene' formations, which will answer the

purpose.     should hope that this opposition of paracene and pro

cene might, in the  end, exclude  the  word    tertiary,  which  no  doubt
                                                             i
desirable and will ultimately be done.

       think, between you and Elie de Beaumont, we have good
                                                                 a

chance at present of getting chain constructed which will hold
                       a

                     SIR o. LYELL. 1831.                                        '

                                                                  113

the world together pretty well. You must allow some links to be

longer and stronger than others, and he must allow that they all
Ihook into one another.
                         have no. doubt that the present order of

things is but as a watch chain compared with the chains of Baron

Trenck, if you set it by the side of the Alp-making times. But of

this another time.

                         Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

DEAR LYELL,              merrr Conn, Feb. 22, 1831.

                                                                                           '

For thalweg and riggin" I do not think you can do better

than take dale'way and ridgeway, which seem to me to be good

looking English words, and likely to become both familiar and
Idistinct by usage.
                     am mightily delighted with the appearance

of your language now that you have completed it. Your objec

tion to procene and paracene is in the spirit of the true philosophy

Iof terminology. These words indicating classes of a higher order
than pliocene, &c., ought not to have the same form.              am recon

Iciled to cenogene from your economical plan of saving substantives

by it; though am afraid homogene and heterogene are hardly

respectable enough to countenance you. However, it would be
better if they were so, for it is really a scandal upon the luxury of

the times to see a word, of which the radical and essential part is
Ioverlaid with mere termination longer than itself. If had not
IBrogniart's book, would take it of you as well as thank you,
I Iwhich do.
              got it a little while back precisely as a specimen of
Iwanton and worthless terminology.
                                    feel a strong confidence that

your phraseology will obtain permanence and prevalence--for this

reason mainly, that it refers the reader directly to facts, and does

not connect itself with them by any theory or influence. This

inestimable advantage, and the importance and quantity of the

Iinformation which foresee in your second volume and which
Iwill be clothed in this garb, cannot help, augur, making it the
Ilanguage of all geological mouths in the course of ten years. am

    1 Rigging or riggin', according to Sir O. Lyell, is a Scotch  word expressing             the
summit line of the ridge between two parallel valleys.                               8

      W. II.

114 sm 0. LYELL. 1831.

Inot quite clear about lzgpogene, not that object to the word for

being not an exact definition in all cases. In natural history

sciences it       believe always, certainly generally, impossible to
is

        iIs,
have words which are such definitions. What you want words

for to classify: technical classes are not limited by definition,

but bound together by the aggregate of their relations; and in

stead of drawing a boundary line, people should take a central
and normal group and range cognate objects about this. But do
                                                             I
not quite see whether the leading fact in your hypogenes their    iIt, is I

being under the paleogenes, or their containing evidence of some

mode of origin. In either case, however, see no objection to
                                                aI
hypogene; but am disturbed by D'Hallog's trilobite in hornblende
               II
                  I

                         I
                             I

                                            it
slate, and by your understanding hypogene in such a way as to

include this. However, when have time to look your letter more

carefully over, dare say shall see the matter more clearly.

aI  will stand by you in cutting off the tails of the anoplotheres

and paleotheres.  am confident                  will be doing a good action.

\Ve have long been- in the habit of borrowing for the uses of

science words resembling the exotics of hortus siccus, being

dried and, lifeless, with no power of germination even to the extent
of final 8. \Vith clear perception of what you have to say and
                  a

of the idiom of the language in which you have to say        do not

think you need despair of infusing a little more character and

vitality into our scientific phraseology than has lately had.

     Do not fancy meant more than said when spoke of re
viewing. But really there a great satisfaction in speaking one's
                  I

                                      is

                                    I
                                                         it

mind about you geologists, for you seem to be so confident that

the main substance of your lucubrations must be valuable and

permanent, that you allow one to pull about its extraneous

covering without any sort of ill-humour. This                to have to do
             II
                    I

                                                                      it
                                                                                 is

                                                           I
with pachydermatous animals, instead of the usual tribe of authors

who are like molluscs deprived of their shells.

Adieu.         have not time to ponder very exactly what have

written, but hope have given you good words as far as they are

intelligible.

                                Yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

                 REV. R. JONES. 1831.                      115

                          Turn. COLL. Feb. 10, 1831.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

I lose no time in doing that which is a great delight to me,
Jsending you ones's book--long looked for--sometimes despaired
Iof--always desired--published at last.
                                         think you will find it
Iimproved by every page which you have not seen.
                                                  do not see

how it can fail to make its way at once--in the long run its

Ifailure is not possible.
        hold myself to be one of the most fortunate men of the age

in having before me at the same moment, just published by two
Iintimate friends, two such books as yours and his.
                                                     am also
Ibold enough to think that can point out the meaning and merits

of these same books better than most other people. But of this

more anon.
I Ibeg my regards to Mrs Herschel.
                                         conceive this to be a

Icase for mutual congratulation among all right-thinking people,

and beg you will represent my sentiments accordingly.

            Ever, dear Herschel, truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR JONES,                           TRIN. Conn, Feb. 1831.

Senior's notions about the action of science are most
Iadmirable, and quite rejoice to have such specimens of what is
Ito be avoided.
                 will refer to the passages and revel in their
I Iabsurdity as soon as have a moment to spare.
                                                 have a most

Ifirm confidence that by and bye the whole world will think them
as nonsensical as we do.  Shall be glad to see your speculations

about induction when they are finished, for among other questions

it is certainly an important one how the true faith can best be
I Ipropagated.
            have done what could in my review of Herschel.
I Ido not know whether you looked at it in that view, but
Iintended it to be as good an attempt as could make to get the

people into a right way of thinking about induction. What you

would make of a popular exposition of the matter applied mainly
Ito moral, political and other notional sciences is what do not so
Iwell see.
            do not believe the principles of induction can be

                                                     8--2

116 REV. R. JONES. 1831.

either taught or learnt without many examples. Of induction

Iapplied to subjects other than Nat. Phil. hardly know one fair

example. Your book is one. A good deal of Malthus's popu

lation is a beginning of such a process, excluding of course his

anticipatory thesis, the only thing usually talked of. What else

can you produce? or how can you expect to lay down rules and

describe an extensive method with no examples to guide and

substantiate your speculations? You may say a number of fine

things and give rules that look wise and arguments that look
pretty, but you will have no security that these devices are at all

accurate or applicable. Even the Master himself has not escaped

Ierror when engaged in such an employment. It is not that do

not think induction applicable and the examination of its

Irules important in the notional sciences, but do not yet see my
Iway to anything which could propound concerning generals.

There are various subjects which are well worth an examination

for this purpose :--lanyuage, a good example but requiring much

labour; antiquities, especially architecture, of which something

Imay be made; Montesquieu's Esprit ales Lois, which is fear too

imperfect to do any good with; the enquiries concerning taste and

beauty, which are hardly begun inductively. In what you call
Iintellectual philosophy see scarcely a possibility of exemplifying
Iinduction; so if you can make anything of the matter, shall be
Ivery glad to see it.
                       cannot imagine, however, that you will do

your pupil any great good by treating him to all our wise apho
risms. You may enable him to vapour about the successive steps

Iof generalization, and to call his own opinions inductive, and those

he rejects anticipations; but am persuaded he will have no

profitable perception of any valuable truth. If there be any

practical inference to be drawn from the nature of true philosophy,
it is this, that general propositions can no otherwise be under

stood than by understanding the instances they include, and how

the poor boy is to get any good by your declaiming to him about

generalization, when he has not learnt any portion of any science,

is past my comprehension. Let him read Euclid and Algebra,

and when he has done that, Mechanics and Newton, and then

there is some chance of his knowing in his third year what

                    REV. R. JONES. 1831.  117

   Iinduction is. By your way of proceeding cannot but think you

   run a good chance of making the aphorisms just as useful to him
   as the moods and figures of syllogisms, and of giving him into the
   bargain a very groundless contempt for those who have learnt one

   verbal science, because he has learnt another.

   Sedgwick is really reading your book and seems much pleased.

   He has not read enough Of your predecessors in the science to see

   I Iall you have done. But am by no means certain that shall
   Ido your bidding and tell you of all the sayings may happen to
   I Ihear about it.
                    have as yet heard none, but think you would

   not be wise to care about such judgments at any rate. The
   sentences that people utter about a new book at first have
   generally little meaning, often said merely for the sake Of saying

   something, always expressing unformed and worthless opinions;
   and you must be greedy of disquiet to thirst after any such

   praises or to attach any sort 'Of importance to either praise or

   Iblame in such a shape. If you cannot disregard such matters,
     shall think you are hardly worthy to have written so good a book.
      IAs to the reyiew, had thought of trying to get Lockhart to

   put it in the next, but really and truly was obliged to reject the
   Iintention as impossible.
                              do not know what authority you have

   for saying the next will not be out till the end of April or May.

   IL. says the delay will not be more than a week, and could not
   Iwrite it in less than a month if were to devote myself to it day

   and night, with my other employments. Herschel's took me a

   Igood fortnight on a subject quite familiar to me, and when had

   Inothing to read. It would do you little good as well as me, if
      were to write it in such a hurry as to make it contemptible.

   IIndeed it is with great difficulty can now get through my daily

   work. You must let your book have time to make its way.

   There is no fear of its being forgotten, and if you had written

   with the pen of an angel it cannot have the kind of notoriety
   Iwhich a scandalous novel has.
                                    suppose it is now published, as

`  our Cambridge    booksellers have got copies. My recollection Of
   Lockhart's note  is very distinct, that he expected " the Herschel"
   J Iin the March and "the ones" in the June number, so cannot

   comprehend your interpretation.

118 REV. R. JONES. , 1831.

   I I Iam afraid have written you a cross letter, but dare say

the next will be better. In the mean time get your induction

into a readable shape, and give my remembrances to Mrs Jones.
                                                  Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                         TRIN. COLL. April 24, 1831.

MY DEAR JONES,

                ssss

         I like much your aspirations after a reform, or at any rate
Ia trial, in the way of reviewing for ourselves.
                                                  have always had

and have great misgivings about engaging systematically in any

Ithing of the kind, because partly from business, partly from

meddling too widely, and partly from other causes, find great

tracts of ignorance and shallowness in the middle of my know

I Iledge, which might be very inconvenient to a reviewer: but still
   think we could do something. And have a very strong con

Iviction that taking such a. line of moral philosophy, political

economy, and science, as suppose we should, We might partly

find and partly form a school which would be considerable in

Iinfluence of the best kind. In the lighter kind of articles should
Inot fear our doing as well as our neighbours. Criticism would

be somewhat of a puzzle, for do not well know how the people

Iwould agree whom we should probably get together: but sup

Ipose we could avoid all public and indecent quarrels like a

discreet couple. However leave you to finish your ruminations

upon the hopeful project which you seem to have in your

inside.

                an as a  s

         Adieu. God bless you. Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

    [The next two letters were written to J. D. Forbes, after

wards Professor of Natural Philosophy at Edinburgh]

PROF. J.. D. FORBES. 1831.                                119

                                                                           THIN. COLL. June 9, 1831.

MY DEAR SIR,

    I Ishould sooner have answered your letter, but that have

I Ibeen much engaged and was desirous to have first a few minutes

of leisure that might consider how far could offer you any
Isuggestions likely to be of service.
                                       am truly glad that your

visit here left an agreeable impression upon you. We have

reason to be gratified with the good opinion of persons who are,

like yourself, zealous and disinterested admirers and cultivators
Iof science, and we are happy to find that we obtain it.
                                                          rejoice,

for my own part, that you came to make acquaintance with us

Ipersonally, and shall have a pleasure in continuing to cultivate

Iour intercourse on all future occasions. And if can be of any
Iuse in any of your scientific pursuits shall hold myself very

Ifortunate. The education of an English university has no doubt

its advantages which are great, but am not sure that in the

points to which you refer, the acquisition of mathematics as a

preparation for physical research, there is anything communicated

to the student which may not be amply supplied by such a course

Iof study as you may easily go through for yourself: and will
Idescribe as exactly as can what appears to me the most advisable

Icourse of reading for such a purpose.
        by no means think it necessary to go through Lacroix's

Traite'. You would find a great deal there which would be of no
use and would occupy much time. At the same time in the

present state of science and its prospects there is no part of pure

Imathematics which can be considered as beyond the wants of

physics, and what would propose goes on the supposition that

you have acquired so much as to be able to go on with any part

of Lacroix, or any similar work, which is wanted. The requisite

preparation for this appears to me to be some elementary treatise

on Differential and Integral Calculus (Boucharlat's as good as
any) and something on Finite Difl'erences (Herschel's Treatise

Iin the translation of Lacroix for instance).
         should then recommend you to read Poisson's Mechanics

and Hydrostatics carefully, to see both the mode of generalising

Physical principles and of I applying. pure Mathematics to them.

120 'PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1831.

IAfter this should say the best thing to be done is to read some

good treatises on some branches of physics which include the
higher parts of mathematics; and, when it is necessary, to turn

Iback to your treatises of pure mathematics to supply whatever
you find you want in that department.   would mention in

particular Airy's Tracts (of which he is just preparing a new
Ifedition to include the vibratory theory of Optics).
                                                                     you can
Iread this do not think you need fear anything, and yet it does
Inot appear difficult.
                        would also mention a treatise on the

Mathematical Theory of Electricity in the Encyclopaedia Metro
Ipolitana which
                 compiled from Poisson's papers, and which
I particularly refer to, because the- mathematics is of the most

general and abstruse kind which has yet been introduced into

Physics, and is also in a great measure of the same sort as that

Iwhich occurs in Poisson-ls researches on heat which appear to
come into your line of investigation-   do `not think you will

I Ifind any insurmountable difficulty in this Article, but if you do

and will let me know, will do what can to elucidate it. Also

if you read Poisson's papers on the laws of the distribution of

Iheat and will inform me of what. appears diflicult, will gladly
Ilook at it. This will be theless trouble to me as shall have in
Ia short time to read these memoirs carefully. may also mention

among such applications of mathematics Herschel's Treatise on
ILight.
          think the study of such- books. will do more to fix the

useful parts of mathematics   in your mind than. the express
reading of pure mathematics.                                                                      `

There is a book by Pouillet on Physics and Meteorology which
Ihas already reached three volumes.
                                       is                            but have
                                                                it,
                                       have not read

heard    well spoken of. The author
I                                       Gay-Lussac's colleague.
    I itIt contains but little mathematics.

       do not know whether my recommendations will fall in with
Ifyour plans at all.
                 I    can improve them by any further expla

nation,   shall be glad to do so.      hope have not delayed
                                     I
                                            I

writing so as to put you to any inconvenience.                       In
     We shall probably meet somewhere during the summer.

the mean time believe me, my dear Sir,

                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1831.                                                                              121

                                    Tnmrrv COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, July 14, 1831.
MY DEAR SIR,

    I am sorry to hear you have been reminded of Sedgwick

by a touch of his familiar ailments, and even he was not so

Idesirous of your sympathy in his dyspeptic lamentations as to
hear without regret of your being a fellow-sufferer.  still think

you cannot do better than go on with Poisson's lllécanique, which

Iseems to me much better adapted than mine for your purpose.
   refer particularly to the mode of getting very general problems

into equations, which is no small portion of the battle, and of
H Iwhich the ydrostatz'que in Poisson is- a good specimen.
                                                                                                       believe
I spoke of Poisson as a writer on the theory of heat, but the
Iwriter whom 'I intended to mention is Fourier, and should

recommend you his The'orie de la Chaleu'r, as soon as you have

got Lacroix and Poisson under the dominion of your gastric juices.

Fourier's book is a moderate quarto, not very hard when you

Ionce get hold of his reasoning, and a- very instructive example
of the application of analysis.  think it would every way be a
Ifbetter study than either electricity or optics.
                                                      you have any

difficulty in procuring the book, and think it worth while to have

Imy copy sent you, will pack it off to you with great pleasure

for as long as you want it. Connected with the subject of heat,

Iyou probably know Dulong and Petit's researches about gases.
   do not think there are any analytical investigations connected

Iwith them, but believe a little mathematics comes in.. Herschel's

ICalculus of Finite Difi`erences is not to be had separately that

  know of, but if you cannot easily get hold of read the treatise
I
   I

                              I
                                                                             it,
                                                                                                   is
on the same subject in the Traite' Ele'mentaire of Lacroix, which
will set you up sufficiently for the present.

        have been much interested with your speculations on climate
in Brewster's Journal; an important and as yet infant subject.

shall be very glad to hear of anything further you do in that

way. Airy goes on here pursuing Optics among other matters--

predicting the most curious phenomena from calculation, and

finding his predictions verified by experiment. He printing

his Optical Tract, which will, think, he a very valuable present

to the student of that subject.

122 REV. R. JONES. 1831.

   I Iam afraid shall not meet you at York. Even if other
Icircumstances allowed me, should feel no great wish to rally

round Dr Brewster's standard after he has thought it necessary

to promulgate so bad an opinion of us, who happen to be pro
fessors in Universities. He seems, with respect to such people,

to have the power of imagining the most extraordinary things

without a vestige of foundation: and just as he chose to fancy

before that we each 'had a thousand a year (which notion he
persists in referring to), he has now chosen to fancy that we are

all banded together to oppose his favourite doctrine of the decline

of science; though the only professor who has written at all on

the subject is Babbage, the leader of the Declinists. It requires

all one's respect for Dr Brewster's merits to tolerate such bigotry

and folly.         #- i- * *

   I am much gratified by your taking the trouble to read my
Ipaper on Political Economy. Pray recollect that profess only

to trace the consequences of Ricardo's principles--principles
Iwhich am sure are insufficient and believe to be entirely false.
I Iwas much obliged by your list of errata.
                                             had detected most

but not all--and am ashamed of the length of the muster.

Sedgwick is still here expecting to have done with his pen

and to have to take to his hammer in about a week. Few others
Ifof your friends are here.
                             you come and see us in October or

November you will hear our summer stories.

                   Yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR JONES,               TRIN. COLL. July 15, 1831.

You will probably have seen by this time that Lockhart

has published `the Herschel' and suppressed ` the Jones,' at least
Ifor the present.
                   am very wroth with him for the whole of his

proceeding, but my anger has long ceased to be of a character

which is likely to blaze out in letter writing, and indeed has

Ireceived small accession by this last step of his. He shall go on

as he likes and hear nothing from me, and am not sure that

I shall take the trouble of disliking him for what he has done.

               REV. R. JONES. 1831.                      123

I Iregret his not publishing the review of your book, but trust it
I Ihas grown out of any want of such help, and, as told you, had
Imuch restrained my laudatory disposition.
                                            cannot say that
I Imuch like the review of Herschel now that look at it in cold
Iblood, and have a strong persuasion that all the philosophical

part will repel most and puzzle the rest, except it be seized upon

by somebody who resolves to prove it wrong.              am

   I Iam amused to hear of your passages with Whately;

quite ready to fight, and very confident of getting the better.

But people care so little about all matters of method abstractedly

Iconsidered, that should be better satisfied of obtaining notice if

we had more to shew in the way of example of the right method

--in short if you would get your Wages published. The feeling on

which Whately founds his opinions, that principles of action are

known by consciousness and do not require detailed observation,

is not true as to masses, but it is plausible and generally assumed,
and it will take some trouble to eradicate. The analogy between

physical and political or economical science is yet to be`shewn.

There is no want of abundant means of shewing the actual folly

and essential barrenness of their method, but if this be made the

prominent feature of the dispute, people will ask you to reckon

Iyour fruits: so vindemiate as fast as you can. Though talk so
Iwisely enjoy the prospect of a row, and can hardly help setting
Ito work with the Logic at once. But must see or hear from you

more and learn what your plan of operations is. It is a filthy

business having to do with these reviews, except one could have

one's own way as to time and so forth, which editors will not, and

I suppose cannot, allow. Apropos of him of the British Critic---
I hope you have heard of him. He has the reputation of manag
Iing his business very negligently; and find it was in consequence
Iof this part of his character that got no coin from him. It is
               ''
soon to come.

You may perhaps recollect when you see the Quarterly Review

that a passage about the Family Library near the beginning, and

Ione about Sedgwick and others near the end, are interpolations of

the Worthy editor's. With the latter, however, by no means

quarrel, except at being made to praise Leslie's style.

124 REV. R. JONES. 1831.

   I have been busy with vile business--abhorred of all philoso
Iphers, and most of all of me--ever since saw you. Yesterday
Iwas my first holiday, so bought a copy book and began writing
I I Iastronomy.
                 think see my way and like my work, but have
Ia good deal to read and hardly know how shall get through it,
I If Ifor cannot keep free from disturbance here.
                                                   can reduce my
Ibooks within reasonable compass, will elope with them. My

Induction is a perpetual snare to me, for everything belongs to it;

Ibut shall keep my nose steady towards final causes for some

time, and then look about me and see what can be collected on

Imy path as materials for the Temple you talk of. Do you know
  think it would be by no means beneath the dignity of our office

to speculate somewhat about what the Master calls the Georgics
Iof the subject.
                  think the practical rules and cautions for making

I Iexperiments and collecting laws from these, as far as modern lights
can help us, may be a very proper chapter.  wish could get

Herschel to write it.

                  s a a is

                       Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                                   July 23, 1831.

   MY DEAR Jones,

      I Ido not think shall get away from this place imme
Idiately; indeed cannot very well foresee when such a thing may
Ihappen. My subject or subjects grow upon me faster than can
Idispose of them, and do not like to leave unrecorded and unem
Iployed a number of trains of thought which, if lose at present,
I shall never be able to resume with equal advantage. Among
Iother things have got hold of a new science, which is altogether

admirable both for my theology and for my induction--one of

I I Iwhich, confess, augured no such matters, and for which had

somewhat of a contempt. What do. you think my new pet is ?--

Meteorology. The people have been collecting facts for a very

long time (ever since Noah), and are now just beginning to get a

Inotion of the general laws and properties into which the mass is
to be resolved.   do not know any subject which is at present in

                 REV. R. JONES. 1831.                      125

so instructive a condition. Moreover, those who pursue it talk

excellent philosophic, prima, as is always the case among people so
employed; the wisdom which people utter under the unconscious

tutoring of practice is very noticeable in the business of the intel

lect, as well as of the hands and the heart. There is in especial

Ione man whom have always despised because he is certainly not

clear-headed as to his mathematical conceptions, and who gene

rally passes for a stupid man: but he is an excellent fellow for

Iinduction, and even talks much to the purpose about methods...

  should not wonder if you glory in finding that mathematics is

not essential to philosophy. But this want makes the man a
Imost troublesome fellow of a writer. Moreover, have got out of
Ithis matter a most admirable set of Bridgewaterisms, and am
Iindeed mainly employed in getting these upon paper.
                                                           am
I Ihugely delighted with what am doing, but begin to have less

trust in this feeling, having found that it may delude me; how

I Iever, you shall see what have done, and tell me how far am

right.
I Ithink still can get through the most of what most presses
Ion me now in another week or so, and then will run away.
IBut think my time will then be almost come to go northward,
I Iwhich must do before September. However, when
                                                           see my
Iway better through the haze of works and days will tell you,

and will try to get my valuable copy book shoved under your

critical nose. Only pray use your eyes as well as your nose; for

this is to be the best part of my book; and it much behoves me

Ito know whether have, or can obtain, any chance of getting hold

of people's attention and approbation. In this matter, where

I am to receive a thousand pounds, it is by no means enough that
I Ishould know that am right; though that will be the main

Iconcern when write for my own satisfaction and the instruction

of the world, like yourself and other great philosophers.

How are you disposed at present towards the Logician? IS it
Ifpeace or war?
                 you will give us illustrations and examples of

the ascending method applied to moral sciences, we shall have no
Idifficulty in fighting the `downward road' people.
                                                           have got

some additional views, but no removal yet of my doubts as to the

126'  REV. w.. VERNON. HARCOURT. 1 831.

identity of the scientific method (that the method of making a
                                                               is,I
science) in physical and moral sciences.                             may perhaps be able to

tell you more of my notions of this by and bye, when get rid of
                                                                                       I

the clouds and climates.                                 s  s

                                                     *-                            is

                                                            Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

     [The next two letters were written to the Rev. W. Vernon
Harcourt of York; they relate to the origin of the British Associa
tion for the Advancement of Science]

                                                                     LANCASTER, Sep. 1831.1,

SIR,

      Without pretending to decide immediately on the probable

success of such a project as you suggest of an Association among

the men of science of this country, conceive that such a pro
I

           it

                 iIf

                                                            a

                                I
posal must be looked upon with interest by all lovers of science,

and shall be happy                                       can contribute any hints which may be
Ifof service to you in developing it.
                                                             such a plan could be carried

into effect, would certainly give to the meeting at York a higher

utility than that which would be likely to arise from the personal

intercourse of those whom such motive might bring together,

though even this may no doubt have very great advantages.

     The objects of such an Association as you mention would appa--
rently be, to place before its members a view of the present state

of science, to select future subjects of examination, and to encour

age in some way or other researches on such subjects.

      conceive that such mode of action might be of very great
I

                                 is
                                           a
service to the scientific character of this country. The researches

of our men of science have been too much insulated from each

other and from what doing in other countries; and the bearing

of what they have done upon the present state of science has not

been often clearly placed before the public. This inconvenience

might be remedied by the publication of reports, drawn up by

well qualified persons, of the recent progress and present condition
of the different departments of our knowledge. The annual
speeches of the President of the Geological Society, and in some

REV. w. VERNON HAROOURT. 1831.     127

degree those on similar occasions in the Astronomical Society,

have been good examples Of what such reports may be: and these

have been of great use. In most other branches of science we

have had no such views presented to the world in this country.

In Paris reports of this kind upon science in general are drawn up

by the Secretaries of the Institute, and excite much interest.

Berzelius every year presents a similar report to the Royal Aca

demy of Sweden.

   I Offer you the following suggestion as one course of action

among others for your consideration. The meeting at York might,

in any way that was thought best, select one or two of the most

eminent men in Britain in each department of science, and might

request them to draw up respectively a report upon their own

subject; stating what had recently been done both abroad and here,

what is the present state of the science, and what appear to be the

points most to be recommended for investigation at present, either

in consequence of their importance or their promise of discovery.

Such reports might be presented and read at a future meeting

either a year hence or at some shorter period. The extent and

degree of the interest excited by the prospect of such reports

would enable the founders of the Association to judge what chance

of success the temper of the country gave them; and these reports

thus collected would be very valuable guides and materials in all
Ifuture proceedings.
                      conceive that any man of science applied to

to compile such a report, would feel himself distinguished by the

selection, and would feel also the obligation of research and im

partiality which such an Office would involve. The reports would

of course be printed, and the reading and the consideration of

them would be a prominent part of the business of the next
Igeneral meeting.
                   conceive that, independently of any ulterior

Isteps, the publication Of such a View of science would be both very
interesting and very instructive.  will mention a few names

which occur in connection with different subjects as examples

merely, and nothing more, of the persons who might probably be

engaged to give you such sketches of the aspect and prospect of

their studies. In Geology you know how rich in such persons you

are. Sedgwick, Conybeare, Buckland, Lyell, &c., &c., would any

128 REV. w. VERNON HARCOURT. 1831.

Iof them do the work well, and indeed as have already said it is

almost done already. Astronomy might be separated into Physical

Astronomy, of which the principal cultivators in our own country are,

I think, Ivory, Airy and Lubbock: and Observing Astronomy, where

you have many good names, Herschel, Airy, Brinkley, &c. In the

recent researches about Light you have Brewster, Herschel, Airy,

who have occupied themselves with experiments, and the two

latter more especially with the theory. The properties of Heat are

another subject, in which much has been done and much remains

to be done. Dalton and Leslie have been our principal discoverers.        >

B. Powell, of Oxford, has been pursuing a portion of the subject;

Iand believe several of our best chemists have attended to it.

Connected with this is the subject of Meteorology, which appears to

be making considerable progress. Dalton, Luke Howard, and

Daniell are the principal persons who have prosecuted  I it,and the

two latter would be able to tell you in what condition they con

ceive to be. You probably know much better than do who
: it
are most likely among our chemists to take an impartial and

enlarged view of the present state of their science: Turner appears

to be eminently well informed and candid.  I  hardly know who at

present can be considered as peculiarly well acquainted with May
netism Kater and Barlow may be mentioned. Electricity
                                                              I

suppose would be got from some of the chemists: as might Electro

magnetics and Thermo-electrics. Professor Cumming of Cam

bridge, has pursued these latter subjects with considerable care.

In Botany you have the names of Lindley, Hooker, Wallick, &c.,

but with this and other branches of Natural History will not
                                                       II
presume to meddle. You will, suppose, find no lack of students
                         I

                               is
of them. Comparative Anatomy another division of the subject

which ought not to be omitted.  I  should suppose that one of the

most difficult of the sciences to speak distinctly and impartially about

must be Physiology, but  a very important and apparently a
      I

            it

                  is
very progressive one. will only add that Mr Willis, of Cambridge,

and Mr VVheatstone, appear to be the persons who principally attend

to the subject of Sound: and that  it  would be proper,       should

think, to make Geography one branch of your report, which would

lead you to Greenough, Beaufort, Basil Hall, and the other London

       an. w. VERNON HARCOURT. 1831.        129

Igeographers.  have only mentioned these subjects, and these
Igentlemen, as exemplifications of what you have before you; and

think if you could induce a number of these to join in preparing,

by next year, a joint representation of the present condition of

British Science, and of the views, concerning the points now to be

attended to, which its most eminent cultivators entertain, you

would do something to give it a fillip.

This refers to a part only of your object: but after such a

survey of the place where we are, you would be better able to

judge of the mode of advancing. There would be no difficulty in

finding subjects to recommend to the notice of scientific men either

by means of prizes or in any other way. It would however be

desirable to select subjects where we appear to be approaching

towards discovery, 01' where asserted discoveries appear to require
confirmation. You know how easy it would be to suggest such in

Geology, if we could send persons provided with knowledge and
money to other countries. In Chemistry, no one in England ap

pears to pursue the subject of Isomorphism, the most important

Iand promising step, should conceive, which has been made in

the science for many years. The connexion between the chemical

composition of crystals and their form is another subject where we
cannot but hope that something will shortly be known. The con
ditionof the upper regions of the atmosphere as to heat, moisture,

and wind, and the physical differences between different kinds of

clouds, is another promising subject. Every one probably could

mention such in his own department of science.

   I can hardly pretend to suggest any thing at present as to the

arrangements concerning prizes, funds, &c. As to the materials of

Ithe Society would ask, for the sake of consideration, whether it

might not be better to make your Association consist of all persons
who have written papers in the memoirs of any learned society.

It Iwould be desirable think in some way to avoid the crowd of

lay members whose names stand on the lists Of the Royal Society.

    All Committees on memoirs presented or on any subject con

cerned with science ought to give public reports of their views.
The neglect of this practice appears to me a serious deficiency in

the arrangements of the Royal Society.

w. n.                                    9

1 3O       REV. W. VERNON HARCOURT. 1 83 1 .

   I have written very hastily the first ideas which offer them
Iselves, and must beg you to consider them rather as thrown out

for your consideration than as asserted in preference to anything
Ielse.
        shall be extremely glad to hear that your plan or any
Imodification of it is likely to be carried into effect.
                                                          am really

Isorry that it is out of my power to attend the meeting in person.
  am one of the examiners for College Fellowships this year, and

I Iour examinations take place at the same time as your assemblage.

  think if you can get such a set of reports as have described it

will be the best beginning for any good plan, and another year
will shew what can be done.

  If I Ican offer any further suggestions likely to be of service

shall be happy to do so. Ishall be at Harrogate probably on

Tuesday or Wednesday next, and at Cambridge by the end of the

week. At either place your letters will find me.

                I am, Sir, yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

    [It may be interesting to record as an illustration of the
expense of postage in former times, that the charge for conveying
the preceding letter from Cambridge to Y`ork was two shillings

and Sixpence]

                                           Sept. 22, 1831.

DEAR SIR,

      I send you along with this a letter containing some of the
Isuggestions which mentioned in my letter to you, expressed in a

Iform in which they may be communicated to any of your scientific
visitors if you think it useful to do so.  am far from wishing

you to notice them except you think they may be serviceable;

Iand think it very likely that those who are present at the meet

ing will be much better judges of the advisable steps to take.

I Ishall therefore be very well satisfied if find you have not
Ithought it necessary to make any use of them.
                                                          was much

Iobliged by your considerateness in accepting my former letter as
in some degree confidential, which indeed  intended it to be.

The suggestions and names were intended to be, possibly, some

assistance to you in developing the plan you mentioned; and

            REV.-W. VERNON HARCOURT. 1831.           131

I would on no account ofl'er my opinions to the meeting on such

a subject.                                  `

   I IIn answer to your enquiries beg to say, that if were invited
Iby such a meeting as conceive yours will be, to prepare a report
I Ion the state Of the science of which am Professor, should do so

Iwith great readiness and to the best of my ability. With respect

to holding any oflice in your Association should wish at present

Ito be excused: It is very possible that may be absent from

England the whole of next summer, and it may perhaps be best

at first to select your officers from those who are present at the

meeting, and are of course the most obvious persons.

   If you were to determine to hold the meeting hereafter in suc
Icession at different places, am sure that a large portion of our

members would be gratified with your selecting Cambridge. The

Philosophical Society, whose members would naturally feel a

strong interest in such an arrangement, cannot now be consulted.

There might be some doubt about the best time of our receiving

scientific visitors, for in the vacation (from June to October) the

Iuniversity is deserted by most of its usual inhabitants, and should

be sorry, for the sakes of many of them, that they should be

Iabsent on such an occasion. The following is a suggestion which
   beg leave to offer you. The Visitation of our Observatory is

always held in May; and on this occasion we have generally had

some strangers here, who took an interest in science, and have

been happy to see all such. If the party becomes next year more

Inumerous and more distinguished, we shall rejoice the more.
   cannot at present tell you the day in May, nor offer any invi

tation beyond my own; but upon the strength of this you may

inform your visitors, if you think it desirable to do so, that we

are always glad to see men of science here at the period of our

Visitation, and will do what we can to entertain those who may

come here next May. Any further arrangements which may be

Inecessary can be made hereafter.                     `

wish you the best success with your Association, and shall.

be extremely desirous to hear of its proceedings. Believe me,

dear Sir,

Your very faithful and obedient servant, W. WHEWELL.

                                               9--2

132 SIR J. r. w. HERSCHEL. 1831.

                     . Tnmm Conn, Sept. 18, 1831.

     MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

        I was with Airy in Derbyshire when he received a letter
 Ifrom you in which, as understood, you told him that you had

` some intention of writing a book about Photonomy. You know

 Iperhaps how solicitous am that my friends should not use bad
 I Ilanguage; and accordingly have been minded, ever since knew

  this, to write to you to beg you to think twice before you give such

a name to the part of science which treats of light.

   I conceive that you form Photonomy by analogy with Astro

If Inomy, and suppose the latter word to refer to the Laws of the
stars.         you suppose this, believe the supposition is wrong.

IThe termination ova/we has nothing to do with law, but comes

from vépm, the verb, which means, suppose, to have to do with,

or some such matter. Ai'yovo'uos`, Bouvépoc are fellows who keep                   _

goats and cows, oilcovouoq manages a house; in like manner dO'TPO

Ifvalues is a star--driver or star-manager or star-monger, and duo-ro
véaoq is a light-monger, thatII    a wax-chandler.                      you doubt
                                I I is,
this, look either in the lexicons, or in the beginning of Delambre's
                                                                    a
Astronomy.                                                           aname for the part

    It very true that we very much want
a
           isof science which treats of Light. We also want names for some

other branches of science, as that which treats of Heat, which          is is

going on almost as fast as Light.  have been in the habit (in my

MSS.) of using names which seem to me to have as close an

analogy as one can establish with the names of recognised sciences

(Mechanics, Hydrostatics, &c.).    have called one Photistics and

the other Thermotics: (momma and esppo-rucév are as good

Greek as a'rcoua'rmév).  do not care whether you take these or

any other words, but should be sorry that large family of

onomies should come in under false pretences to reinforce the

brood of ologies. 'Jones has got his own peculiar onomy. Ille

habeat suam...Don't you go and make him fancy that we are

obliged to put on his uniform.       want to have coats with no
                         I
                                  I
tails--not to terminate either in MSon or vé/Aoc--each Of which

horrid "black fish."     would stick to the root of the matter.

         SIR J. r. w. HERSCHEL. 1831.                           133

Light is light, heat is heat--there is an end of the essentials, and

why should you be so superfluous as to stuff in anything else 2

   ISo much for this weighty business, which should not wonder ,

if you think hardly worth a letter. But there is another affair

I Iwhich should have been glad to consult you about, and if were
Inot inextricably engaged 'for this week, would have come over to

Slough on the chance of finding you at home, and willing to
" trust the Ruler with His skies" for half an hour. The managers

Iof the York meeting have applied to me, as believe they have to

Iyou, for hints about the possibility of managing it so as to make it
useful.  do not think there is any chance of exciting the kind

and degree of interest about such occasions which they produce in

Germany; but if there be any obvious prospect of stimulating the

zeal of men of science and giving a useful direction to their

Ilabours, should be very unwilling to refuse a share in the task

of raising the requisite shout: albeit being much more willing to

follow my own devices, and very doubtful about the chance of
Idoing any great good by this machinery.
                                          shall not be able to
Igo to York, but the advice gave was to this effect; that the

meeting should select eminent persons in each department of

science, and beg them to make, by next annual meeting, reports

as to the present condition of their respective provinces, and the

points where research will apparently be most useful; that the

purport of these reports, and the degree of interest which they

may excite, should be the guide and basis of future operations of

this Association if it continue ; and that at any rate such a collec
tion of reports, if it can be procured, be printed, by which means

Ithe witenagemot will not have met in vain.
        want much to know whether you see any chance of any good

Iarising from such a proposition. put it forth rather as a con

jecture concerning a possibility thanas anything else. One of the
         if                               that the meeting

                              a

                                     if

                                                           is,

                                                          it

                                               it I
suggestions which my correspondent makes

may be held at Cambridge next year, we think good. One

would not repel people by any apathy or backwardness when they

ask your sympathy in such case; but at the same time should

be sorry to urge men of science to come here and make a huge

congregation, as we intended to say we would make worth

134 MR J. w. LUBBOOK. 1881.

their while to do so. If it really comes to a question whether we

shall encourage the spawns to visit us en masse, it would be very

desirable that we should be able to guess whether the best of

them would accept the invitation. Suppose that 'it were proposed

to hold such a meeting in Cambridge next year, would you be

likely to countenance us by taking an interest in and joining        is is it,
Ifthe party?
                you do not see any good likely to come of such a       I

proceeding,     shall think there no great hope to be entertainedI is       it
                you keep aloof from the meeting, shall not expect
of it; and
it                                                           I it I

          if I
to assume the character which would make                             attractive and

useful. My enquiries are very hypothetical, for think rather

unlikely that the proposition to meet at Cambridge next year will

be made on either side. My intention at present to tell my

correspondent that the Visitation of our Observatory always held

in May, that we shall then be glad to see as many scaoans as
possible, and will do our best to entertain them; and will tell

him the precise time as soon as can.               I         wish could have seen
                                                             I

you, for        hardly possible to expound to you how little of sub
          it

            I is
                          is
stantiality there in these speculations, but, at the same time,

how desirous am of knowing something of your views about this

august proceeding.

   do not know whether you have looked at what have said
I                                                                    I
                                                                         I

                                                                                   it
of you in the Quarterly Review`. am very little satisfied with
                                        is I
                                             I
myself; and, least of all, with the good have said of you, which

far less than thought. Jones also turning reviewer.                             have
is

             I

just been with him to Haileybury, where Malthus and he had

divers palavers Of no common length, hope to their mutual
                                                   I

instruction and comfort. Pray give my regards to Mrs Herschel.

                              Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR LUBBOCK,                                   TRIN. Com.., Nov. 12, 1831.

          think you are one of the Committee for revising the laws
I
       I

                                             1

                                               I.
of the R. S.    have been applied to to join this Committee, but

have been obliged to decline for want of time. But there are

                              See Vol.             page 54.

                  SIR J. w. LUBBOCK. 1831.                               135

Ione or two suggestions which will mention to you and which
Iyou may use or not as you like.
                                  am strongly persuaded it

would tend much to give both spirit and value to the proceedings

of the Society if papers were referred to Committees, who sh0uld

give written reports upon them and abstracts of them; and also if

annually or at some proper interval, the president, secretary, or

some other person, should be called upon to give a survey of

the progress of science during the intervening interval, and

 Iof the share in it which the Society's proceedings might occupy.
      would refer to Cuvier's and Fourier's annual reports of this
- kind as admirable instances of the beauty and instructiveness of

 Iwhich such compositions are capable. In a more limited Society
     should think the practice of Eloges on departed members also

a good institution, but in the R. S., constituted as it now there

would be difficulties about this. If you or any body concerned
                     I;
                          I

                                 is I

                                                   a
                                                                is,
wish to have reasons pointed out for the opinions have stated
above think could give strong ones but will not detain you
I         (if

   I        if I
with them now.

send you some memoirs which have received for you in

a pacquet from Quetelet. By the way there              problem in

Biometry  you choose to call your calculations on lives by a

Greek name) which may perhaps be included in something you
have done, and so should be glad you would point out the

solution. It occurs in some of ones's speculations. It this:

    "It said to be ascertained that to put 05 to later period of
                  I  J
                                 if
is
                                                         a
                                                                     is

life the average age of marriage, does not diminish the average

number of children to a marriage. This being assumed, to find

the efl'ect on the increase of the population produced by a given

retardation of the average age of marriage."

may mention, on another of your subjects, that you will
I

                   a

                              I

                                                   J.
find some American tides'in the American Almanack, which you
may get at bookseller's who lives, think, in Henrietta Street,

Covent Garden.

                     Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

[The next letter was written to Professor              D. Forbes]

136 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1831.

                         Tnmmr Common, Cmsnmon, Dec. 16, 1831.

MY DEAR SIR,

       I was much interested by all that your letter told me about

the York meeting, and have conceived the best hopes of the future
I Ifortunes of the Association from all have since learnt.
                                                                am

, particularly glad to find that you are to give us a Report on the

science of Meteorology.  The subject is so important and so
Iinteresting that am rejoiced it has been picked out from the

crowd Of sciences, and is to be treated of by a person who has

Igiven his attention to it. have myself read a good deal on this

and related subjects, and shall be glad if you will let me make a

few enquiries as to the extent of research which your Report will

include. Meteorology is connected with so many other subjects

that it will require an exercise of discretion to fix its limits; and

all the subjects on which it most depends are in that rapid state

of change and progress which makes them very attractive topics.

You will of course tell us what has been done with the barometer

Iin this and other countries. But should be desirous of knowing

how far you intend to go in the very important subject Of

IHygrometry. If am not mistaken this will turn out to be the

branch of Meteorology which most requires cultivation. The

theories of vapour, Saussure's, Deluc's, and especially Dalton's,

Jmust be decided upon in the progress of the study. The different

Hygrometers, especially Daniell's, and ones's improvements

it,on are of great consequence.believe the greater part of

     2,
          p.

          I
                             I

                                                                                      it
meteorological phenomena- will be fOund to depend on the com

bination of Dewpoint and Temperature in different parts of the

atmosphere. Humboldt has recently published two volumes on

the Ge'ologie et Climatologie Asiatiques (Paris, 1831). You will
there find some speculations on isothermal lines and various other

matters which suppose will belong to your domain; and

appears from what he says that in his experiments he used an

instrument which'a M. August has invented and called a Psycho

meter, to answer the purpose of Daniell's and Leslie's Hygrometer
       375). It appears that August has written an Essay,
(Tom.

Sur les progrés de l'Hygrome'trie dams les temps modernes.

                  PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1831.     137

The formation of tables of Meteorological observations is a

labour which up to the present time does not appear to have

been attended with any very valuable results. Cotte (Traite' ale

Me'te'orologie,  I1774) gives an account of what had been done up
                    believe Toaldo is one of the best authors of this
to his time.

kind. Howard "On the Climate of London" is a very interesting.

book; and his classification and nomenclature of clouds is a very

important step in the modern history of the subject. One must

allow this, even if we do not assent to his system ; for an arrange

ment of cloudsiaccording to their formation, their appearance,

and the circumstances of weather which precede and follow them,

is highly important and must have much to do with any sound

knowledge Of the phenomena Of weather. Howard attaches great

importance to the electricity of the atmosphere, and considers

that agency as very operative in producing clouds, rain, &c.

IWhether this be so or not, the subject is a very curious one.
  think it was a man of the name of Reid who published in the

Philosophical Transactions and elsewhere on atmospherical elec

tricity. Dalton's papers on clouds, rain, &c., of course you know.

   IOne point on which want you to inform me is how far you

intend to introduce into your Report the recent researches on

Ithe relations of heat to vapour and gases; a subject which have

been in the habit of calling Thermotics. Much has been done in

this department of late, but perhaps you will think it too ex

Itensive to make it an appendage to Meteorology, though it has
the closest bearing upon that study.  refer particularly to the

laws of the specific heat of gases, the heat developed by com

pression, the rate of evaporation, &c. The part of Thermotics

Iwhich refers to the expansion Of fluids and solids, to latent heat, &c.,
is more Obviously out of your way.    am glad to hear that Pro

fessor Powell is to give us a report on the subject of the researches
                                             '
on radiant heat.
IIt has been usual in England to place what have called

JThermotics in treatises of Chemistry. Perhaps you can tell me

whether Mr ohnstone; who has undertaken that subject, intends

to treat of these enquiries. They are eminently important be

cause recently so much has been done in them in a very masterly

138 mm H. J. RosE. 1832.

and decisive manner, and much remains to do and may be done

by your countrymen if they will be zealous and will take the

trouble to understand the present state of the science.

   I shall be very glad to hear from you on these matters if
I Iam not giving you too much trouble. ` think there is a hope

Iof something being done in Meteorology, and certainly there is
much to be done.       was at a council of the R. S. the other

day when we were on the point of ceasing to require Meteoro

logical observations, because no one could shew how they could
Ibe made so as to be of any value.
Ialtered.                           hope this will soon be

           think the Hygrometer will be one of the most im

portant agents in the change, but of this we can talk hereafter.

Believe me, dear Sir, yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

I have neither time nor paper to talk of your review of
IMacculloch.
              think in many things you deal with him full

gently; but the strongest point of attack seems to me to be

his want and contempt of the knowledge of organic remains.

The geologists will not allow that they can afford as yet to quit

details for theories.

                                                                                Tam. Com", Feb. 3, 1832.

   MY DEAR ROSE,

       I"For aught see" your friend's sounding board should be
Ias good, or better than if it were parabolic. But recommend

you rather to trust to experiments than to any reasonings of us
theorists; for the doctrine of sound is by no means as yet in such

a state that you can deduce complex conclusions (such as the
audibility of the same speaker in all parts of a large room,) from

simple principles, with any great confidence. One may say,
however, that no good theoretical reason can be given why the

parabola should be better than the sphere, and that there are
some very plausible reasons looking the other _way. But by all
means attribute most weight to the trial.

   I can easily imagine that the spherical segment is much the

cheapest. Observe, moreover, that you need not have the form

                an. R. JONES. 1832.                                 139

circular; it is enough if the surface be spherical, and it would not

be difficult to give instructions for framing one of any other form,
as these, merely for example`:

     One of the most essential points would be that the inside of

the sounding board should be very smooth. Probably if it were

of metal, as tinned iron, the effect would be stronger, but this

Iwould, suppose, make it more expensive; and then it must be

painted, or the preacher would look as if he were roasting in a

Dutch oven. With a spherical board a. little adjustment as to

position and distance would be requisite, but this would be easy

to manage either by trial or by calculation. Some ornament also

might be desired for the edge of the board, and this might be

invented if the form were fixed on.

   If you can get such a magazine as you speak of set a-going it

may be a very good thing, especially if you can drive out of the

heads of laymen the notion that the church consists of the clergy
Ionly, and that they have nothing to do with it.
                                                  have had one

or two letters lately from Jones about the St Simonians. He

took from Cambridge some books about them, and is struck be

beyond measure with their mixture of meaning and extravagance.

IIn the mean time he complains much of his health.
        am glad to hear from your brother that you are to be here

soon. Give my kind regards to Mrs Rose.

                Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                                     Feb. 19, 1832.

MY DEAR JONES,
IYour letter which got this morning made me glad and
Isorry.
         was grieved to hear that you had been worse in health
Ithan supposed. The Roses who are just come here seemed to

consider you as by no means a sick man, though Mrs Rose did

Itell me of your weight, which did not much surprise me. But
   rejoice that you have set seriously to work to make yourself

Iwell, for have long had a very strong conviction that you were

leading a life by no means wholesome, and that it was far more

         1 The letter contained three sketches of sounding boards.

     I

140     REV. R. JONES. 1832.

necessary than you seemed to be aware to exercise a great

deal of self-denial: a very disagreeable prescription no doubt,

Iespecially when it has to be taken habitually, but the condition
of well-being and well-doing in most things.  hope you do not

expect that you can make yourself well in three months, and

Ithen take what libations you like, because imagine such an

expectation could only lead you to disappointment and discomfort:

Ibut if you will consider self-denial and bodily exercise as para

mount obligations for a long time to come, do not see why

you should not have an old age as prolonged and as healthful as

I Ithat of Cornaro. This will in the long run be all the better for

the book, though confess want much to get Volume two

a-going, and do not see why this should not happen immediately,

Iif you have not deceived yourself about your state of preparation

with your MS. As to your polemical quiver, will try to fit

arrows to the string as soon as you send me them. And when

you have time you shall write your fill about the economical

conditions of political institutions, but. pray do not set off on
Ithis cross road at present.
                              can easily imagine how tempting it

must be, but your self-denial must be exercised with regard

to speculative as well as bodily appetites. This is a doctrine which
Iyou have preached to me of yore, not needlessly, nor hope fruit
Ilessly. When you do set to work with this speculation
                                                        hope
you will not be so heretical as to " start " with any "principle",
however liberal or plausible. If any truth is to be got at, pluck

Iit when it has grown ripe, and do not, like the deductive savages,
cut down the tree to get at it.  could tell you more about
Ithis, but another time will do. But too have been reading

Ithe St Simonian; who is the man that writes the Exposition?

He must be a fine fellow; am entirely charmed with the

beauty and coherence of great part of his theory. It is full of

Ithe most wide and striking notions, admirably combined and with

a marvellous air of truth about many of them. Of course need

say nothing of the gratuitous and nonsensical blasphemy in which

it pleases him from time to time to talk of the man St Simon;

but his theory of organic and critical periods is constructed and

followed into its various developments with consummate per

          REV. R. JONES. 1832.                   141

ception of the present state and tendency of men's thoughts and
Ithe cravings of their nature.
                                do not think the doctrine of the

perpetual diminution of antagonism quite so well made out; and

the assumption of a complete difference in kind between the

          I
                 it I

                                                             is,
                                                                        is

                                                                                              a
next organic period and all preceding ones  as appears to me,

quite forced and illogical.  can hardly help imagining that this

theory must have been invented by some German. Lessing began
such a one, but think in modern times some countryman of
his must have run on further in the same line. But then

German would have left merely a speculation. It only for the

practical men of the English and French democratic states to

urge such principles into the field of action, to make the first

glimmerings of Political Economy a ground of legislation, and to
preach a theory of the progress of man as a new religion. But

have really been interested and stirred by these speculations
I
                         I
                                         I
beyond most things that have read. There are, as you say,

several right notions about the character of science, one in which

they have hit on the same word which have used for nearly

the same thing--the conceptions which must exist in the mind
in order to get by induction a law from a collection of facts; and

the impossibility of inducting or even of collecting without this.

However, do not think they have done anything to diminish
II

    I

             is

         I
              I

                                              is

                            I
                              III

                                                       it

                                                   I
                                                           I
the necessity of developing and verifying this notion, and am

very sure that when this done we shall have a much clearer view
of the nature of general truth and the way of getting at it--in
eluding political and perhaps something of moral truth. But

dare hardly turn my thoughts a moment towards these regions

at present, for can barely get on from day to day with other

matters.

saw Herschel at the Geological anniversary on Friday and

learnt from him that he was going to visit you.  should like

.much to come to Brasted that might see how you take to
abstinence and exercise, but think will be impossible till the

term over, even for a day, and have no chance of seeing you,

except you will come to London for half a day, in which case

will manage to meet you.        think exactly as you do about

Babbage's book. He told me also of his project of publishing a

142 REV. R. JONES. 1832.

Ibook "like Herschel's," at which could not quite suppress an

internal smile. But still there is a great deal of ingenuity in his
speculations, and the one you mention about skilled labour

  think, the brightest of them. Moreover the book of a, kind
which will receive its full meed of praise in these days. Give
my kind remembrances to Mrs Jones, who hope looks with
approbation and comfort on your system of self-tormenting.

                                    Adieu. Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.
I
                                           I

                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                    is,

                                   TRINITY COLLEGE, July 1832.
I
MY DEAR ONES,
    IJ

                         II
                                            II

                                                                                                                                     1,

                                                                                                  is
   have been on the point of writing to you several times,

and should have done so but that could not make out any good

prospect of coming your way soon.  am now got back here after

a giro to Oxford and other places, and my present intention to

sit still and mind my book, as boys are told to do, for do not

know when shall have such another opportunity.         am very

sorry that you are ill and out of sorts, and cannot imagine why

the rheumatism should be so insufficient for your annoyance that

you must call in the pictures of coming evils to complete your
discomfort. For my own part see nothing for me to do with
                              I

regard to public matters, and therefore  I  leave them to take

their course, hoping the best. "The last dread curse of angry

heaven, The gift the coming ill to know,"   I  leave to you, or

rather would leave to those to whom wished ill, for when
I              is I                I
                                     it I
                          it
we cannot act do`not see the good of even supposing the

knowledge unerring. The only moral can extract from such

anticipations  the importance of getting our speculations into

such a form that no calamity or adversity shall have the power,

by putting an end to us or to the command of our faculties, to

destroy the chance of our beautiful theories coming before the

world, in our time or afterwards. As for smaller matters find
               I
                                                                   is
                                                     II
my interest in them decay quite as much as desirable.                wish

you would follow my example, and why cannot you? You

know as well as do that those who theorise rightly are in the

end the lords of the earth.

                REv. R. JONEs. 1832.                       143

Our meeting at Oxford seemed to all of us that were there

to go off as well as was possible. Every body of note was there.

Even Babbage, Brown and Fitton took an active share in the
proceedings. A deal of work was done of which you will see

nothing in the newspapers; and the show proceedings went off

very well indeed. What more would or- could you have? We

meet at Cambridge next year, and shall have to make our arrange

Iments a little more orderly in the mean time, but think we

shall prosper.
I Ihoped might have heard from you something to print by
Ithis time.
                am here now for a month, probably longer, and
Ishall be a beautiful critic.
                                wish you would try me ; and do not
Iwait till become blue-devilled with hard work, which perhaps
If I Imay happen in a few weeks.
                                it do shall migrate, but do

not know whither.
                               s s a ae

                Adieu. Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

JMY DEAR mm,                    Courmcrs, Aug. 23, 1832.

I IFor fear should forget anything which may learn
I Ithat is in your way, will put down what
                                                have collected

hitherto, though my information appears to be mighty scanty.
IIndeed, when
                begin to interrogate about such matters, -I am

oppressed by the consciousness of my own ignorance, which

prevents ' my understanding or recollecting the details which

would be most decisive. At Caen my principal acquaintance was

Ia M. Le PrévOt, a man of very considerable station and of great
intelligence.   could not induce him to give me or direct me

to any estimate on the subject of your problem as to the

time in which the number of proprietors is doubled by the law of

equal partition; but he told me that many estimates which had

been given     on this subject  were to be      received   with caution,
being made     by persons who   are hostile to  this law.
                                                            It does not

operate, he says, in any great degree to break up the large pro

perties, inasmuch as the possessors of these have very seldom

144 REV. R. JONES. 1832.

more than two or three children, but among the small proprietors

the subdivision goes on. In the meantime the people get more

and more into the way of having comforts beyond mere neces

saries. They eat meat, and as another instance they have all

got umbrellas. The small proprietors have almost all a trade

Ibesides their property to depend on. This found confirmed at

other places. The man who opened the door of the church of

Haute Allemagne for me told me that he had a property of about

200 francs, but was besides by trade a carpenter. He grew corn

for himself and his workmen on his ground, but bought his cider

from Basse Allemagne, a neighbouring village, where apples grow

Ibetter. The people are much attached to their property, and,

as understood, seldom sell it. This is an open country covered

with corn in small strips; and when a plot is to be divided among

heirs, this is done by means of certain marks (devises), with small

trouble and no inevitable legal expenses. There exists a. very

great jealousy on the part of the small proprietors towards the

Ilarge ones, and the only chance the latter have is by making

common cause with the former. saw something of the expression

of this attachment to property at a place a little way out of the
Iroad from Coutances to Bayeux, when Rickman and
                                                  were

attracted by the grand appearance of a fine open tower of Early

English work, with tall lancet-windows supported on bundles of

shafts and the light of the sky shining through. While we were

drawing, the population of the commune all turned out into the

streets and got more and more troubled (you are to observe it is

a mile or two off the road), and at last one of the National Guard

put on his uniform and came and told us to follow him to the

maire. Wishing to see what would come of this we made no

resistance, and were taken to a dirty farm-house, where the

servants were eating a dinner of herb--potage, bread and cider,

in a room of which the main furniture was a large bed. The

maire was gone to Caen, and the adjoint was not to be found;
so after being kept prisoners for an hour and a half we were

marched to Bretteville where our carriage was, under the guard

of our first friend the sergeant-major of the National Guard,

who seemed especially indignant at our intrusion, two other

          REV. R. JONES. 183.2.                                                                      145

fellows with white belts and sabres, and two others with fowling

Ipieces. On the way talked with our convoy, and they declared

that if a man had but a single sillon, he would keep
it                                                                                                   and

                                                                                                it,
that would be found that all attempts to change such a state

of things would be fruitless. You will easily suppose that their
patriotism was somewhat excited by the laudable service in

which they supposed themselves to be engaged. When we got

to Bretteville, the moire of that place dismissed us, observing to

our guard how important  was that nothing should occur to
I

                               a

                                it
                                          it

                                   I

                                                    if

                                                                                          is

                                                           I
interrupt the good understanding of England and France; but
  think he would have some trouble in pacifying our sergeant

major. The country through which we have passed to-day

(south-west from Bayeux) has been quite different, being divided

by hedges as clearly as your Kent, and covered with apple-trees,
so that from hill looks like a forest. It
                                           described as

" agricole; propriétés tres-divisées; systeme de fermes ou le fermier

fournit ses instrumens," &c. When have inquired once or twice

how the division would be executed one of these small fields

were to be divided, the people all seem to think some of the

inheritors would sell to the others. In some places also was

told of the small proprietors letting their land to large farmers.

But here my host speaks of the small proprietors, who have no

cattle, being assisted by their richer neighbours in ploughing

"gratis," and then in return they help to reap their neighbour's

harvest.  think the cottages here are not ill furnished. They
          I

                                                                                                           is
have in general a large armoire and a clock. The former

a piece of furniture of some splendour. A house (farm and

hedge cider house) at which we were to--day contained in the
sitting-room two of these armoires (besides a sideboard, or table
and cupboard, and an enormously high bed). They were of oak,
carved with some taste,---one of them almost new, which our

hostess told us cost 300 francs few years ago, of very good
                         aa

                                         I

                                                                        j
workmanship--the other, about thirty years old, was her mother's.
The one which she opened was quite full of cloth and linen

furniture. We met this afternoon great number, should think

200, carts, coming from the sea-shore laden with sea-sand for

manure. Some of them must have had to go and return thirty

w. II.                                                10

146 REV. n. WILKINSON. 1832.

miles on a hilly road with a very heavy load. Team generally

a horse, then oxen, and another horse, all in one line; very good

I Icarts made expressly for the purpose.
        will send off this letter for fear
it                                                                                                    though

                                                I
                                                   I it,
                                                                       should lose

will do you little good. We have got on well in the matter

of architecture, having seen much and speculated wisely.                                              shall

be in England again in the first week of September.                                 hope you

and Mrs Jones are well. My best regards,

                       Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

Bnnux, Aug. 25, 1832.

                       TRIN. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Oct.
I                                                                                                     1832.
       I
MY DEAR WILKINSON,
              I

                                         a

                          II
                                                                                                  2,
Since received your last letter, have been for the

greater part of the time in France, where went with Rickman
the architect to look at the churches which they have got in that

country.
     We travelled over great part of Picardy and Normandy

with great satisfaction, and, think, with some profit so far as
our knowledge of their architecture was concerned. We have

classified to our own content the styles of church-building which
we found there, and think Rickman will probably illuminate
the world upon the subject as soon as he can find time to put
his notions upon paper. The most remarkable circumstance
which happened to us, besides seeing on the average five churches

a day for a month, was that at certain village called N orrey,

between Caen and Bayeux, we excited so much alarm by looking
and making memoranda that the National Guard of the place
put on their uniform, turned out and took us prisoners.

     \Ve were marched across the country under a guard of three

sabres and two fowling pieces to the next magistrate, who luckily
turned out to be a reasonable man. When Rickman produced his
printed card, he observed very sagaciously, that Monsieur " n'aurait
jamais improvisé un timbre comme celui-la," and moreover, that

was very important to preserve good understanding between
it

                                                                    a

France and England, and so dismissed us, much to the discontent

_-___ .7 `.w__..__,._ "a. Jpn-.231." .r'

               REV. H. WILKINSON. 1832.                                147

of the National Guard of Norrey. In other respects we got on

extremely well, and found some very intelligent architectural

Iantiquarians at Rouen and Caen. On my return went to

Herschel, whoit          among other employments, grinding specula

to take with him to the Cape of Good Hope, where heis, is,
                                                           I
                                                                I is
going next year to observe the Austral nebulae and double stars.
He has a charming wife with two nice little girls, who dare
say will turn out as intelligent as your eldest daughter, who

Ifhope has not forgotten me.
             recollect, you were somewhat disturbed at the thought
I it,
     IIof my having written a book with the view of superseding the

reading of Newton's text.      do not think that, you were to see
                         iIf                    if
                            I
                                                                  it,
   you would apprehend much mischief of that kind from and

   would send you           thought were worth the carriage so
                                          a it
far. believe those who do not read the text of Newton, having

this book, would not have done so bit the more, they had
                                                if
                                                                 it

not. The fact            as think was even in our time, that no
                         I

person's do read the text except men of mathematical heads,
and lovers of original books, and those will do so still. The rest

have been in the habit of having recourse to manuscripts gene

rally illogically constructed, and substituting sorriething else for

Newton's reasoning (which      have not done), and in this way
"Newton" has been " subject " which interfered mightily withI
               I                I
                     a
any consistent study of Dynamics and Physical Astronomy.

However, whether have done any good or no remains to be

seen, for the book was only published just before the long

vacation, and has not yet taken its place in our reading.  I           am

on the point (in week) of publishing another Mechanics, whicha
    to be an easy book explaining the matter about as fully as
I is

        is
  know how, and containing as much mathematics as Wood does.

It an employment at which sometimes grumble, to have

to write so many elementary books,--a very difficult and ungrateful

office; but when you have to lecture and instruct about these

things, you have the defects (or what appear such) of existing
books so strongly and repeatedly forced upon you that
                                                I                      is

                                                    it
diflicult to abstain from trying to remedy them. However, hope

I  have almost done with this kind of work. Gwatkin has left

                                                10--2

148 REv. R. JONEs. 1832.

ICambridge, as presume you know. The Trinity men of our

Jtime still stick to the college in a wonderful manner, but your
  ohnians begin to grow out of my knowledge with a few excep

tions.                __

        Dear Wilkinson, yours always, W. WHEWEIL.

                                      Dec. 2, 1832.

MY DEAR JONEs,

      I have been in London and have heard that the business
Iof your Professorship is not yet settled`, so am less surprised
Iat not having heard from you. am vexed at this procrastination,

Ibecause it wastes your time, and will, suppose, more or less annoy

and occupy you. So far as your prospects of being Professor in
I Ithe end are concerned, suppose they are good.
                                                  had to call
Ion the Bishop of London, and asked him if the office was filled
up. He told me there was a difference of opinion whether it

Ishould be continued, but that he wished it to go on, because you
were to be the Professor.  thought him extremely sensible,

and was very glad to find he had got such a notion: but the
Idelay is wearisome and troublesome.
                                      calculate you are writing

or thinking the finest course of lectures that ever was delivered,

Ibut wish they had not half uncorked the bottle so long before

hand.

   IHow goes on your state of physical suffering? lament much
Ithat there should be such need to dose you, but hope to find
Iyou all the better for it when next see you--not a greater but

a happier man. Is there any chance of our meeting soon, and
Iwill you come here?
                           want to see you about my own book,
I I Ithough am afraid shall not get you to mind it much.
                                                          have

now put above half of it into, or nearly into, its final shape, and

Ithink have given it a coherence and obviousness of object to

which it had no pretensions when you saw it; being then only

in fact an attempt to get the arguments into words--an attempt

which in several instances only served to show that they must

     1 This refers to the Professorship of Political Economy in King's College
London, to which Mr Jones was appointed shortly after the date of this letter.

We. 7. ____, _ .._..-.,_,.. 3","!wm Ma`aflt a." --M._. _ . -~ -. .

            PROF. A. SEDGWICK. 1832.                           149

Ibe quite recast.           am coming now to the speculations about the
Ieffect of the study of science upon the mind; where
                                                               think
I have a good point or two, but hard to get into unexceptionable
If Ishape.
            can succeed reasonably well in making my two or
Ithree views clear, shall hasten to the end without more delay,

Iand then go to press immediately. We have all engaged to

publish between March 1 and July 1, and feel a wish at present

to be among the earlier ones. You will have heard that we have

an election for the University coming, and by the time you

Ireceive this you will hear that Peel has retired`. think this

must puzzle the Tories hugely, for they had got up a strong
declaration here in favour of the sitting members, and will now

have to look out for a new man, with adverse skies, and the
Irecollection of the difficulty they had in finding the last.
                                                               shall

Ivote for Lubbock, as my own pupil and particular friend and

as the mathematician of London. But meddle not with Whig

or Tory. Do' you intend to come and see the humours of this

election ?

   I wait to hear how your stomach and veins bear treatment

so different from what they have been accustomed to. Write
If Ior come.
            you have been'kept so low as you say,              shall

venture to dispute with you on your strongest points. Kind re

membrance to Mrs Jones.

                            Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                            TRINITY 001.15., Dec. 23, 1832.

MY DEAR SEDGWICK,

           When you had scribbled down the last sentence of your
sermon after the bell had stopt, and had succeeded by a sort of
miracle in reading your pothooks without spectacles, omitting,
however, half the sentences, and a quarter of the syllables of those

Iwhich remained, dare say you thought you had done marvel

lously well, and had completed, or more properly had ended, your

Itask. In this, however, you were mistaken, as hope soon to

     1 William Yates Peel.  The persons elected were Henry Goulbum and. Charles
Manners Sutton.

150 PROF. A. SEDGWICK. 1832.

make you acknowledge. The rising generation, who cannot err,

inasmuch as they will discourse most wise and true sentences                                                      ,

Iwhen you and are laid in the alluvial soil, declare that their

intellectual culture requires that you should print and publish
Iyour sermon.
                     'will give you a list on the other side of the

Inames of the persons who have joined in expressing this wish`.
   undertook very willingly to communicate this their desire to

Iyour reverence, inasmuch as thought your sermon full of notions,

as the Americans speak, which it will be very useful and beneficial

to put in their heads; or rather to call them out, for a great num

ber of those good thoughts are already ensconced in the excellent

noddles of' our youngsters, like flies in a book-case in winter, and

require only the sunshine of your seniorial countenance to call
Ithem into life and volatility.
                                 do not know anything which will

more tend to fix in their minds all the good they get here, than to

have such feelings as you expressed, at the same time the gravest

and the most animating which belong to our position, stamped,
upon a solemn and official occasion, as the common property of

Ithem and us. And also think it of consequence that, when they

on their side proffer their sympathy in such reflexions, we, on

                     is,

                                 I
                                                  is I

                                                                                it

                                                                                                          is
ours, that in the present case, your dignified self, should not be
backward in meeting them, by giving to all parties the means of

returning to and dwelling upon these reflexions. Such                                                         my

thinking about this matter, and therefore have undertaken to

urge their request; and hope you will be able to extract from

some abysmal recess your manuscript, and to place before the
Itastonished eyes of the compositor.
                                                      probable that he will

look, as Dante says the ghosts looked when they peered at him,

like an old cobbler threading his needle,--but never mind that.

The fronts of compositors were made to be corrugated by good
sentences written in most vile hands so let him fulfil his destiny
without loss of time.
                                I
                                   I

                                                   ;
send this to Askrigg, where suppose by this time you are
I
`Iestablished in Lodge Castle.   should be very glad to be with
                  1
you, but at present  have got some fish to fry.'      I                         also am

bound to the press, and hope to be tormenting the men of ink

                     The letter contains list of names, in number twenty-five.
                     a

                   REV. R. JONES. 1832.                 151

with my Bridgewater hieroglyphics before the new year is many
Idays old.
            have also one or two visits to make: and among the
I Irest think shall go to Hastings and see Lady Malcolm, from
Iwhom have had another very amusing letter. She would fain
Isee you there too, but must explain to her how impossible

that is.

   I am blown in pieces in all directions with a vile cold, which

Iproduces explosions worse than anything which General Haxo

could contrive. However, still hold out, and make a sortie now

and then.

                   asss

                        Adieu. Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

JMY DEAR ONES,                        Tam. Com", Dec. 27, 1832.

IThirlwall says he can be with you on the 9th, so will
Icome to you on that day also.
                                      suppose we shall not come
Itogether, for leave Cambridge to-morrow, and he stays here a
Ifew days longer.
                   am going to London for a couple of days, and

Ishall then come back to Lord Braybrooke's, and to Cambridge
again in about a week.  do not know what Thirlwall's limits
I Imay be. For my own part do not think can undertake to
I Istay more than three days with you. But when see you will

expound to you my visiting projects.     -

I hope to find you quite got over your indignation about the

King's College business and ready to set to work, or rather for

ward in completing what that absurdity interrupted. If you are
Iresolved to maintain your first volume to be a failure, will not
Ifight against you now: but at the same time am bound to say,

in virtue of my philosophy, that it is no had success for a book

not deductive like Ricardo's, but inductive, and in its inductions,

as you must allow, far from complete, to obtain so much notice

Ias yours has done: and dare say that half the impression is a

great deal more than the Wealth of Nations or Malthus's Popu

lation or any book of similar novelty and importance sold in the

same time. However we may convince ourselves of the truth

152 srn J. F. W. HERSCHEL. 1833.

and importance of your doctrines, we cannot alter the laws of the

progress of knowledge; and to the common herd of readers, time

and your labour, and that of the persons who understand you,

must be applied before your doctrines can be brought home.
I have always told you you shall have fame enough, if you will
I Iwait a little.
            tell you so still.                    always meant to tell you that
Iyour fame would not come immediately; so am no whit sur

Iprised or disappointed by anything that has happened; indeed,
   should say that your book has succeeded better, rather than

worse, than my anticipations. McCulloch's review gave you or

your friends an opportunity of urging your opinions in a polemical

Iform: that opportunity was lost by your procrastination: think

Ithe loss was an advantage; and shall think so the more if it
urges you on to publish what remains.             still tell you that you
shall have plenty of fame in your life-time if you will work for it;

certainly the mere. consciousness of deserving it will not bring
                                                  if is a it

                                                                             is
                                                                                       it,
and in truth, from all we can see, making one's object not the

best way to get it.     had rather, for my own part, consider the
            I
discovery and promulgation of truth to be sufficient employmentII

and reward in itself.   do not know what the good of knowing

and admiring such people as Herschel, one cannot learn this

from them. But know my fancies about this matter are likely

to appear extravagant to you, as they do to other people.

     You once talked of writing an article for the Philological
Museum. Can't you do now ?---for Thirlwall rather in want
            I                                     a
                                    '1                               is
                                 it
                                                               I
of grist for his mill.  have written paper which think will

amuse you.  will try to get a proof-sheet to bring with me.

                        Adieu. Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

                                                  Bms'rnn, Jan. 14, 1833.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

               did not answer your last letter immediately, thinking
that what had to tell was hardly of consequence enough;

but Jones informs me that he going to send a missive to you
under the shelter of which this may travel. In the experiments
with Mr Malthus's eyes used the prism with refracting edge
I
    I
                  I

                                              is

SIR J. F. w. HERsOHEL. 1833.                              153

Idownwardsfso that the upper image was the green one, as think

you conjectured`. It was quite clear to me in the experiment

with the chromate of potass that the idiopt perceived scarcely
Iany, if any, steady distinction between the two images.
                                                          would

however have gone again to Haileybury, having provided myself

with a fluid prism, but the Malthi have left it for the vacation.
     You will be very glad to hear that the people at King's

College have at last ascertained their own minds and appointed
Jones their Professor of Political Economy. This will be an

excellent thing both for them and him with common good fortune.
They will have the credit of first exhibiting this science in its

right form with its noble views and really good lessons, and he
will work more and be more known than has been the case

hitherto. He is now writing an Introductory Lecture and a

Syllabus which are to be published before long.

   I am going to do something about tides; Pray think for a

moment on the propagation of a tide-wave as a hydrodynamical

question, the undulation travelling along a channel of variable

section, and tell me whether you think that the solution on the

commdn suppositions can be accepted even as an approximation

to a real case, such as that of the British Channel.
IGive my best regards to Lady Herschel.
                                                      wish you would

contrive to let her see Cambridge before you go to the other

hemisphere for change of stars. If you do not like to go- to the

Observatory (which would be inconveniently distant no doubt),

you can tarry at some of our inns at the worst of times. If you

will come in vacation time, as for instance at Easter, we can

house you in College, as we did Mr and Mrs Murchison. Airy
Ihas had a little girl.
                         want him to call her Urania to correspond

to the boy who is the Georgium Sidus. Many happy new years

to you and yours in this or the other hemisphere.

                         Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

' 1 Mr Malthus was unable to perceive colours properly. The colours in the
rainbow and in the prism always appeared to him to divide themselves into two

mainly distinguishable halos, blue and yellow. Red heat he called yellow.

154 REV. R. JONES. 1833.

                                                   Tam. Com, Jan. 30, 1833.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

        I think you have got our Transactions up to the present
I Ipart which we have just published, so send you that.
                                                                                                           send

you too an article1 which is by and bye to appear in a Journal

published here, where you will see that your Leucocyclite is

Icriticised, perhaps too unceremoniously, but am not afraid of

your taking ofi'ence at what is said. You will have heard from

Jones that he is preparing his introductory lecture for the 27th.

If he gets an audience of 'any extent and intelligence, then

I conceive that his popularity for the future is out of the reach
Iof doubt; but have a notion that the fate of all such under

takings in London is a matter of entire accident and incalculable
Icapric'e, so will not indulge in any anticipations.
I rejoice to hear that Lady Herschel has presented you with
Ia young experimental philosopher.
                                                   will hold you any wager

\                                              he will learn more than you in the next

                                          is,
  that, young as he

'

  twelve months.

                                                   Yours ever, \V. WHEWELL.

                                                   THIN. Conn, Feb. 1833.

                                                           as
MY DEAR JONES,                                 s   a
                            s
                                                     I is
           Another of the inclosed papers                    I
the Dublin Astronomer, about which
                                                                                                       2,
                                                   a sonnet by Hamilton,

                                                   want your advice. It

takes my fancy extremely, and from the time when he first

shewed  me           has never been published), thought that
I

              it
                            (it

                        I it
should like to print at the beginning of my Bridgewater

book, either on the reverse of the title-page, or at the end of the

preface. In doing so,                          should say in the preface that the

statements in one of my chapters concerning the tendency of

mathematics to lead men's minds from religious views must be

held to apply to some cases only, as was clear by such an example

as the author of these lines, one of the first analysts of the age.

        The paper 011 the Use Definitiom; see Vol. 1. page 65.
        1

                                               of

REV. R. JONES. 1833.                              155

This would be no more than justice, for he is a superb analyst
and a noble fellow. Tell me whether you think this would produce
a good or bad efl'ect ; whether it would be looked upon generally
as exaggerated, affected, or the like; or whether it would be a
graceful and reasonable thing to do, supposing it done in good

Iearnest. And tell me this soon, for must write to him about
Iit if do publish the lines`.

                          a at: a s

                                                        Yours always, W. W.

                                       Feb. 11, 1833.

MY DEAR JONES,

    I certainly am somewhat amused at seeing you so soon

relapsing into the human frailty of definitions, after having just

finished a most eloquent and convincing sermon against them;

Ibut am also somewhat alarmed at seeing you in so dangerous

a path. It appears to me a striking and edifying lesson on the

dangers of looking with scorn at other people and thinking of

oneself as exempt from the weaknesses and necessities of human
Inature. However, as you are overtaken in this way, will give
I Iyou such help as can.
                          certainly should not have supposed

that you could need a formal definition, exprest in studied terms,
Ifnot afterwards to be modified.
                                  you use "wealth," or any

other term of which the signification is too lax or too wide in

common language to convey your meaning properly, by all means

give a description of what you intend it to include, and refer to

and recall this description by such artifices of language as you

best can when you want it. But as for your laying your hands

upon an English word and conspiring with another man to make

Iit mean some part only or modification of its usual meaning--
if you do this, as an Englishman protest against  and will
1

     I
                                I

                                                         it
                                                                  if
                                                                                   it,

                                                                                 if

                                                                                                                                                                         '
do what can to raise a hue and cry against you you make

the attempt. A proper business indeed  would have been

you had written to Malthusl He daresay would have given

       This sonnet has not been identified by the representatives of Sir W. R. Hamilton,
who have kindly searched among his papers for it.

156 REV. R. JONES. 1833.

in to your folly, and at this very time you would have been

arguing the matter with him and fancying yourselves most
Iusefully employed.
                     will tell you however what Malthus ought
to have answered to your solicitation. " My dear Professor Jones,
I do not know what are the doctrines which your lectures are

to assert and explain. Language, my excellent young friend, is a

Ivery good thing when it is used for the purpose of asserting

truth; recommend you to employ such words and in such a

Isense, that your propositions shall be true, and, if you are so

fortunate, shall be important and general truths. But cannot

at all conjecture whether your circumscribiug the meaning of

I Ithe word wealth in the way you propose will help you in doing

this; should suppose that you, having, presume, some notion

what your doctrines are, can tell whether the wealth to which

they apply is in all cases such as your phrases point out;--if so,

you may either use the word or the phrases wherever there is

occasion for one or the other;--but if it seems to you a matter

of importance to avoid using the phrases by previously giving
a formal definition of the word, this circumstance would make

me suspect that you have somewhat wavered in your notion

Iduring the progress of your reasoning. As for my own part,
   cannot possibly agree to your proposal that we should endeavour

Ito give circulation to your proposed definition: for do not

know what my next speculations may be, and it is very possible

that they may relate to something for which wealth is the best

Iword, but to which your definition does not apply. At any

rate, will not put myself in the way of having any verbal

Idisputes if this should be so; and for the same reason should

wish to use the privilege of greater age and experience and to
recommend you to keep out of all such rash engagements." After

receiving this long lecture from your economical pastor and

Imaster, you would, suppose, strike out all the formalities of

your definition and content yourself with saying, that when

wealth is spoken of in the following reasonings it is not intended
Ito include any but material possessions, &c. &c.
                                                   have another

special objection to all your definitions whether conveyed by
Imeans of one part of speech or another.
                                          cannot see that they

                REV. R. JONES. 1833.                       157

Icome to anything more than this--" By wealth mean property:"
Iand if you mean property, cannot see why you should not say
Ifproperty.
                property requires any explanation, certainly every

possible mood, tense and participle of the verb appropriate requires
Ifit quite as much.
                     property is not a`satisfactory word in the

case where you use wealth, then your definition does not include

all that your notion does, and will get you into scrapes and

deserved ones.
I Ii All this believe to be sound inductive logic, and so
                                                           send

it you with my blessing.
I was going to write to you independently of this case of
Iconscience of yours.
                          shall go to London on Thursday, and

attend the Geological anniversary on Friday. Can you come

I Ithen? Though you will not have finished, we can talk, and
want to show you my dedication.  shall write to Mould's

for a bed for two nights. At any rate, let me find a letter at

the Athenaeum.       Adieu. Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

   I am glad Mrs Jones is better. Give my remembrances to
Iher, and tell her that have no fear of her making my sermon

into wealth, that is something which is appropriated.

                                                              ATHENEUM, Thursday, Feb. 14, 1833.

   MY DEAR JONES,

       I will stay in town on Saturday, so come here on

Friday and we will still have our talk. Notwithstanding all your

Ivirgin tremors have no fears for you, and no doubt that you

and your public will have a pleasant honeymoon of it. The rule
of prudence here, as in other cases, is to think well and kindly
of your partner that is to be, but not to invest him with any
supernatural powers or perfections. Any danger which there is
of your not doing yourself justice arises from the chance of

your thinking too highly of your public, or lecturing as if you

did--I mean thinking too highly of their philosophical capacities.

The highest flights of your generalisations, the most magnificent

anticipations of future progress, the things which strike you

158  ARCHDEACON HARE. 1 8 33.

most will not touch them much; some will be stupid and unable
to understand; others prejudiced and unwilling to assent. But

views, which are not too wide to be presented with complete
clearness and illustrated by pointed detail, will be sure to win

you applause. So you `must clip your eagle's wing to prevent
his soaring too high and make a smart flycatcher of him like a

swallow.

   I cannot persuade myself to entertain a moment's apprehension

about the facility and propriety of your delivery. Of course you

will not lecture in the bow-wow style in which you sometimes

preach, and the new position will prevent you falling to the tone

of familiar conversation. And then as for your wanting words,

I suppose that even you never dream of such a preternatural

occurrence. You must allow that you haVe no experience to give

I Iany colour to such fears.                      cannot leave
        am playing truant so long this week that
ICambridge again next week; so hope you will come to-morrow.
I I Iam at Mould's.
     will come and hear your lecture if possibly

can, but am quite willing to make an engagement not to bother
you about it when there is no good to be done.

    In the meantime are you printing--printing your lecture and

syllabus? You ought to be. Why should you not give yourself

a reasonable chance of full success? Your procrastination has

prevented your doing this in every instance hitherto--which is
If Ioften enough.
     you come, hope you will bring your lecture

and syllabus--s0 goodbye for to-day.

                   Yours always, W. VVHEWELL.

                                                                     Tammy COLLEGE, Feb. 17, 1833.

   MY DEAR HARE,

       I should at any rate have been delighted to receive a letter
I Ifrom you, but was more especially so because had long been

nourishing an intention of writing you an epistle, but might easily

have kept it still in the condition of an intention till you returned
to England, if there had been no special cause to determine its

transformation into`an act at one time rather than another. It

          ARCHDEACON HARE. 1833.                                          159

Iwas not that had got much to say to you (ybu recollect perhaps

a person who could not conceive that men ever wrote to one an

other except when they had some definite what to communicate),

Ibut did not like so long an interruption of our intercourse after
I Iit had been so frequent: and, moreover, felt as if had never

acknowledged or responded to all the kind thoughts and words

which there were in your last letter before this; which, considering

the great solace and joy they were to me, would have been by no
Imeans a reasonable proceeding.
                                                                  include in this agreeable recol
Ilection all the surplus beyond what deserved; for you are not to
Isuppose that was so fastidious as not to be pleased that there
Iwas such a surplus. But to talk of other matters.
                                                                  shall finish

my letter to--night, and send it off forthwith as the best chance of
Inot delaying it much longer, for foresee a week full of engage
Iments rising up before me.
                             have to-morrow coming to dine

with me Clot Bey, the Frenchman, who has learned Egyptian and

taught the Egyptians to get over their reverence for the human

Ibody, which they have entertained for five thousand years, sup--

pose, and has induced them to dissect. You will not feel any

Istrong admiration for the man on this account: but have also

another stranger coming whom you would much more probably

like. This is also a Frenchman, named Rio, a friend of all the

Malcolms, who made his acquaintance at Rome and are quite en

- chanted with him--Lady Malcolm especially--and he as might      if is,
                                                                      it
be imagined, enraptured with them, especially Lady Campbell.
He moreover, a philosopher of the school of Bonald, an inti
        is,

          I

                                                     is
                                                               a
mate friend of De Maistre and of Schelling, and a most earnest

Catholic, enthusiastic about painting, music, and languages--now

should you not like to know him? as girls sometimes say to one

another.  But his errand to England appears to me the most
amusing
          have heard of. He                                       Breton--a Celt--he holds that

the Celts are the only sound part of the French population, the

only part which has any religion, or any social vitality. From

the French Celts the regeneration of France must come,                    come

at all. But the French Celts are poor, and have been oppressed,

and have let some of their Celtic spirit and culture slip away from
them. This to be restored by reinfusion of Celtic poetry and
          is
                        is

                                                 a
history. So M. Rio come to cultivate the Welsh, and to see

160 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1833.

what he can find in their literature worthy of being employed to

fill the minds of the Bretons with worthy thoughts and hopes.

Now is not that a pretty project ? Poor Rio has been grievously

disappointed hitherto in his attempts both to find Welshmen and

ICatholics in London; hunted with him a whole morning, but

we could not catch any creature of any value of either description.

Since that time he has detected Digby, and has of course struck

Iup a very close friendship with him. But am very sorry to

learn from him that Digby has been very ill, and is still ill of a

Irheumatic fever--his not unusual visitant. Digby has been pub

lishing a Vol. III. of the Mores Catholici, as beautiful, think, as

ever, and even more remarkable for his assimilating power of

extracting from everything nutriment for his own opinions and
Ifeelings.
            have left myself but little room for any account of our

other friends. Thirlwall's lectures are admirable, and the men

take to them with great earnestness; especially the second and

third year. He has got the third volume of N iebuhr, so you shall

Inot need to be idle when you return. Sedgwick is well and pros
perous; two days ago     heard him talking at the anniversary

dinner of the Geological with his usual eloquence and whim.

He preacht (I hope you are sensible of. the politeness of my spell

ing) our Commemoration Sermon, which, though most unskilfully

written and delivered, had in it so much of good, that the under
graduates begged him to print it; perhaps in half a year longer

                                      is,
                                                is

                                                                         is
he may do so. The Marchesa is well, and as usual, one of the

greatest of one's comforts here: also my Bridgewater Treatise

going to appear in fortnight; and this transition not so violent
      is
as you might think, for the Marchesa has just been criticising mya

Dedication (to Blomfield). Romilly has a cold, and Thorp has aif a
lame leg by fall from a horse; but they will be well long beforeit

you get this, even       travel quicker than yours, which seems to

have been six weeks on the road.

There no use in writing politics: but as came from London
                                      I of
                                             I

                                                                    is
this morning, a man begged me to buy a newspaper                      containing
                                                                       still with
Lord Grey's Bill for the Suppression  Ireland.

My kindest regards to Worsley; am glad he

you.

                         Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                REV. R. JONEs. 1833.                           161

JMY DEAR ONEs,                   Tam. Conn. March 24, 1833.

I IWhy have not written to you? Why, was expecting
Ievery day to receive your lecture all properly finished.
                                                           cannot

imagine what you have been about all this while, seeing that you

I Ihad it ready for the press 8 days after it was delivered. However,
shall look to see it soon.  think my Bridgewater makes a very

pretty-looking book. All the people here say they like it much.

I have not yet talked with any one who has read it through.
I want most to know what impression is made by the part
Icontaining the contrast of induction and deduction.
                                                      hope that
Iwill take hold, and then do not care how soon people forget that

there was a time when they were blind to the difference. Pray
Iset about dispersing your lecture as fast as you can.
                                                        have no

fears at all about your other lectures: they ought not to be so

high-pitched as the first; they ought to be what they will be, a

Iclear exposition of principles, with instructing views of realities

illustrating them. In short cannot conceive any danger or even

serious doubt in your task now.
I Ithink shall go to London on Wednesday and stay for a few
Idays--will you come?
                          am going to get more materials for my

paper on Tides, which is new assuming the form almost of a

Itreatise of respectable size. Also want to talk with you about

getting statistical information, if the British Association is to be

Imade subservient to that, and which think would be well.

   I hope you will succeed in your attempt on the Archbishop.

I do not know on what principles they act in such cases, and
Ican only hope that there may be some rule or habit, which

am not aware of, which may give you a living of reasonable
Ifatness.
           hope at any rate that you will not have the hardship,
Iwhich to your temper do not think would be a slight one, " in

Isuing long to bide."
         write having no time and nothing to say and must end.

My regards to Mrs Jones.

                                 Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

w. II.                                                     11

162 SIR w. R. HAMILTON. 1833.

     [The next two letters were written to Professor W. R. Hamilton
of Dublin, afterwards Sir W. R. Hamilton]

                                                                         CAMBRIDGE, March 18, 1833.

   MY DEAR SIR,

      I hope we shall have the pleasure of seeing you here
Iat the meeting of the British Association in June. shall reckon

I IIupon and shall provide rooms for you in College. shall be
        it,                            I
         ifespecially glad of any occasion which gives me the opportunity ofI

seeing you, and hope,          you and people like you will help us,I1
             II      I                                           is
the Cambridge meeting may turn out as agreeable and instructiveI it if

as found the Oxford one.        is

   do not know where                likely that the following meeting

will be held, nor have had any talk with any person on the

subject. For my own part see many good reasons in favour of

Dublin, Dublin thinks so, far more clearly indeed than saw

them when we were at Oxford.        I  do not know, however, what

to be urged for other places.

        have published two books since saw you, one only within aI

day or two, which wish to send you and will tell my bookselleris
to convey. The last my " Bridgewater Treatise on Astronomy

and Physics in connexionwith Natural Theology." Your sonnet,
which you shewed me, expressed, much better than could express

it,
                                  is

                       II
                                I
the feeling with which tried to write this book; and once

intended to ask your permission to prefix the sonnet to my book,

but my friends persuaded me that ought to tell my story in my

own prose, however much better your verse might be.

     The other book partly historical and partly speculative on
the laws of motion, which much want you to see.

    In the hope of seeing you in summer believe me, my dear Sir,

                               Yours very truly, W. \VHEWELL. `

_ thank you much for your Lecture on Astronomy.
I

MY DEAR SIR,                   TRiN. COLL. CAMBRIDGE, May 17, 1833.

               am extremely glad to hear that we shall have theI
pleasure of seeing you here at the meeting of the British Associa

SIR w. R. HAMILTON. 1833.                      163

I Ition.
reckon upon you after the enquiry which you make, for

am not satisfied with myself that you should have such a question

to ask. Whenever you arrive, you will find a room in College
ready for you, and you will have such " provants " as our college

ways afford as long as you can stay--the longer the better. It

would be hard indeed if you, a professor and a Trinity College

man, to say nothing of other claims, could not be housed in our

Trinity College for a few nights in vacation time.

   I beg leave to offer you my most hearty good wishes and con

gratulations on the change in your position, which left any

uncertainty on the subject of the place of your abode during

Iyour visit here. In truth somewhat share in the disappoint

ment of Prof. and Mrs Airy, that you do not bring Mrs Hamilton

in your hand, that she may see what English Savans are like, and

that we may have the pleasure of forming her acquaintance. But

we shall be very glad to have you by yourself, since better may

not be. We are to see Herschel and his lady, Buckland and

IMurchison bring their wives, Davies Gilbert his daughter, and,

Ibelieve, many others.                                         I
         received and read your sonnets with great pleasure.

think you are to be envied for being able to keep your mind

in such a frame, but then you have aids in the task which all

of us have not.

   I shall be very glad to have a more detailed account of your

optical views laid before our meeting.

.. it- as a at

I directed my London publisher to send you my little book on
Ithe Laws of Motion.
                      have, however, said little on the logic of
IStatics as distinct from Dynamics, for wrote for our " non-reading

men" who have a very limited taste for metaphysics. However,

I think my notions of the distinction are more clear than when
Iwe talked on the subject before, and shall be glad to discuss

it further.

   IIn the hope of seeing you on or before June 24th, remain,

                      Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                        11--2

164 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1833.

                                          Tam. COLL. Ap. 28, 1833.

MY DEAR MURCHISON,

          You have probably seen Sedgwick, as he was to be at

Ithe D. of Sussex's, and is to come here tO-morrow. However, pro

ceeded upon your authority to take possession Of my own copy

I Iof your speech, which wanted much. Sedgwick's ailments,

hope, are quite dissipated by the air of the Hastings sand

and sea.
I am glad of your opinion of my book. After reading the
I Iwhole
           do not fear that you should think have done any

injustice to the mathematical developers. As to the Quarterly

Review of if felt much anxiety about that matter, should
           it,                                    I
                                                     is I
             II
                                                              a
not at all depend on Lockhart's giving to Jones: think he
                                 it I
has rather Brewster in his eye.              itdo not expect a good review
                                            I
                                               I
from Brewster, for though an admirable discoverer he                bad

critic: nor do expect a favourable one, for he hates all talk

about Bacon and Inductive Philosophy, which hold to 'be the

best part of my book. After the impression the book has made

on those whose opinions    II  most care for, do not feel very

much about the Review, except    were by some better hand--

some one likely to take a more commanding view of philosophy

than Brewster can. Sedgwick had for a time a strong propen

sity to review me; but think the time and trouble would

repel him when he came to the job. In many ways he would

do admirably: but we freshmen reviewers are too serious for
it

       iIf
Lockhart:   ever review again,            think  shall know my
                                 I
                                          I

trade better than before.

                            Tarn. COLL, CAMBRIDGE, April 27, 1833.

MY DEAR. FORBES,

           send you herewith notices which are intended as invi
I
    I

                   it

                   I
                         I

                                      if
tations to some Of your Scottish societies to send delegates to

the B. A.  leave  to you to decide whether those to Glasgow

and Inverness are to be sent, as do not know the character and

merit of the institutions.     send you also a few blank copies,

which you can fill up and dispatch, you think that there are

              PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1833.                     165

Iother bodies which it is proper to invite.  find from Phillips

that almost every little town in Yorkshire has its " Philosophical

ISociety," and that it has been thought proper to invite them; so
you need not be very exclusive.    send along with this invita
Itions to some of the persons you mention; such of them as know.
It does not appear to be thought proper that we should officially

invite any persons who have not already given us their names;

but individuals may make such applications and offer such in
Ifducements as they think proper.
                                   you can induce the noblemen

you mention to come, we shall be most happy to see them.
ISir John Sinclair is a member, and has been written to.
                                                            send

you some of our blank circulars.

     When we meet here we can talk about Mechanical books and

Ithe like. It was, believe, from running too hastily over your
Ired cross lines that missed what you said of my last little book.
I Iacknowledge the want of such a book as you describe, but do

not think it could be made Without a considerable sacrifice of
Itime, an article which find it more and more difficult to com
Imand.
              beCome also more fastidious about style and manner,
Iand have moreover still to print (and write) the second part of
Ithe new edition of my Dynamics; so can promise nothing.
I shall be very glad to advise and suggest, if any one else will

Iwork; you for instance, why should not you write or select such
a book?       dare say another person would choose better than
I Ishould.
              directed my Bridgewater book to be sent to you;
Ithere are some parts of which
                                   should like to know your

opinion.
     Pray seal the accompanying letters, and send them to their

destination.

         Believe me, dear Forbes, yours truly, W. WHEWELL.
                        ssss

                 TRINITY Common, CAMBRIDGE, June 10, 1833.

MY DEAR FORBES,

I Ihope this letter will find you still at Paris, as want you
Ito deliver a message there.
                                  am told'that there is a hope of

`166  PROF. J. D. FORBEs. 1833.

I seeing Arago at the meeting of the British Association; 'This
  information comes from Mr Pentland: if it is well founded, pray
   let Arago know that we shall be delighted with his joining the

meeting, and invite him to take up his residence in Trinity Col

lege as long as he can stay with us, and to share such hospitality
Ifas our' College can supply.
                               Mr Pentland comes with Arago,

we will establish him in the neighbourhood of his illustrious

friend. It would on all accounts give me the greatest satisfaction

to see Arago here, and the feeling would be equally strong on the

part of the President, and all the members of the Association.

If you find they are likely to come, or any other eminent Paris

sians, let me know as soon as you can.

   I suppose you are looking about with an eye to anything

which may further the business of our meetings. It would be

I.well, think, to have some good subjects ready, either for dis

cussions or reports, on which some light is likely to be struck

Ifout. the meeting is held at, Edinburgh next year, this will

very materially affect its success, and will therefore interest you.
I do not think there is any subject on which we are so likely to
Ido something, as yours, Meteorology.
                                       should think it likely that

.we may get such cloud maps, as you speak of, drawn for a given

time. Another point which appears to me to require considera
If Ition is the theory of clouds and rain.
                                                   am not mistaken,

Gay Lussac a little while ago countenanced the theory of clouds

being composed of vesicles of water, which appears to me quite
fantastic and incredible. But how are they supported? Again,

what is the immediate cause of the conversion of clouds into

rain? You still speak well of Hutton's theory, but that theory

appears to rest entirely on the doctrine of the solution of water
Iin air, which you, rightly
                             think, reject. Then as to other

questions. Is there any chance of obtaining any information of

the condition of the higher regions of the atmosphere? How

high does the direct current of the common winds extend? Can

any facts be collected to verify or test Herschel's theory of hurri

canes? (p. 132 of his Astronomy just published). Again, will

any analyst solve for us the problem of the pressure of an elastic

fluid in motion, so as to apply to the barometer?

                       SIR J. w. LUBBOOK. 1833.                            167

         Of course there is no lack of such questions, but it would be

    well if you would select a few which may be likely to receive

    Ianswers, either by co-operation or otherwise.

           should be glad if you could procure me the Annaaire of

    1825, which you quote as containing Arago's speculations on

    Iclimate; and indeed should like to have all which contain sci

    Ientific articles  of his.                    .

    I
    am much obliged by what you say of my Treatise and by
    Iyour corrections, which have adopted, if that part of the second
    Iedition is not already printed.
                                        imagine such works are not
    Ifmuch to the taste of the French public at present.
                                                          you hear

             if
                it

                                        if iIt,
    of any intention of translating               should be glad to send

    corrections.

    You will bring all the scientific novelties which are afloat at

    Paris, and we shall be glad to see you here before the meeting

    begins,       suits you, for we shall have preparations to make.

    My best regards to Mrs Somerville you see her.

                                Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                  Tm. am. July 27, .1833.

    MY DEAR LUBBOCK,

             Finding nothing which made my presence in London

    necessary for more than a few hours, came to Cambridge by the
                                        I

    mail last night. found here an answer to my application to Mr
               if
    Yates about the Liverpool tide observations.     send you the
                   it                             I

                    I                                        it

                                                                    a
    paper that you may see how our affair stands. You will find that

    the tide observations which they possess refer to an earlier period

    than any which Dessiou has already calculated, and to period

    when, suppose, there were none made at Brest. As appears
    is

      I
    that the original papers will not be allowed to leave Liverpool,

.'  it worth considering whether        I it      best that Dessiou should
                                              is
    go there,          can be allowed.          suppose the discussion of a

    year's observations would not take him long, and, he could set
                                                  I if
    about soon, he might possibly be at work when go into the
    it

    north, in which case could look at the result of his labours
                       I

    and enable myself to form an opinion about the desirableness

168 sm J. w. LUBBOCK. 1833.

Iof proceeding. Indeed think it is well worth your considering

whether you might not take Mrs Lubbock to Liverpool. It is

quite as good a sight as Birmingham, besides which you might
see the railroad and travel along it to Manchester, and then cross

Iover into Yorkshire by the English Apennine chain.  _
In the mean time shall be very glad if you will look at the

question and consult Dessiou and any one else, so as to further the
Itbusiness as much as possible.
                                 would at any rate be desirable to
Iget things en train before your wandering begins.
                                                           suppose
Ieither you or ought to communicate with Baily and Peacock
Iwhen any decisive step is taken, though think we have their
Iauthority for doing all that have suggested. By way of short

ening Dessiou's absence he might pick out his transits beforehand;

and indeed all the part of the process which would require his

presence at Liverpool would be his transcription of the tide-times,

which, when his skeletons were prepared, would be soon done.

   I believe my geological ramble in company with Sedgwick and

Airy will begin in the middle of next week: but if you write to

I Ime here, will direct your letters to be forwarded in case should

be gone.
I Isend a copy of my address of which wish to beg Lady
ILubbock's acceptance, as well as one for yourself, which
Iwhen was with you. Believe me,                            had not

                          Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

I should wish to have the enclosed paper returned to me when

you have an opportunity.

                                                  TRINITY CoLLn`eE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 31, 1833.

   MY DEAR. LUBBOCK,

      I Isend you two letters which have written; one to

the Managers of the Lyceum and one to Mr Yates. If you

approve of them, pay seal them up and send them off--enclosing

the one to the Managers in the other. You had better probably

get an Admiralty, or some other, frank, so as not to impose any

Icharge of postage. If these fail we must try some other way.
        have been going on with my comparison of your Tides with

SIR J. w. LUBBOCK. 1833.                                    169

I Ithe theory, because really could not help it. The conclusions
Iobtain interest me so much that am quite incapable of waiting
Ifor your new Observations. Moreover can get very good formulae

Ifrom the old observations ; and believe these will agree with the
I Itheory with a little modification, which will explain when see

Imy way more clearly. At any rate shall get formulae which will
I Irepresent your tables very well, and am persuaded that can

calculate tide tables from my formulae, which will agree with
IObservation as well as any extant tables or better.
                                                      should like
Ito do this, and when Dessiou is calculating London tide tables,

should wish to send him my tables of the corrections for parallax

and declination, that he may use them at the same time with

yours (which will give him very little additional trouble) and
Ithus get out a set of tide tables of my own.
Iobjection to this.                            hope you see no

                     have got my formulae and tables for the times,

and am going to see about the heights.

   IAs you appeared to doubt the possibility of obtaining the laws

of the inequalities from the Observations alone, had no hesi
Itation in setting to work to try, and have now not only done
Ithis, but also got nearer the theory than expected to do. My.
Ilucubrations on these subjects have drawn up as a paper which
I Ifwill be of some size, and which intended for the R. S.
                                                            it is
Ilikely to interfere with what you are doing, will look elsewhere,
I Ibut think can make something of the subject, and shall not be
Icontent till have worked out my views. They make me more

desirous than ever to have the Liverpool and Brest Observations

discussed, for it will be infinitely interesting to see whether the

inequalities due to parallax and declination assume the same form

there as at London.
   II know so little about the methods of calculating the orbits of

comets that can hardly assume a right to interpose my judgment
I IIfon the subject of Halley's Comet.
                                        see Stratford will

mention the subject to him, and give him my opinion of the

Isuperior value of your elements so far as am able to form

one: but not having the comparison of the other orbits with

Iobservation before me, cannot judge relatively. Yours in your

first note appears to agree very well upon the whole with the

'170            REV. R. JONES. 1833.

Iobservations. Airy shewed me to-day a diagram, which, un

derstand, is to be inserted in the Nautical Almanac, containing
Iyour orbits, Pontécoulant's and Damoiseau's.
                                               should think this

would answer most purposes, as the comet itself, if it comes at all

near the time and place of its appointment, must decide which is

Ithe best orbit.
        shall look with great interest to your new London observa

I Itions ; the more so, as have now got the laws which expect

them to follow. But the observations of some other place not

discussed are now the subject of my most intense curiosity.

                Believe me, yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                         TRIN. COLL. Oct. 21, 1833.

MY DEAR JONES,

                         a s s as

I I Iwent to London, as told you should, and saw Herschel

and his wife--a great pleasure to me, as it always is; and the

unhappiness of parting with him is almost done away with by

looking at the Views and feelings with which he goes, and the
Itemper in which she accompanies him.
                                         went with them to the

ship in which they are to make the voyage--a very respectable

structure to a landsman's eye, and a very safe-looking "craft" to

I Ia sailor's, as collected from what heard there. The Captain
Italked of leaving Portsmouth about Nov. 1, and have not since

heard of any more recent determination.
   I Should like to see you much if it were at all feasible.
I Isuppose it is not, for am now fairly fastened here, and cannot
Iwell go even to London for the next month or two.
                                                    want to

know something of the prospects of your second volume, and, if

possible, to expedite its progress. My conviction of the importance

of doing this by no means diminishes. There are other matters

Iconcerning myself about which should be glad to talk to you--
Inot, think, from any feeling of indecision; but because in any

Iconsiderable change it is pleasant to speculate on probabilities with

a friend, and there is no one here now with whom can discuss

this matter--I mean my project of resigning the tuition, of which

                      REV. R. JONES. 1833. p 171

I have spoken to you before. My wish to do so grows upon me :

the "business" remains as tiresome as ever--~--I do not say that it

becomes more so: and my Induction "invites my steps" every half
I If Ihour that am left to my own thoughts.
                                              am ever to do any
Igood, must set about it soon (I shall be forty in half a year)--
I shall never be able to give my mind to my tutor-work, though

the work might well employ any body, and is by no means un

grateful, either as to the chance of doing good or of making

I`money. As to the latter point, have made possibly enough to

make me easy for the rest of my College life, and it would take

ten years more to make a fortune, with the chance of losing credit
I Iand money in the mean time.
                                think have now a good oppor

tunity of resigning with credit, and therefore in two or three days,

Iwhen the Master returns into College, shall propose the matter
Ito him, and try to make some arrangement by which may, in a

year or so, unwind myself from my disagreeable web of small fila

ments, and become master of my own motions.

   I have as yet not mentioned this project to any living soul,

except one person whose personal concerns rendered the commu

nication necessary. If you see anything very absurd or insane in

I it,
           I
                   it I
write and say so, for have no disposition to rush on headlong.

But the scheme has grown up in my mind so gradually and

steadily, that think little likely any further consideration will'

alter it.

was much afi`licted to hear of the fortunes of your face, which

have certainly been most disastrous.  hope matters are now in
                                      I
a more comfortable and prosperous condition.
                                           a
                                                           to is

                                                     I

                                                                              is is
Pray propose the following problem to Mrs Jones--Why the

lady of certain great astronomer like hodmadod?     suppose
a

she knows that hodmadods are the snails with green and yellow

striped shells, which are found in gardens. This problem                             of

Cambridge produce, and was propounded during the meeting of

the British Association in June. Adieu. This the first day

of lectures, so thatit          wonderful my being able write a letter
                      is it
to you--however
                            is
                      between 11 and- 12 at night.

                                Yours as always, W. W.

172 REv. R. JONES. 1833.

                                 TmN. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 13, 1833.

MY DEAR JONES,

    IWhy have not had the end of your last letter which you

I Ipromised me? What is come of your winter plans, and where

am to seek you, supposing that am able and willing to do so,

in the Christmas vacation ? Has St Leonards or Weymouth car
Iried the palm with you?
                                 should be glad to hear any news of

Hare and of his new abode which you can give me. Worsley is

just come here and tells wonders of his collection of pictures,

bought during his tour in Italy. All this you must write and dis

cuss to me without any extravagant delay.

I IAs to my project of giving up the tuition, it was an admirable
device, but have perhaps done better still.  have made an

arrangement with Perry and Thirlwall, by which the former is to

take all the bookkeeping, which of itself is more than half the

Iplague of the tuition and necessarily carries with it half the

remainder, and am to remain as head tutor with considerable

Iemoluments, and with easy work compared with what have had.

This is excellent good in itself, but better still in this, that it

makes it a very easy and short affair to give up the tuition
Ialtogether, if find that my remaining official employments are
Iburthensome.
               can slip my cables at very short warning when
I once resolve to make a run.
IThis being so, am meditating the returning forthwith and
Iin earnest to my beloved Induction.
                                          have been employed all

the term hitherto upon a thumping paper on the Tides, which
I Iintend to be a step of some consequence in the theory.
I could explain to you how useful                            wish

                                      philosophy is in showing

me how to set about a matter like t  is,  and how good a subject

this one of the Tides to exemplify it.  it

   If ask about your book, suppose you will tell me about
I                                I

      I
                             is
your face.  am very sorry for their interference on all accounts,

and wish heartin that your face may diminish, and your book

increase.   wish this not on your account only, but becausea
           I
                                                              it
                       a
                                                                    is
clear that, after little while, books of theory will assume very

important sway over men's minds, and        will be bitterly pro

                      REV. R. Jones. 1833.                            173

voking that there should be no sound and philosophical one

published on your subject, when there is one almost written.
IBetween my Tides and my Induction have given myself a
Iholiday of three days to write letters, of which this is one.
                                                                      look

forwards with infinite satisfaction to the prospect of setting about
Ithe book in earnest.
                       have a week or two's work to bestow upon

                                        it
                                            is it,
the history of Astronomy as subsidiary to and then shall try
                                                             it I
my hand at expounding myself. But                   best talking of such
                                                                  is
things when they are done.

Do you know when Herschel sailed        (I          suppose           now a

matter to be spoken of as past), and do you know anything of him
                                                       If you do, pray
for the last week or two of his stay in England     ?

impart your information. Probably Mrs Jones has had some

adicux from Lady Herschel, for find Mrs Airy has.
                            I

                            Ever truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                            Tmsrrr Conn, 0mm, Dec. 10, 1833.

MY DEAR JONES,

        Your letter has delighted me.   was deeply grieved by
                      I
                            I

                                    I
                                             I

                                                                                it,
                                                                                               is
your former one. Not by any cowardice that found in but

by your courage and your manifest conviction that a great effort

of courage was needed. The amendment which you describe

beyond anything which had hoped: pray go on getting well as

fast as you can, and leave poison to rats and arsenic to mineralo
gists. .As to my visiting you, think the best thing you can do

to make your movements independently of any regard to mine.
I is
hardly know how to get away from Cambridge, for, besides allI

other entanglements,   haye begun to write my book, and have
                      II
got about 40 pages in my head, which have been trying in
                                        is I
vain to find time to jot down upon paper: and think shall beis
                                             I
                                                    I
10th to go hence before have done this, which may not be soon,

as bills and pupils are at present likely to take more time than

usual in consequence of the process, which going on, (pleasant
in other respects) of transferring a large share of the trouble to

Perry.    assure you my book assuming a very orderly and
                       I
                                    is
plan-like shape, and what write now expected to stand; so

1 74 AROHDEAOON' HARE. 1 833.

Ithat, if you do not take care, shall get the start of you with my
Inext volume.
                 think a year and a half or two years will help
Ime through a good deal of the part contemplate publishing
Ifirst; however more of this hereafter. When do leave Camb'ridge
I go to London, to Milton, to Audley End, and perhaps else
Iwhere: and when can take a jump to you, it will make little
Idifference whether find you at Worthing or at Brighton. Either

place will do well to enjoy one or two days of Christmas holiday.
I give you a very vague account of my probable motions, but
I I Icannot do more.
                 will write again when know better what
I Iam going to do. My best remembrances to Mrs Jones.
                                                                 hope

the air is as good for her as for you.

                                     Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                 TRINITY COLLEGE, CHRIsrmss DAY, 1833.

MY DEAR HARE,

Your letter came to me very opportunely, on the morning
Iof our Commemoration day, as have no doubt you intended that
Iit should.
             am glad to see that you are, as of yore, an Observer of

times and seasons, for Worsley, who dined with us to-day, tells me

that he received a letter from you this morning, besides your recol

lection of Kate's birthday, which is an occasion too peculiar to be

Idisposed of by any mere process of classification. But as to the

Commemoration day, which must not dismiss so immediately,

I was very glad to have it distinguished by such a mark in ad

dition to others. It was not without its appropriate glories, for

                                        you will allow me to
Sedgwick's Sermon had been published1   it,
                                            (if

                                             I
say so) day or two only previous to     and had drawn a sort of
1
interest to the occasion; the sermon being, as think you know,     a
   a
very beautiful and profound dissertation as he delivered it; as

having been re-thought and re-written since,     it       much more

                                                      is

beautiful and coherent; and along with certain notes which he

                 it,
                    a it

                                 it
has appended to  forms an essay upon philosophy, morals, and

academical education which will delight you to read.      is I   have

directed him to have copy for you at the Athenaeum (he gone

Mr Hare would have preferred publisht; see preacht on page 160.

                         ARCHDEACON HARE. 1 8 3 3.                        175

Ito London), and hope you will receive it safely and soon. It was

well we had such a reserve in the way of sermon, for Peacock, who

    preached for us on the day, had given himself only a day or two

for the writing of his discourse, and the end of it was, that it was

    a sort of political essay on the duty of regulating our views and

feelings in accordance with the new and reformed state of things,

    which, though by no means devoid of cleverness and dignity,

    sounded rather like an article in the Morning Post than a sermon.

    However, we had besides this something better; for Birks, who

    was our declaimer, gave us a dissertation on the thesis, "that

    Ithere is a moral truth which in its own way is as certain as mathe

    matical truth," such as really do not know any other person who

    could have written. The philosOphy was most profound and con

    sistent, and the views of the nature of morality of the pure and

    Ielevated kind, which hope we shall always hear from our best

    men here ; and withal there was a richness and poetry of illustra

    tion, which did away with any unfitness which you might have
    anticipated in such a subject for such an occasion. His images

    often reminded me of Bacon's ;--a bright flash of ornament with

a clear thread of poignant analogy sparkling through             it it.I  think

      Shall ask him to print but at present he busy with his pre
II I                         I it,                   is
                                                        I-
    parations for being, hope, Senior Wrangler, so must not disturb
                         II
    him with such vanities.         perceive am getting to the end of my
                                    a

                                       it

                                        I

                                                 is
    paper, so must tell you before fails me, that think possible
          I                                          I

      may pay you a visit for day in the course of next week.

      intend to go to see Jones, who                 either at Worthing or at

    Brighton, and as have sort of dim notion that all your people
                             a

    on the Southern border are in connected region, hope Shall
                                    a                'I

    be able to win my way to Herstmonceaux.               aI Icannot be absent
                                                                 I
    long, for am very busy with business not pleasant in itself, inas
          it
    much as              book-keeping; but very pleasant in this-point of View,
            is, it II
    that             istrust, my leave-taking of such business.  have trans

    ferred all tutorial money matters to Perry, and have grand projects

    of writing a philosophy, such as shall really give right and
    wholesome turn to men's minds. Indeed they are more than pro

jects; for have written one Book out of them, and collected large
          I
                          I
    materials for others. But will not vapour about this matter any

176 REV. H. J. ROSE. 1834.

Imore till 1 see you.  hope to find that you have not discovered
I Ithe necessity of. being a party man when visit you, if am so
            IOne obligation have to my philosophy
fortunate.                                                                                                                              it, is,Ithat

makes       irksome to me to think of 'such things.                                                                                               will
I it
                 a it

                                     s
                                              s

                                              s if

                                                                                                                            is
bring you book of Milnes's, which, you have not seen will

think, please you.

                                Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                                                                                Jan. 1834.7,

MY DEAR Ross,

II          send you this interesting document` with great pleasure,

that may ask for your congratulations on the occasion of its

being the last of such literary essays which you will receive from

me. The business of keeping other people's accounts and receiving

and paying money for other people has always been a heavy and

wearisome load, and have long had a resolution formed to get rid
                    II
of before many years were gone by.              do not know that my
II                              if
   I it                            it

                                          it I
resolution would have taken the shape has, or have been exe

cuted at this particular time,  had not been for some accidental

circumstances; but feeling now that every stroke of my pen                                                                                        ; is

filing away my chain go on with right good will in my task.

look forwards with much pleasure to the rest of my tutorial em

ployments, when consider that am to have them unembittered by
            I                   I
                aI                 I
that part of the business, for which knew myself to be most unfit,

and which felt to be an abominable annoyance.                                                                                   II  shall now

probably have little time to philosophize for myself, but whether

shall do so to any purpose, time must shew.

         am glad to hear good account of your university"-for such
                    a

on the whole hold yours and Whitley's to be.                                                                                    dare say we
            I

shall be able to learn some things of you.  I                                                                                   wish most heartily

among other novelties, you would some of you discover or write a

system of morals which might take the place of Paley. Sedgwick

'1 1                                                                                                                                you will

                                                                                  it,
tells me he has sent you his sermon; when you read

       An account of some customary payments due by Mr Rose to Trinity College.

       Mr Rose was at this time Professor of Divinity in the University of Durham
and Mr Whitley was Reader in Natural Philosophy and Mathematics.

                SIR w. R. HAMILTON. 1834.                      177

see that he has declared war against both Paley and Locke. This
puts them on a different footing in Cambridge from that on which

they have hitherto been; for though opinions to the same effect

were in very general circulation in the place, they were never,

I think, clothed with any thing like an authoritative expression

before. The task of writing a system of ethics is certainly not

easy, for it must not only be erected on sound principles, but so

framed as to bear an advantageous comparison in its logic and

Iexecution with the best of other systems, for instance, with Paley's
book--which is no easy condition.  am afraid, from what your

Brit. May. says of Wardlaw's Christian Ethics, he has not solved
Ithis problem.
                have, sent a parcel of books for you, addressed
I250 Regent St, but having been a very short time in town had

not an opportunity of ascertaining that they had fallen into good

Ihands and were likely to reach you. . hope Durham continues to

agree with you and you to like it. Pray give my best remem--

Ibrances to Mrs Rose. hope she likes Durham and all the people

there, or, if this be too large a wish, at least a great many of them;
and if there happen to be any people that she likes less than

others, that she contrives to extract amusement out of them: for

it is very praiseworthy to pick good out of evil. We shall be right

glad when you and she come into our latitudes again. Adieu, and

believe me, dear Rose,

                        Affectionately yours, W. WHEWELL.

        [To`Professor Hamilton of Dublin]

                        TRIN. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Mar. 27, 1834.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am glad to hear you have been turning your thoughts to

Mechanics, and have no doubt you will make a hole quite through

Ithem with your long analytical borer, and for aught know bring

up purer waters from greater depths than we have yet known, as

they are wont to do in this country. In the mean time I, who

Ihave been long muddling at the bottom of the well, have persuaded

myself that have got the mud to subside, and have been trying

W. II.                                     12

178 PROF. FARADAY. 1834.

to distinguish how much of the stuff comes from the clear spring

of intellect, and how much is taken up from the base mud of the
Imaterial world.
                  send you my attempt to render to the prin

Iciples of intellectual necessity and empirical reality what belongs

to them----to each its due. If what have written leads you to

Ispeculate about the matter shall be glad, and glad too to hear

I Iof your speculations from you.                                                        >
        send you another little production which
Ilike, by one of our best mathematicians--"indeed  think you will

                                                   think much the

best of our young men, and likely to be a great analyst. The

speculations appear to me very steadily conducted under all the

profusion of ornament in which he indulges.

   IThe Airys have had a series of illnesses, but are now, hope,

nearly well and likely, if one may judge from appearances, to

be more as well as merrier. Sedgwick, you may have heard,

hurt his arm very much by a fall from his horse; he dislocated his

wrist and it was not set again for 19 days. He is now recovering
Ithe use of his hand.
                       hope you have seen his Discourse on the
IStudies of the University.
                             believe he wanted to send it you
Ibut could not find a channel--you will wonder, suppose, that the

Irish Channel did not occur to him.

Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

Will you have the goodness to send my memoir to Lloyd?

      [The next two letters were written to Professor Faraday,
who consulted Dr \Vhewell as to the nomenclature to be used in
the exposition of his researches in Electricity: see Vol. 1. page 99.]

                                         TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, April 25, 1834.

   MY DEAR SIR,

       I was glad on several accounts to receive your letter.
I had the pleasure of being present at the R. S. at the reading
I Iof your paper, in which you introduced some of the terms which

you mention, and was rejoiced to hear them, for saw, or

Ithought saw, that these novelties had been forced upon you

                PROF. FARADAY. 1834.                     179

by the novelty of extent and the new relations of your views.

In cases where such causes operate, new terms inevitably arise,

and it is very fortunate when those, upon whom the introduction

of these devolves, look forwards as carefully as you do to the

general bearing and future prospects of the subject; and it is an

Iadditional advantage when they humour philologists so far as
to avoid gross incongruities of language.     was well satisfied

with most of the terms that you mention; and Shall be glad and

gratified to assist in freeing them from false assumptions and

implications, as well as from philological monstrosities.

   I have considered the two terms you want to substitute for
Ieisode and erode, and upon the whole am disposed to recom

mend instead of them anode and cathode. These words may

signify eastern and western way, just as well as the longer

compounds which you mention, which derive their meaning

Ifrom words implying rising and setting, notions which anode

and cathode imply more simply. But will add that, as your

object appears to me to be to indicate opposition of direction

without assuming any hypothesis which may hereafter turn

out to be false, up and down, which must be arbitrary conse

quences of position on any hypothesis, seem to be free from
Iinconvenience even in their simplest sense.
                                              may mention too

that anodes and cathodos are good genuine Greek words, and not
Ifcompounds coined for the purpose.
                                           however you are not
Isatisfied with these, will propose to you one or two other pairs.

For instance, deriode and sceode (skaiode if you prefer
I                                                        may
     I

              I

                                is

                           I
                            Ia

                                I
                                                                                        it)
                                                                                        it
be used to indicate east and west, agreeably to Greek notions

and usages, though their original meaning would be right and

left: but should say in this case also, that right and left, as

cannot be interpreted to imply  false theory, any more than

east and west, would be blameless for your object. Another pair,

orthode and anthode, which mean direct and opposite way, might

be employed; but allow that in these you come nearer to an

implied theory. Upon the whole  think anode and cathode

much the best.

have already said that liked most of your new words

very well, but there one which should be disposed to except

                                              12--2

180 PROF. FARADAY. 1834.

Ifrom this praise;    mean zetode. My objections are these.

This word being grouped with others of the same termination

might be expected to indicate a modification Of electrode, as
eisode, and exode, or anode and cathode do. Instead of this, it

means a notion altogether heterogeneous to these, and the ode

is here the object of a verb zete, contrary to the analogy of all

the other words. It appears to me that, as what you mean is an

element, all that you want is some word which implies an

 element of a composition, taking a new word, however, in order

that it may be recollected that the decomposition of which you

speak is of a peculiar kind, namely, electrolytical decomposition.

Perhaps the Greek word stecheon (or stoicheion) would answer the

purpose. It has already a place in our scientific language in

the term stoechei'ometry, and has also this analogy in its favour,

that whereas your other words in ode mean ways, this word
stecheon is derived from a word which signifies to go in a row.

The elements or zetodes are two things which go, or seek to go,
Iopposite ways.
                 might add that, if you want a word which has

a reference to your other terms, the reference must be to the

process of decomposition by which these elements are obtained.

You might call your zetode, an electrostecheon, especially if you

had occasion to distinguish these elements obtained by electro

lytical processes from others obtained by chemolytical processes,

that  I I is,

                   is

                  I
                                    I

                                             I

                                                                                             is

                                                      I
           the common analysis effected by the play of affinities.

Elements obtained in the latter way might be called chemo

stecheons in opposition to electrostecheon. But am afraid am

here venturing beyond my commission and out of my depth;

and you must judge whether your stecheons or zetodes, or what

ever they are to be, are likely to require the indication of such
Ifrelations.
              you were to take anode and cathede and adopt

stecheon,  think anastecheon and catastecheon might indicate
Ifthe two stecheons.
                      you stick to zetode, anazetode and cata

zetode would be the proper terms; but perhaps zetanode and

zetocathode would be more analogous to zetode, which a word

that, as have said, do not much like.

     My letter become so long that, will recapitulate: anode,
cathode, zetcmode, zetocathode fulfil your requisitions; anode,

PROF. FARADAY. 1834.                                           18 1

Icathode, anastecheon, catastecheon are what prefer.  With great

interest in your speculations, and best wishes,

Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

_                         Truer COLL. CAMBRIDGE, May 5, 1834.  an
                         you that stechz'on or stecheon is
 MY-DEAR Sm,

     I quite agree with

awkward word both from its length and from the letters of
Iwhich it is composed, and am very desirous that you should
I Ihave a better for your purpose.
                         think can suggest one, but
Iprevious to doing this, would beg you to reconsider the sug
Igestion of anode and cathode which offered before. It is very

obvious that these words are much simpler than those in your

proof sheet, and the advantage of simplicity will be felt very

Istrongly when the words are once firmly established, as by your

paper do not in the least degree doubt that they will be. As

Ito the objection to anode, do not think it is worth hesitating

about. Anodos and cathodos do really mean in Greek a way up

and a way down; and anodos does not mean, and cannot mean,

according to the analogy of the Greek language, no way. It is

true that the prefix an, put before adjectives beginning" with a

vowel, gives a negative signification, but not to substantives,

except through the medium of adjectives. Anarchos means

without government, and hence anarchia, anarchy, means the

absence of government: but anodos does not and cannot mean
the absence of way. And if it did mean this as well as a way
up, it would not cease to mean the latter also; and when intro

duced in company with cathodos, no body who has any tinge of

Greek could fail to perceive the meaning at once. The notion

of anodos meaning no way could only suggest itself to persons

unfamiliar with Greek, and accidentally acquainted with some

English words in which the negative particle is so employed;

and those persons who have taken up this notion must have
overlooked the very different meaning of negatives applied to

substantives and adjectives. Prepositions are so very much the

simplest and most decisive way of expressing opposition, or other

182 PROF. FARADAY. 1834.

relations, that it would require some Very strong arguments to

induce one to adopt any other way of conveying such relations

If Ias you want to indicate.          would propose for the two
         you take anode and cathode,

elements resulting from electrolysis the terms anion and cation,

which are neuter participles signifying that which goes up, and

that which goes down; and for the two together you might use

the term tons, instead of zetodes or stechions. The word is not

Ia substantive in Greek, but it may easily be so taken, and am

persuaded that the brevity and simplicity of the terms you will
thus have will in a fortnight procure their universal acceptation.

The anion is that which goes to the anode, the cation is that

which goes to the cathode. The th in the latter word arises from
the aspirate in hodos (way), and therefore is not to be introduced

in cases where the second term has not an aspirate, as ion has not.

Your passages would then stand thus:
I" We purpose calling that towards the east the model, and
that towards the west the cathodei..........  purpose to dis

tinguish these bodies by calling those anions§ which go to the

anode of the decomposing body, and those passing to the cathode,
Ications". And when
I shall call them ions.  have occasion to speak of these together

1- a'I/d, upwards, 6869, a way; the way which the sun rises.

1 hard, downwards, 6865-, a way; the way which the sun sets.

§ dimiv, that which goes up (neuter participle).

   Ifl Kandy, that which goes down."
        am so fully persuaded that these terms are from their sim

Iplicity preferable to those you have printed, that shall think it

a misfortune to science if you retain the latter. If, however,

Iyou still adhere to derio and scaio, am puzzled to combine

these with ton without so much coalition of vowels as will
Istartle your readers.
                         put at the bottom of the page the ex
Iplanation, if you should persist in this 1.
                                              would only beg you

to recollect that even violent philological anomalies are soon

got over, if they are used to express important laws, as we see

     1 seals, on the right hand, and hence, the east; o'xauis, on the left hand,
and hence, the west. [This note is Dr Whewell's.]

               LADY MURCHISON. 1834. a 183

in the terms endosmose and ewosmose; and therefore there is

little reason for shrinking from objections founded in ignorance

against words which are really agreeable to the best analogies.

The existing notation of Chemistry owes its wide adoption and

long duration to its simplicity.

   I Iam afraid you will think
I Iif make any further objections,
                        am fond of playing the critic
                        otherwise would observe on

your Article 666, that if you are not sure that you will want

If Isuch words as astecht'on, it is throwing away your authority to
propose them.     what have written does not answer your

purpose, pray let me hear from you again, and believe me,

                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

    PS. If, adopting the term ion for stechion, you do want the

Inegative astechion, do not think there will be any difficulty

in devising a suitable word.

                        Umv. CLUB, July 11, 1834.

MY DEAR MRs MURCHISON,

       IThough have been so long without acknowledging your
I Ikind letter, hope it has never occurred to you that was not both
Ivery grateful and very much delighted with it. In fact it made

me moralise in a way, which think you would allow to be very

sagacious and enlightened, concerning the relative value of one's

gentleman and lady friends, and the result of my reflexions was not

Iat all to the advantage of the former; for Sedgwick, on whom de

pended for giving me currency among his Scotch friends, has not

I Igiven me any credentials. In truth, however, believe that if were
Ito grumble at him for this should" do him injustice, inasmuch as

I Ihe has induced you to give me your advice and assistance, which
   value much more than his. should have written sooner for the

purpose of profiting by your kindness, if my plans had not been

Itoo indefinite to dWell upon, but at present they are a little more

clear, and look forward with great pleasure to the prospect of
Iexecuting them.
                  shall make my way to Glasgow early in

August and shall try to find your friend Lady Mary at Bonnington.

184          LADY MURCHISON. 1 834.

I shall then move on to Arran and to various parts of Argyleshire

by land and water, as weather and opportunity may tempt me,

I Iand so to Mull. doubt whether shall extend my tour to Skye,
Iand rather think that shall travel the whole length of the
ICaledonian Canal to Inverness; and from that place shall turn my

face southwards to Edinburgh, taking such of the lochs and hills

Iand other "seeingsworthinesses" (as the Germans call them) as can
Ipick up on the way. You have now such an outline as can give
Iyou of my present intention, and shall be really much gratified
Iby any hints of yours as to what is worth notice.
                                                    shall probably

take a hammer with me, but rather as an excuse for rambling up

and down the rocks than for any other purpose, for my main

object is to enjoy the sight of hills and lakes and coasts and

arms of the sea; without some such feast the summer leaves me

Iquite empty of agreeable recollections, and when sit down in the
Iflats of Cambridge in the autumn have a painful feeling of
Iinanition. So you see am going to bolt your Scotch hills whole,

without all the ceremonies of slicing and cooking which your

husband and Sedgwick bestow upon them in order to make ,them
suit their artificial and vitiated tastes. Mr Lonsdale, who has

promised to convey this to you, informs me that you have joined the
Igeologues.
             hope you fell in with them in time to prevent their
Iturning their fratricidal hammers on one another, which feared

would be the result, if they would not agree about the dovetailing

of the two portions into which they have partitioned the unhappy

principality.
     You will hear that we are in a political ferment here. The

ministry is dissolved, and they are trying to patch it up again so
as to last out the Session, but at present nothing is known. The

report was yesterday that Lord Althorp was to be premier, but he

denied it last night to his friends. Anything which you may be

kind enough to send me have the goodness to send to Friar Street,
I ILancaster, where shall be in the end of this month.
                                                        should

like to know when Sedgwick will be -in the West of Scotland and

where. Does Murchison accompany him there, and do you

do so?

    Pray give my regards to your husband and to Sedgwick, if he.

                REV. R. JONES. 1834.                 185

is at the surface of the earth and near to you.  I hope his hand
has learnt to rejoice in its ancient exercise.
Mrs Murchison,                                   Believe me, dear

          Yours faithfully and obliged, W. WHEWELL.

     [Extract of a letter written to M. Quetelet of Brussels,
                                         Aug. 4, 1834.]

     You will find that the Statistical Section, which sprung up
under your auspices at Cambridge, is grown into a Statistical
Society in London with many of our noblemen and members of
Parliament for its members. Our Committee has had several

Imeetings, but we are still somewhat embarrassed by the extent of

our subject. have no doubt, however, that we shall do something.
The transactions of the last meeting of the Association are just
published; you will probably receive them through some channel,
and you will find a good deal which will interest you. Among other
things you will find an account of the observations of the Aurora
Borealis, made at different places and tabulated in a manner which

seems likely to give a good View of the phenomenon.

   I have heard two or three times from Sir John Herschel. He

is delighted with the country and with his situation at the Cape
of Good Hope, but does not find the climate very favourable for
observing. His mirror became tarnished, and the stars are not
well defined. He says that the Barometer is certainly higher at
the Equator than in high latitudes.

                Fon'r WILLIAM, N. B., Aug 21, I834.

MY DEAR JONES,

      I Iam brought to a standstill by the weather, which am
Iso far from wondering at, that wonder it has not happened
Isooner.
          have been turning to good account the sunshine we

have had, meandering up and down steep glens, and sailing about

grand lakes and bays in the middle of ever-varying lines of moun

Itains, thrown one behind another by every shade of atmospheric     -

grey and blue. want to go to Glencoe, but the weather says "you

186 Rev. R. JONES. 1834.

I Ishan't," so shall give you the benefit of its churlishness.        have

been thinking several times about my philosophy ; travelling often

alone one has many happy moments of such speculation. One

        I
                     I
                                is,I

                                                                   a

                                                   II
conclusion which Ihave come to that letter which wrote to

you about this same philosophy,  think from Lancaster, would

not give you the slightest notion of the general character of the

part of my book which wanted to explain to you; so shall try

again.  shall in the First Book give a history of some of the

principal sciences, marking the epochs when the great steps were
made, the preludes and the sequels of these epochs, the way in

which each was essential to the next, and so on. This will be

'varied narrative and therefore, hope, not dull. After this ex
                  it

                        I
                           I
                                   I

                                                   I

                                                                       it
pect to shew that in all great inductive steps the type of the
process has been the same. And have in the Second Book to

explain what parts this process consists of, What conditions

requires, what faculties calls into play.  expect to shew clearly

that in order to arrive at knowledge or science we must have, be

sides impressions of sense, certain mental bonds of connexion, ideal

relations, combinatory modes of conception, sciential conditions, or

whatever else you can help- me to call them: they are what
              I
                              I
                                        I

                                                                 is

                                                            I
called Ideas in my former letter. Thus space the ideal relation

on which the science of geometry depends; time, cause, likeness,

substance, life, are ideal relations on which other sciences depend.

Now when have shewn distinctly how these ideal relations

are the conditions of physical sciences which have already made

a great acknowledged progress, shall have to try to discover the

nature of the analogy which exists between these sciences and

our knowledge respecting morals, taste, politics, language, and

generally, all hyperphysical knowledge.    suppose my course of

proceeding must be something of this kind. In the physical

sciences my philosophy points out what the ideal relations are on

which the existence of the sciences depends, shews that these.

relations are different from the impressions which they connect,

and that they cannot be resolved into impressions of sense, though

of course they can only exist with impressions. The philosophy

points out also the nature of each of the inductive steps of which

the progress  of  physical science has consisted, under what con

REV. R. JONES. 1834.                                        187

ditions it could be and was made, and especially how it rendered

Ithe next step possible by its influence on current ideas and on

language. Now shall want to do the same thing with regard to

some of the hyperphysical sciences, and thus shall have to give

a criticism of their past history fashioned upon a general type.
IFor instance, in the case of language
                                        shall have to point out

that meaning or sigmficance is the ideal relation on which all

knowledge must rest; that certain axiomatic principles, flowing

from our idea of meaning, govern, and must govern, all our philo
Ilogical speculations.
                        shall have to give a sketch (only a sketch)

Iof the inductive steps hitherto made in the philosophy or history
of languages, and thus to shew where we now are.       shall have

to do the same thing with respect to morals; shewing that the

ideal relation that there are things which we ought to do, is in--

. evitably involved in all our thinking on this subject, and tracing

the fundamental principles which have been assumed in the

principal moral philosophies; and so of the rest. This kind of
Icriticism ought to be interesting.
                                     believe you will fear that
I shall lose myself in so wide an undertaking. But that you may
Inot think me absurdly presumptuous, observe first, that shall

not take all branches of hyperphysical speculation under my

Imanagement, but only those on which have something of my
Iown to say, and newt, that shall be far more bold and dashing

in my judgments in this part of my work than in the history of

the physical sciences: in that, every word is to be founded on close

examination and proved by reference; but in morals and taste,
Isuch a proceeding is neither possible nor necessary.
                                                       must take

advantage of my own philosophy, which, as it points out that all

knowledge comes by induction and that induction is guessing,

Iallows us to publish guesses, acknowledgedly imperfect, as contri

butions to knowledge. In short, shall write reviews of the pro--

gress of morals, taste and the rest, much as any other critic would,

only keeping in view the analogy of the true type of the progress
I Iof science. Now wonder whether have made myself at all
I Iintelligible, and if have, what you think of my scheme.
                                                            will
I Iadd that when have shewn, as hope to do, that the relations of

duty and of the afl'ections are as fundamental a part of man's

188 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1834.

I Ithoughts as the relations of time and space, and direct his will

in the same inevitable manner, think shall have assigned man

a moral and social constitution on firm grounds. rllhe first and

far the most frequent exercise, and apparently the object, of all

the ideal relations which the mind possesses is action; theory is

a secondary use of the faculties. The principles which operate

invisiny in action are detached and exhibited by speculation.

The speculative moral principles, so far as they are the true ones,

are thus the destined guides of our will ; and the principles which
Ithey imply are as substantial as the axioms of geometry.
                                                                 hope

to get thus to a satisfactory point of view respecting moral truth.

IThe same observations apply to taste, art, language, and the
rest.          Are you not asleep?  dare say you are; but

some day, when you are very wakeful, pray read this and make up

your mind what you think about which tell me when you can.
        hope your book goes on. Or your lecture in the way?

If so, get that job off your hands as soon as you can, before the
I

            is
                                                  it,

                                                             is

                                                 I
occasion forgotten. Pray write to me at Edinburgh.               do not

mean about my philosophy but about yourself. My best regards

to Mrs Jones.

                                    Yours always W. W.

                                    DUNKELD, Aug. 31, 1834.

MY DEAR FORBES,

       consider myself as drawing near to Edinburgh, and ex
I
     is I

                 a

                   Ia

                                 if is

                              II I
                                   is I I I
                                              I
                                                 I
pect to be there in few days; but have still a little giro to

make before my tour completed, and shall hardly meet you

before Wednesday or Thursday.       hope that will be early enough

to do you any good can do by being with you before the general

gathering of the philosophers. When arrive shall enquire for

you at the College; so you will leave directions for me there

will regulate myself accordingly.   should have finished my

ramble day or two sooner, but was misled by the error of the

maps to expect a road where no road to be found.    think that

this a case to bring before the geographical section; but we will

see about that when we meet.        wish also that your meteoro

               SIR e. B. AIRY. 1834.                   189

Ilogical committee could have arranged it so that should not be
Iwet through more than twice a day upon the average, but am

now become accustomed to the existing state of things, which gives

Ia higher average, and do not much mind it. hope to find every
Ithing promising well for the Association, though am told that a

bank is broken in which our Edinburgh friends had deposited a
magnificent dinner for us. We shall easily get over this loss and
shall philosophize none the worse.

                         Believe me, Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                             KELso, Sep. 19, 1834.

MY DEAR AIRY,

I have not been able to make out even yet with certainty

when Arago will come tO'Cambridge, though he assents fully, as it

seems, to my representation that it is impossible for him to leave

England without seeing our Observatory. He has a double will,

one part being lodged in his own breast and the other in that of

Pentland who is his leader in his travels, so that it is not always

easy to tell what will be the resultant volition. The most probable

I Ievent at present appears to be, that they will arrive in Cambridge
in the course of next week.  suppose shall be there when they

arrive, but it would be much better if you could be present.

Arago is in admirable good humour and has been a grand cheval

dev batailie in our Association, talking and speechifying on the

slightest provocation, and always very well. Upon the whole our
meeting has gone off in very good style and with good report.

We had more than plenty to do in the sections, and no special

absurdities or quarrels among the performers. The most difficult
business was the arrangement of the evening meetings; for
in our lack of matter, or of willing and able men, we allowed

Dionysius to tyrannize a whole evening concerning Babbage's

machine, which was universally declared to be a very heavy

infliction. Moreover, the room for our evening meetings was

much less than it was at Cambridge, and the company much
Igreater, so that the heat was something quite awful.
                                                       won

der it did not melt all the philosophers together, and produce

190 MR RICKMAN. 1834.

a new sort of Corinthian brass. we are to meet at Dublin next
year with Hamilton for our Secretary, so if we follow any rule

or order it will be very wonderful. The tryst is for the 10th

of August. We have legislated many wise and good laws to

guide our future proceedings, and are altogether a very pros

Iperous and hopeful crowd, as will explain to you more at
Ilength when we meet. We had more Cambridge men than

expected, but everybody cried shame upon you for not being there,

and lamented your absence without ceasing. The Edinburgh

people made much of us, and barring the heat and the bustle

the whole afl'air was very delectable.
I I Ishall be in Cambridge on Tuesday as expect.
                                                       hope'

you have gone on climbing mountains with good legs and fine,

weather. If you are at Edensor pray remember me very kindly

I Ito all the family from one end to the other; for numerous as

they are, would make a regular enumeration if supposed

you capable of encouraging any of them to forget me. Sedgwick

has been as usual complaining of being ill and talking more than

any seven men who are well. My kind regards to Mrs Airy

and your sister.

                  Yours always W. WHEWELL.

                  [To Mr Rickman.]

                                        DURHAM, Sept. 20th, 1834.

MY DEAR S1R,

IIn the course of the meeting at Edinburgh                         was

accosted by a gentleman who told me he was your brother-in-law.
I IBut in the bustle in which we were lost him before
                                                                   had

much conversation with him, and did not find him again. He

Iinformed me, which was very sorry to hear, that you are still
Iunwell; am willing to believe, however, that you are improving,

and that you are well enough to like to hear of my Scotch

Architectural Observations. If you are not, you can easily lay

Ithem aside for a better time, which hope will soon come.
IIn truth, have not given much time to architecture during the
Ifew weeks have spent in Scotland, butI will tell you what my

                      MR RICKMAN. 1834.                                                              191

    impressions have been, and should be very glad to have an

    opportunity of correcting them by yours. In the first place

    there are in Scotland clear well-formed examples of Norman,

    of Early English, and of Decorated, exhibiting very slight
    differences from the English examples of the same style. For

    instance, Iona, Dryburgh and Kelso are good light Norman;

    Holyrood, Iona, Glasgow, part of Elgin, Dumblane, and Dunkeld

    are Early English. The Chapter-House                        Elgin, the whole of
                                 is is
                                                           at.
    Melrose, parts of Iona are good Decorated. The main differences

    appear to be that the E. E.      seldom so free from attempts at

    geometrical tracery as ours--for instance, as Salisbury. You will

    notice that in Germany and great part of France the formation

    of a complete Gothic style       almost always accompanied by

    geometrical tracery. Also, though the E. E. bases are quite

    regular, the capitals are not exactly so; the division into three

    members being here less clear than with us, and the forms more

    clumsy.       think, moreover, that the E. E. toothed ornament
is is

       I

                                                                                    is
      continued in the Dec. work. It begins in the Norman, and

      sometimes used very large, but never so well executed as our

    best. The flowing tracery of the Dec. work                                          rather French

    than English in its character, both by the want of subordination

    in the tracery lines, by the forms of the openings, and by the

    screwed flow of the pattern think you will know what mean).
                           (I                                                           is

                                              is                                          I
    But one thing which have observed             that vaulting was much
                      is                                                                         is

                        I
    less generally practised than with us. Glasgow, which fully

    developed E. E., not vaulted, nor Elgin, which E. E. and

    Dec, nor Dumblane (E. E.) nor the decorated part of Dunkeld.

      do not mention Kelso, as           Norman, and therefore its not
is I                             it

                                      is

                                      I
    being vaulted according to rule.is    have seen no stone vaulted

    roofs over the main spaces (the aisles are often vaulted) except

    Holyrood, Melrose, and (doubtful, as  it      a restoration), Dunkeld.

                                              is

    From the arrangement of the clerestory windows, wall-plate, and

    end-windows,      should suppose there had been a waggon
              I
                  I
    vault at Glasgow, Elgin, Dumblane. As ` to the question of

    Glasgow,      have not examined  it  historically, but this one may

    say on mere architectural grounds. The date of the foundation

      about that of King David (AD. 1136), to which period belong

192 REV. R. JONES. 1834.

Kelso, Dryburgh, Jedburgh, and the foundation of Melrose.

J IThe whole existing building at Melrose is of the time of Robert

Bruce (1320), and edburgh have been obliged to leave unseen.
But the oldest part of Dryburgh is light Norman with shafts,

repeated mouldings, chamfered dripstones, and the like. Kelso

Iis of the same character, and this appears scarcely to have been

touched by repairs, and may, conceive, be taken as a type of
Ithe style of King David's time.
                                  believe also that Jedburgh

belongs to the transition from Norman to E. E. Any one who

maintains that Glasgow belongs to the same period must assert

that difl'erent styles have no definite relation of time to each

other. For Glasgow is E. E. in all details, and, though some

parts deviate from our E. E., they deviate much more from

Norman. Even the crypt is clearly of E. E. character, and some
Iof its vaulting is curiously complex.
                                        did not see Mr M°Lelland
I(I think that is the name of your friend), for was in Glasgow

but one day, and was then tempted to run off by the prospect
Iof a tour in a steamboat which
                                        performed very agreeably.
I then rambled about the Highlands till the meeting called me

to Edinburgh. The meeting went on very prosperously and is to

reassemble next year in Dublin. You will hear the details from

Isome of your Birmingham friends.
        beg my kind regards to Mrs Rickman, and am, my dear Sir,

                           Yours very truly W. WHEWELL.

I have heard from E. Sharpe, who desires me to tell you
I Iso, but cannot at present get at his letter easily.
                                                        shall be

in Cambridge in two days.

JMY DEAR onus,                          Tnm. COLL. Oct. 6, 1834.

I wonder whether there is any chance of my seeing
Iyou before my term sets in.
                              had some intention of going

to London, or perhaps further in your direction, but now that

I Iam here and have done with the fellowship examination, feel
Ilittle inclined to move.
                           can get a little of my Induction done,`

        REV. R. JONES. 1834.                       193

and am at work upon it with great activity and comfort, which

Iis more than can expect when the days of lectures begin.
I have never been able to do much in term time, and shall

perhaps be at least as little as ever my own master, for Perry

I Iis fallen ill, at least too ill for hard work, and fear shall

Ihave a lecture extraordinary thrown upon me. In the mean time
  am going on very prosperously, and getting through a good deal

of my hardest work. The history of mechanics and astronomy
Iis so important and instructive, that must be tolerably full.
It has never been written according to any philosophical view
I I(how should it 2) and
        think             can make it amusing to others

I--it is excessively so to me. I- expect too that by means of it
   shall be able to stop the mouths of all gainsayers of my
Iphilosophy. For you are to understand that
                                             still hold my

philosophy of the sciences to be one of the most valuable parts

of my speculations. D'abord, it is essential in order to give

anything like consistency to my views of the method of philoso

phising, or to Bacon's or any body's else. However, you shall

deubt about this if you like--till the time comes when you are

ashamed to have doubted. By the way, you are not to judge of

Imy philosophy by the scraps and snatches which send you

of it: my palace is not to be appreciated by specimen-stones.

I Ihave only given you sketches of the general notions which had
Imost difficulty in getting into a tangible form.
                                                   dare say you

will think the difficulty remains still unsurmounted. In the

Imean time have found an excellent device for keeping all these

cramped and puzzled chapters out of the narrative part of the
Ibook.
        write at the same time two Books, one of history, and
Ione of philosophy, and when find myself, in the course of my

historical researches, becoming metaphysical and transcendental,

I open Book two, in which all these things fall into their places,

and will in the end make the most beautiful system that can

Ibe imagined. Like D'Alembert, am tempted to exclaim, "Ah,

que jefais ole belles chases que personne ne lira, pas ! "

                               a s as it

   ITell Mrs Jones that should delight of all things to hear

her music box, and hope to do so before long, but that there is

w. II.                                             13

194 PROF. J. PHILLIPS. 183 4.

Ianother lady, "philosophy, heavenly maid," who keeps such an

incessant din in my ears that cannot hear anything else, day

Ior night, and who will hardly let me stir to the other end of
my lime-tree walk without accompanying me.     hope to get

rid of her some day or other, or, if not, to make her better

company.          ssas

                     Adieu. Yours always W. WHEWELL.

                     THIN. COLL. CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 7, 1834.

DEAR PHILLIPS,

      I Isend you a short statement of what said about

Herschel's theory, which is too conjectural to be of any perma

nent value, but may serve to show that we undulationists do not
conceive that we are inferior in many points to our adversaries,

Ithat             we have any, for do not know where they are to
             is,     I
            if
be heard of.

     There are only two points about which have any thing

to say with regard to our publication. In the first place, pray
                        I
do not omit to mention what the Liverpool people, the members
                                   II
of the Athenaeum and the Corporation, have done for Tidology;

   do not see that any of the public prints have noticed it. gave

you a written memorandum about it. In the next place, either

print Mr Hodgkinson's researches on collision in full, or let

me know what you are going to do about them, that may

inform him. They appear to me to be well done and of value,

and, as he seems to have been moved by my expressions to

undertake them, consider myself as specially bound to watch
                  I

over their interests, and see justice done them somewhere.
        think have devised an anemometer, which will answer
I
       II
the object have always considered the main one, of determining

the total amount of the wind in any time; but have not yet
                                            I

had leisure to think about the execution of it. Arago, who was
here, says that in respect of your York meteorological obServations

                  ARCHDEACON HARE. 1834.                                         195

your zeal and diligence  are admirable, but your apparatus indif
ferent. Believe me       Yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

     Sedgwick has not been heard of here.                                     I have sent your letter
to Dent for him. Who is Mr Badnall?

                                                                              Tam. Conn. Oct. 19,1834.

MY DEAR HARE,

                  a s a in

IThere is another point about which you enquire, your Cole
ridge prize.  do not think the scheme will answer as you state

                  iIs,

                                                                   is
it. That subject  think, an unsuitable one for a prize essay,

on which we have no system of opinions which generally accepted

as right, while the publication of opinions which were considered to

be wrong would involve the writer in the most odious charges. A

subject so vast, so important, and s0 unsettled as the philosophy of

Christianity should not be tossed over to a few' ardent and, very

likely, fearless young men, to make their theories on for the sake

of a prize. You and Sterling1 perhaps think that Coleridge has

drawn the outline of such philosophy, and that only remains
it is                                                                         I
   it
                                                                                      it
    I
                                                                                                I
                        it
                           is it

                                          a
to develope the parts of on his principles.                                   do not know that

this so; am sure                                                          not generally allowed to be so; and

hold certain that candidates would not write in such a spirit,

except was made an express condition. So much of the scheme
itself--but as to its reception here, you think a moment, you will
                                                                          if

not dream that will be tolerated. The very phrase, "the philoit
sophy of Christianity," or any equivalent one, will frighten our

dignitaries from their propriety. They will see in nothing but

trumpet-call to heresy and extravagance. Where will you find
judges? In short, do not see what can be made of the plan.
I                                                                             I

          1                                                                          it

                       it                                                                                        a

                   I

                                                                       a
  should think unadvisable in proportion as think the subject

itself important in the highest degree. At the present moment

        The scheme of founding prize at Cambridge to commemorate Coleridge
was started by John Sterling, Who at this time was acting as curate to Mr Hare at
Hurstmonceux.

                                                                                         3--2
                                                                              1

196 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1834.

some coherent system of views, capable of being admitted into the
English minds of the present day, and bearing on the great
problems which the phrase suggests, would be of inestimable
service to men's religious and intellectual stability. You must

Inot think me narrow-minded because make the condition which

I Ihave underlined (though dare say Sterling will think so) and

Iyou must allow me to say that think Coleridge's views somewhat
Ifail in this, and all the German philosophy that have seen fails
Istill more. It would be a long and dim discussion, if were to

attempt to give you a detailed how and why for this; but you will

Inot contest with me, think, that the next step which our public

can take in abstract speculations must depend on the steps they

have taken already. The meanings which words and modes of

expression have acquired, the connections and generalisations
which it is possible to call up in men's minds, must depend on the

past progress of literature and speculation among them; and truth

is not truth, if you alter the discipline which this progress exercises.

Coleridge appears to me to assume, and require, for the under
standing of his religious speculations, an intellectual discipline
different from that which the English have hitherto had ;

ISchleiermacher and the best of the Germans undoubtedly do so.
   conceive therefore that the truths, which may be found in the

writings of these men, must be taken up in the mind of some

genuine Englishman and given out in a suitable form, before

they will take a national hold upon us. Do this, if you can and
will, and you will be an immense benefactor to England; and

when this is done, you may with more safety and profit set
youths to write prize essays on your subject.

   I had the pleasure of seeing Coleridge a few weeks before his

death, and, what was also a great pleasure, took Worsley to him,

who had never seen him before. He talked wonderfully well;

Iamong other things expressed the deepest sorrow at Thirlwall's
letters.  spent a day with Wordsworth with great satisfaction;

sailing on Windermere and wandering on its banks all day with

him.

          an as a  Is

                   Yours ever, W. W.

            ARCHDEACON HARE. 1 834.                       1 97

               Tarn. COLL. Oct. 27, 1834.

MY DEAR HARE,

I IThe Coleridge prize, as you present it in your last letter, is
a more feasible scheme than as had conceived it.  still think

there is a good deal of difficulty about the plan, but it is worth
Ifconsidering. My reflexions upon it are of this colour.
                                                          you

would be content with essays which, in their subjects and in the

Istyle of treating them, should not differ materially from our present

race of Hulsean and Norrisian Essays, do not think there would

be any insurmountable difliculty in setting it on foot; but then it

may be questioned whether the addition of another such prize

Iwould be any very valuable boon to the University, or any very

lofty monument to Coleridge's memory. Still would not at once

look slightingly at such a project; for the mere name of Coleridge

would, to a certain extent, tinge the speculations of the writers,

and the establishment of the thing with its name would bring him

more to the notice of our divines, young and old, as a religious

philosopher; and certainly they could not acquire this knowledge

Iof him without great benefit to themselves. But for this purpose
  think it would be better to avoid such a phrase as "the Philo

Isophy of Christianity," and to describe the subject in some way
wider in extent and more modest in expression.    am not sure

that it might not be best to follow your suggestion, and make it a

prize for metaphysical dissertations on speculative subjects gene

rally, or with only a recommendation that they should by prefer

ence be such as illustrate the history of Christianity, and the

connexion of the Christian scheme with views of man's place and

nature borrowed from other sources. The Philosophy of Christi

anity is a good phrase now, and would suit Coleridgian specula

tions well; but it may easily become a technical phrase, and in

ten years may be fastened upon some system of extreme absurdity

or error; or at best the subject would lose its interest for want of
Ifvariety.
            you still adhere to the essay, there is a good deal of

discretion and knowledge of the land requisite in fixing the con--

ditions of the candidates, judges, competition, &c., and undoubt

edly the cast of the institution in future would probably depend

198  Y REV. R. JONES. 1834.

much upon the subjects of the first one or two prizes. In my
opinion they ought not to be too wide. A vast field encourages

the vain and foolish, but puzzles or misleads the clever, and
destroys the effect of the exercise as a discipline.

   I have talked only to some of our younger men about this

matter, as they have been the only ones who have come in my
way. They appear to agree with me, but that may be from
hearing my View first, so you had better come and get at their

genuine opinions.                       here.  If you will let me
                                        rooms
   I am right glad that you are coming         ready for you and
Iknow when you are coming, will have

all other things suitable. Thirlwall is not here, and Blakesley

conjectures that he is gone to look at the effect of the storms on

the cliffs of the Isle of Wight, a project which he had in contem

plation. The Marchesa bids me say that she rejoices extremely

in the thought of seeing you again. Adieu.

                Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                        Tum. COLL. Dec. 19, 1834.

MY DEAR JONES,

       I was right glad to read the way in which you talk of your
Ispeculations, except that have some doubts how far your older

work may come out sooner from your having to write a new one

Ifirst. But do not much mind this. If you will put your views

together in a form, that you know to be sound and right, and

publish them with a tranquil mind, confident as you well may be

of their value, and leaving the world to appreciate them when it

has a lucid.interval, as it will, you cannot fail of being all you

would desire. Townsend brought me some absurd story of your
Ihaving a fancy for publishing sermons, which spurned with a
Ideclaration that anybody could publish sermons, not much think
Ito the satisfaction of Rose, who was with us at the time.
                                                            want

extremely to see in what state your labours are, and will come to

you sometime during the vacation that you may tell me, so pray
I Iarrange that it may be so.
                hardly know when shall start, for
I have not been able to do much during the term, having had,

              PROF. J. PHILLIPS. 1834.               » 199

contrary to my expectation, two lectures at day, and besides a deal
Iof tide work; but have been my own master almost three days,
Iand am getting on famously.
                               am the more unwilling to break up
Imy camp yet, because want to have done with astronomy, which

I Iis of course my pattern science, and must have its story told with
some detail and completeness.  think am within a week of the
Iend; certainly within a fortnight, if can escape Christmas jun
Ikettings. My work becomes clearer and firmer before me as go
Ion, and have great confidence that you will admire even my

Iphilosophy when you see its bearings.     But we can talk of this

anon.   have had a letter from Herschel dated Sep. 21. He is

in the most charming spirits and hopes--has a new daughter quite

well and very quiet---and is doing and enjoying as much as

possible. Hare has been here and is just gone back to your

neighbourhood; that   is,   you are at St Leonards, as shall suppose
                               II
                        if
                                             I
                                                I

                                                                      a
in directing this. So has Rose, and lament to say think in

worse health rather than better; but may be mistaken. The

Coleridgians want to establish a Coleridge Prize Essay on meta

physical subject as a memorial of him; and we have taken for

granted that you are Coleridgian and metaphysician zealous

enough to join us--so you are on the list, the Heads consent.
                                           I if

                                                                                is
Adieu.  I  must work hard tonight and tomorrow morning for

the books are to be sent back to the Library. hope Mrs Jones
well and well pleased with your manifold migrations.

                               Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

                      [To Professor Phillips]

                            TRINITY Conn. CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 28, 1834.

MY DEAR SIR,

        send you sketch and description of my anemometer,
       I      a
           I
                       if it
which will, hope, make         intelligible, and enable you to set

up one of the same kind, you approve of it.    am fully per--
                                               I
                                                                of any
                                                            is
suaded that the only anemometrical indication which

value in meteorology  is    that which have here attempted to
                                        I

obtain, namely, the quantity of wind transferred upon the whole

200 PROF. J. PHILLIPS. 1834.

in each direction. It is true that, even if we obtain this, we

,do so only for the lowest stratum of the atmosphere, which may

Ibe the least important; but this is all we can do at present.
  should be very glad to know what you think of the contrivance

and its probable utility, and whether you foresee any difficulties

and defects in the machine.                              -

I am glad to hear that Mr Hodgkinson is pursuing the sub
I Iject of his paper.
               am not sure whether interpret aright
Ia passage in your letter, where you seem to suppose that have
Ithe paper in my possession. This is not the case; left it in
Iwhat supposed to be .the official hands for transmitting it to
Ithe printing press, when was at Edinburgh----if not in yours,
I presume in Lloyd's, the secretary of our Section.

   I know nothing of Mr Badnall or of his communication,
Inor did hear anything of Mr Saxton's Thermometer. Perhaps

this was something which was brought forward in the mechanical
Isub-section.
               will tell Miller what you wish me to do.
IMy communication on the action of the eye in vision did
Inot find time to make, which was very fortunate.
                                                     only volun

teered it at first because they were reported to want matter in

that Section, and should probably have edified them very little
Iif had given it. It need not be referred to again.
                                                         .
IProf. Sedgwick is at Norwich, and, should suppose, has rather

more leisure than usual; so if you write to him again you may

possibly get something out of him.

   I am glad you are looking forward to the arrangements at

Dublin. The evening meetings are undoubtedly the great diffi

culty, but, if people will look at them in good humour, there is

nothing which may not be well managed.

The observations at Monk Wearmouth Pit are very interest--
Iing.
       do not see how you are to disprove the existence of

chemical action in the subterranean regions. But then, to pro

duce such a diffusion of temperature as we find, the chemical

action must be on a scale so large that its effects can hardly be

distinguished in our conception from central combustion or the

remains of combustion. Is this sound doctrine ?

       Believe me, Yours very truly, W. WHEWELI,

                 M. QUETELET. 1835.  201

                 [To M. Quetelet.]

                 Tmmrv COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 3, 1835.

MY DEAR SIR,

Allow me to press upon your government, through you,

the claims of Science, to which they may at present render an

essential service by a small expenditure of money and trouble.
Your countrymen have the power of conferring a great benefit

upon astronomy by instituting and carrying on a series of tide

observations on your coasts. The laws of the tides have never

yet been determined from observation, and the time seems now

to be come when this strange and shameful deficiency is on the

point of being remedied by the governments and mathematicians

of Europe. The English observations and calculations are now

in progress, which will solve the problem so far as our coasts
Iare concerned.
                 have good reasons to hope that the subject
Iwill soon be prosecuted to the same extent in France, and shall

shortly cause a representation to be made to the government of

Holland for the same object. The Belgian coast at Nieuwport

and Ostend would supply an important addition to the knowledge

of those seas which we require--the more important, inasmuch

as the course of the tides in that region is very curious and com

plex. According to the usual statements on this subject, the

tide wave is at the same moment travelling in two opposite

directions on the shores of Belgium and of England: and the

way in which the tides on the two coasts are related to each

other is certainly such as can only be determined by good obser

vations in both countries. Besides these local peculiarities, a
continued series of good tide observations on the Belgian coast

would be of great service in supplying materials for the general

theory of the tides, which theory cannot be completed without
Iobservations at many places.
                               trust that your government will

not be slow in taking its share in that patronage of science, and

especially of astronomy, which is now the pride and the glory

of the most civilized nations. The promotion of astronomy has

long been considered a national object in every part of Europe,

but our knowledge of the tides has been left in arrear of the

202 AROHDEACON HARE. 1835.

other branches of astronomy. The time is now come to repair
this neglect, and the institution of observations for this purpose
belongs to maritime nations in particular. We shall soon have

a chain of tide observations along the coasts of Europe, and it
would be a matter of great sorrow to the mathematicians of

Europe to find an interruption in this chain occurring at the

IBelgian shores. trust that this will not happen, but that, on the

contrary, we shall be able to combine Belgian series of tide
observations with the best series obtained in France and England ;

Iand am fully persuaded that the government which procures

such observations to be made will feel itself amply rewarded
by the reputation of having contributed to fill up the only
remaining blank in our astronomical knowledge, and by the con

sciousness of having rendered a good service to navigation as well

as to theoretical science.

                                         Believe me, my dear Sir,

      Very truly and faithfully yours, W. WHEWELL.

IRS.  send along with this copies of my printed papers on
Ithe subject, which shall be much obliged, if you will present to

the Minister of your Marine as a testimony of my respect.

                                                                            Tam. Conn. Feb. 13, 1835.

MY DEAR HARE,

    I do not know whether your hopes were very confident

that the Heads would embrace our proposition about a Coleridge

Essay: but, if so, it would appear they were delusive. The

V. C. informs me that the answer to your application to them

is that they are not disposed favourably towards such a proposal;

Iand hear both from him and from our Master that the objection

is not to any accidental and extraneous part of the scheme,
but to the name of Coleridge. With our governors, it seems,

the vagaries of his earlier times are better known than the

I IChristian philosophy, which he has impressed upon so many in
his riper years.  am sorry for this, for think the Essay might,

with good management and good fortune, have been of beneficial

                          PROF. J. D.- FORBES. 1835.                              203

Iinfluence here; but do not see what further can be done in
Ithe present state of things. If you can suggest any thing, shall

be glad to be of use. When Townsend was here he was very

zealous about the erection of a monument to C. in Westminster

Abbey; holding that many in after years would in some tranquil

moment or other imbibe from such a memorial some sober and
Iphilosophic thought.
                                  told him that there were in these times

few people quiet and humble enough to be benefited by such

Isuggestions; but did not convince him, and indeed had, no
Ivery serious wish to do so. By the way, have just received

from him some verses of Stewart Rose, mainly about him, and

a little Essay by him on the subject of the intellectual progress

of the poor--the latter very amiable; but what sort of a man

does it require to take a right hold of that subject in its whole

extent
I
                     '1'You will be glad to hear that Jones                       appointed, or likely
                                           is
                                                          is
                                                                       is a
to be appointed immediately, to the Haileybury Professorship.

am sorry to say, however, that the appointment but pre

carious one; for the scheme of abolishing the College, which

has always found favour with a portion of the directors, now

more loudly urged than ever, and will probably be brought before

parliament when meets.
                          it

                              at  s
                                                s

                                                                              is

                                  Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                  Tanrrx COLL. CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 14, 1835.

MY DEAR FORBES,                                                                   ,

I                         am so much interested with your experiments on the

polarization of heat, that do not know     it I iIf                               can wait till the
                                  I
                                        I
first of March for the sequel of them. When talked of double

refraction without polarization, thought                                          possible that you

.had got two separate rays of heat by double refraction, and had

examined sometimes the one and sometimes the other. Such

double refraction without polarization would result the vibra
                                           I

                                                        if
tions which constitute heat were longitudinal instead of transverse,

and this seemed a very possible theory.                                           have no hesitation

204 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1835.

Iin saying that wish to look forward to the general theory in

Icollecting the laws of particular phenomena, and, with regard to
heat,  do not know any experiments which promise so much

in this way as yours. If you have     heat polarized with double
                                                   I see no reason
refraction, you must have transverse  vibrations.

Iwhy you should not, but should         like extremely to know in

what these vibrations differ from those of light. There is plenty

of room for such, for all the vibrations below red and above

violet are not light. Pray let me know what you have proved,

or even conjectured, about the length of a vibration of heat.

Can you not get your rings and brushes by letting the heat

fall upon some very thin film of fusible varnish covered with

coloured powder, or some such matter? At any rate, when you

Ihave time, pray let me know what progress you have made. .
        sent your suggestions on meteorological doctrines to Herschel,

Ifrom whom have recently heard, and who is in excellent health

and spirits. He had spent one night in tiger hunting, but

seemed to think it poor sport compared with the "chasse aux

e'toiles doubles." He is president of a Literary and Philosophical

ISociety of the Cape of Good Hope, and have sent them a
Imemoir on their own tides, which hope will set them to work.

It is a great shame that you have not regular tide-observations

at Leith. Pray how goes on your observatory after the ambiguous

sort of encouragement that the British Association gave it? By

the way, what a wonderful article is that in the Ed. Rev. about

us! My leading reflection upon it     is,that we have had very
                                            is,    aa
happy escape in getting out of the track into which the author
(of course Sir D. B.), would have urged us. To " obtain directI
                                        in other words, to get
national provision for men of science"

pensions from the government for our friends: a worshipful

employment truly! And then that you and should tell people
Ifwhere to establish fisheries and railroads!
                                               our present employ

ments are not more useful, they are at least what- we know some

thing about.  have some fears, however, that this combustible
              I

                      a
article may make blaze at Dublin, but do not think need
                         it                        I it

                                    I
be very mischievous, though seems to be intended to be 0.

I      hope you have had your newspaper hitherto, but must

               REV. H. J. ROSE. 1835.           205

Itell you that was not able to get one on the terms you men

tioned, and ordered the publisher to send it on his own, having

Ia prospect of managing better afterwards, which has not been

fulfilled. You must tell me whether am to continue to send
Iyou a primary Cambridge Chronicle, if cannot obtain a secondary
Ione.
       hope your library and your booksellers have by this

time got Deighton's books; he assures me the former were sent.

Airy is gone to town .to give his evidence about South's

equatoreal, and to predominate over the anniversary dinner of

the Astronomical Society, of which he is to be president. We

have got- our large telescope by Cauchoix, but it is not yet

adjusted. Sedgwick is just returned from his Norwich prebend

in great preservation. Adieu.

               Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                               TBIN. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 20, 1835.

MY DEAR Ross,

My architectural speculations are somewhat like the de

cisions of the judge, who only heard one side because his head
Iwas confused by hearing both.
                                look at the features of the

architecture, and pronounce very authoritatively what the date

and history of the building ought to be. This does very well

Iwhen take a large and distant field like France or Germany,

for it seems to enable me to classify and speculate, and there

is a reasonable excuse for turning aside from the labour of verify

ing my conjectures by historical research. But it would not do

so well for a single building in England; people would certainly

expect me to shew by some external evidence, that the period

and circumstances of the work were what my doctrines make
If I Ithem.
       had any historical testimony about Barfreston, would
I Itry what sort of story could make out ; but without that think
Iyour readers (for suppose you want me to discourse in the Brit.

Mag. though you do not say so) would imagine me a consummate

Idogmatist, if gave them a hypothetical narrative and claimed
I Itheir belief.
       have not at this moment time, nor 'do know

where to seek materials, to make out a history of Barson. The

206 , SIR c. LYELL. 1835.

only historical fact which occurs to me, is .that it must have been
the residence of " goodman Puff of Barson"; who, according to

Mrs Quickly's notion, interfered with Sir John Falstatf's claim to

be "the greatest man in this realm." If any of your antiquarian

friends will look into the history of the place and make out any

Ithing about the church, will do my best to make the architecture
Iagreeable ; and, if anything comes in my way of that kind, will
Isee if can dish it up in a decent and presentable shape; but
Iwithout this think you would have little reason to be thankful

for my setting up for goodman Pufi' of Barson, and attempting

to putt the church a hundred years backward or forward with

my unassisted breath.
I Iagree with you altogether about Jones.
                                           think he is now

excellently well placed, and that all his best friends can do is

Ito hope his position may be permanent.              suppose
     Are you-surprised at the election for Speaker?

not, for by this time you must have learnt to be surprised at

nothing. Stanley's conduct seems to me to be as great a gain

Ifor the conservative cause as the loss of the Speakership is a

loss. As for a church reform, dare say it will be a reasonably

well compounded dose when one considers the doctors; and pro

bably when the first soreness of the application is over, we shall

feel rather better than worse for it. At any rate, we must hope
it will be so, as our good hopes are the best inheritance we

have left.

                       Always very truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                       Tam. Conn. CAMBRIDGE, Mar. 5, 1835.

MY DEAR LYELL,

          Airy has shewn me a letter of yours which, as it refers

Ito matters touching the tides, he thinks am entitled to answer.

Now if your enquiry be whether Laplace's calculations do really

give us any ground to believe the depth of the sea to be any

Ione of the depths mentioned by him, have no hesitation in
Isaying that do not think that any competent judge can' really

find inhis reasonings any sufficient ground for any opinion what

SIR o. LYELL. 1835.  207

 Iever about the amount or law of the depths of the ocean. That

  this is so, will, think, be obvious to anyone who considers that

  Laplace's reasonings all go upon the supposition of an earth
  covered with water; on which consequently the tide-wave might
  sweep round and round with no interruption such as continents

  produce. The existence of icontinents, breaking the ocean into

  seas of limited longitude, so entirely alters the problem, that
  it would be absurd to talk of Laplace's solution as an approxi

  mation. There is no more reason why the depth, or the law
  of the depth, should approach the results of his hypothesis, than

  there is why we should consider Newton's solution as an approxi

 Imation, which leaves the depth quite indeterminate. Indeed
      myself am fully persuaded that Newton's solution is at this

  moment the more trustworthy, and that Laplace's arguments
  against it (still founded on the hypothesis of a universal ocean)
  are of no weight whatever.

        Laplace himself allows the inconclusiveness of his own reason

 Iing on the grounds have stated. Thus (Me'c. Cél., P. 1, Liv. IV.,

  Art. 8) he says "theobservations made in our ports shew that
  the difference of the two tides on the same day is small, and
  that therefore the sea is nearly uniform in depth. But from
  the difference it appears that it is somewhat deeper at the poles
  than at the equator. But this consequence is subordinate to

  the hypothesis of a fluid regularly distributed over the surface
  of the spheroid, which is not the case of nature." The same

  may be said of all his other inferences on the depth of the sea.
       With respect to the uniformity of the depth of the sea as

  collected from the fact just referred to, the smallness of the differ

 Ience of the two tides the same day, not only doubt the reasoning

_ but disbelieve the fact. All the good observations of the tides

  made by the coastguard last June from the Scilly Isles to the

  Isle of Wight shew a decided difference of the morning and
  evening tide: the Bristol tide-gauge confirms this very clearly.

  The non-appearance of the difference at London is easily explained.

 I Ihave no doubt of the existence of the difference, but do not

  think Laplace's theory enables us to collect from it anything about

  the depth of the ocean.

208 SIR o. LYELL. 1835.

I have never been able to see through Laplace's analysis what

the mechanical principle                                by which he .makes the laws                   the
of                                                      is
                                                                     is
                                                   is,                     is
Iftides dependent on the depth of the ocean.            be, as Airy
                                                                            is it
thinks, that he takes the depth to be such as will suit the rate
                                                                                                 'of
travelling of the tide considered as a wave, and calculated

on the ordinary hydrodynamical theory, there not much diffi

culty in the subject, but the conclusion                worth nothing, on

account of the fallaciousness of the theory of the motion of waves.

According to this theory, the velocity of a wave the velocity

of falling body acquired down half the depth; and in my memoir
it, I
   aon co-tidal lines have on this principle stated that the depth
            4      if is,I I I
of the German ocean at the Nore 90 feet, on the east coast

of England 120 feet, of Scotland 360 feet, of the Atlantic west

of Ireland 2600 feet, of the Atlantic in its middle part 50000 feet

(Sect. of my paper).            I  do not believe these results, but they

are of more value than Laplace's, because they are deduced from

the actual velocity of the tide-wave.

have, however, a strong persuasion that the depth of the

Atlantic may be deduced from the velocity of the tide-wave along

when we know, better than we yet do, the laws by which the

rate of travelling of a wave depends on the depth and form of

its channel.       believe this improvement of our knowledge must

be loked for from a combination of theory and experiments;

some experiments in canals are now going on. But there                                                one
                                                        is is
point which        think, well worth the attention of geologists. The
                                                                 I
velocity of the tide-wave in the Atlantic certainly depends on                is

the depth, and there be a secular change in that velocity, there

must be secular change in the depth of the Atlantic. By ascer
it it
taining such facts about the tides, we should have an instrument
   I is
of research for the bottom of the ocean which out of the reachis a

of all other methods; a sounding line which             always out, and

which            longer than ever plummet reached. Nor do think

       impossible to make out such secular changes. Lubbock

has, conceive, shewn that the tide comes later to London than

   did in Flamsteed's time. If we had tide observations at the

Bermudas and Azores 200 years old, they might betray a new

Atlantis rising gradually to-day. Is not this worth thinking

         snrw. R. HAMILTON. 1835.                                                             209

I Iabout?
         could give you more reasons than have given for

not trusting Laplace's guesses about the depth Of the sea; but
Iperhaps you will have enough Of this.
                                        am in despair at not

being able to get tide information about the Pacific and its

shores.

                             Yours ever truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                               Tam. COLL. mennmen, April 12, 1835.

MY DEAR HAMILTON,

    I am glad to find you are seriously pondering the prospects

and conduct of the British Association, and especially the proper

course of behaviour which becomes it at Dublin. My intention
Iis certainly to attend, in which case shall set my foot on Irish
Iground for the first time in my life.
                                        have also some supple--

mentary schemes of prefixing or postfixing a small meandering

through the land to the grand explosion of spouting which is

to take' place in your city, according to the reviewer's appre

hensions. You talk of Brewster's article as containing hard

knocks, but, in truth, my feelings in reading it were mainly those

Iof self-gratulation, that any scheme in which was involved had

escaped the character, which, according to him, it was the object

I
          I

                          it

                                           is,
                                                            is,

                                                                a
                                                                             a

                                          iIf
                                                                                           a
of the founders of the society (that himself of course) to give
it. would not for any consideration on earth be party to

a plan for "inducing the government to make direct provision

for scientific men"----that       for bullying them. into giving us

pensions; and should think myself goose,                   were to be

tempted to give practical men my advice about railroads and

fisheries. Whoever   was that gave the Association another

turn did the state some service.

As to the future functions of the body, they are too doubtful
Ifin my mind to speculate much about.
                                        you work the Dublin

meeting well, as have no doubt you will, think you may fairly
if

               I

                           if
                                           if
                                                       it

                                            I
leave the guidance of the affair afterwards to the permanent

Officers (Harcourt, &c.), and to the general body. Nevertheless,

you think this base counsel, as   advised fiinching from a

difficult duty, and  you feel that you have a vocation for
       w. II.                                                                     14

210 `         REV. R. JONES. 1835.

I Iwielding the future fates of the Association, you may be a great

benefactor to it: but do not feel that have any views on the

subject worth talking of.

   It is tolerably clear from the experience of Edinburgh that

there is no fear of want of employment at the sectional meetings,

and that the difficulty of management applies to the evenings.

The success of the public discussions at Cambridge, as appears to

me, made people perhaps expect too much from such evenings.

I ITheir smaller success at Edinburgh has probably made people
think too unfavourably of them.  do not know what should

Irecommend, but you will easily choose a course, and we will
support you.  should have no fear of going on in the old way,

if the President is of that opinion.                            William

 I I' received your paper for which thank you much.

Wordsworth and his wife are here, and have talked of you more

than once.

Remember me to Dr and Prof. Lloyd very kindly, and

believe me,

              Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

              Tam. Conn. CAMBRIDGE, May 2, 1835.

   MY DEAR JONES,

       I Iought to have written to you sooner to say that do
Inot think it at all likely that can make my way to Haileybury

on Wednesday. Lectures and other matters have got dominion
Iover me, so that hardly know which way to turn myself, and
I Ibelieve must be content to be tethered at Cambridge for the
Iensuing month. Among other unexpected calls,
                                                     find that
I cannot get on very well without lecturing in Butler's Sermons,

which is carrying me into the whole business of moral principle

with reference to Hobbes, Mackintosh, and all the squad of

speculators on such matters. This will rather interfere with my
Iprescribed course of writing about Induction, but still hope to
Imanage in such a way as not to lose by it.
                                                shall expect to
Imanage so that what do will come into its place at some time

or other; for the beauty of my Induction  is,                   like the

                                                    it

                                                            is
                                          that

             .REV. R. JONES. 1835.                                  211

Devonshire man's pie, into which helputs every thing which he

catches.     a n a is

                               Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

             [To Mr Rickman

   MY DEAR SIR,                             Tarn. Com", May 6, 1835.

      I am at last able  Ito send you       Imy Norman notes.         am

almost ashamed of them   when          see  how trivial they are, and

they appear the more so after the extremely acute analysis and

excellent classification which we have just had to read in Willis's

Ibook. However, suppose they may do for beginners, and have
Isome effect in difl'using a knowledge of the subject, so am not
I Isorry that have finished them. You will see that have taken

occasion to write a preface containing a sort of review of the

present state of the subject.

    It is intended to reappoint the Fitzwilliam Syndicate in order

Ithat they may devise the best plan for obtaining the opinion
of the University respecting the building plans.            do not at all

know what plan they are likely to recommend, whether a pre

paratory selection of a few, or that each person should vote at .

I Ionce for one plan, or for an order of merit of several.
hope you continue as well as when                         saw you here.

Believe me,

                         Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                           Tam. Conn, May 9, 1835.

   MY DEAR JONES,

       IPray tell Mrs Jones that, though cannot speak, she has
Ionly to look at me attentively to see that am quite as much

pleased with her presence as she can be with mine, and that it
is only the reserve and gravity which Mr Eddis has thought it

fitting to bestow upon me`, which prevents my breaking out into

1 This refers to a lithograph of a. picture painted by Mr Eddis for Mr Worsley,

at present Master of Downing College.  The lithograph was by a daughter of
Mr Dawson Turner.

                                                            lit--2

212 REV. R. JONES. 1835.

a broad grin by way of shewing the satisfaction her complacent

Ilooks and comfortable sayings give me. Indeed, if she looks

again, am sure she will find that, however much Worsley may

Ihavetried to have me made looking profound and metaphysical,
  am in fact amusing myself at the expense of those who imagine

Ime bestowing my thoughts on any thing except the persons am

with, and hardly bridling my smiles when such visionary people
                                                         `
come into my head.
I had seen the London Review of Sedgwick, but had looked
Iat nothing else, till you directed me to the note about you.
                                                               am

somewhat puzzled, not being able to make out whether the

reviewer is a scoundrel, who, by bringing together ferocious

expressions knowingly, endeavours to excite people's passions

against an antagonist, or whether he is a real bond fide example

of that silliness which belongs to Benthamites and the like;

and which can see nothing but moral horrors in all persons of
Iopposite opinions. However, do not know that it is any great
Ibusiness of yours or mine to settle this knotty point.
                                                         do not

think Sedgwick will fight. He was applied to by the book

Iseller who publishes his sermon (which is now a widely circulating

book), but, wisely think, laughed and refused. It would cost

him some trouble to make his view of the matter water-tight--

for he has talked somewhat loosely--not, however, that the
Ireviewer is any thing very formidable. Indeed think he does
Inot believe what he defends.
                               have been reading a little about
Isuch matters of late, and though thought it an interruption,
I Iit has answered pretty well.
                               have got a glimpse, which have

long been wishing and struggling for, of the inductive history

Iof ethics. Mackintosh's Dissertation is my main guide, but
Ithink can both correct and extend his view, besides making it
Imerely a branch of the universal tree of knowledge.
                                                         have

got another scheme of writing a short Essay, on Mathematicsas

a part of liberal education, to appear as the preface to a new

edition of one of my many mechanical books, which is wanted.
The plan at least is after your heart, and we will talk about it.

I hope you work, and actively, at your printed lecture book.
   I perceive that you plume yourself upon some architectural

                REv. R. JONES. 1835.                        .213

Iclearsightedness of yours which, it appears, you have shewn, but
   cannot make out in what you suppose it to have been exerted.

If it were in conjecturing that Saracen architecture had to do

Iwith Gothic, hope you will observe that the only feature of

resemblance which Willis allows is the pointed arch, which

requires no peculiar eye, and that the novelty of his opinion

'is, not that there is a resemblance, but that Europe derived

it from Asia; a point of history, not of eye. Observe too that
if Rickman and Willis have done anything, it has been to make

that a distinction or resemblance in enunciated principle, which

was before a matter of eye or of guess (like enough, mistaken).
The architecture of other eastern countries may have borrowed

from Byzantium, for it exhibits domes, the only peculiar Byzantine

feature. Whether domes are Byzantine depends on the way
Iin which they are supported.
                                 should like to see any sketches

which illustrate this.

   I IIf go to London in the next fortnight, will try to hear one

of your lectures. Adieu.

                                 Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                 THIN. COLL. CAMBRXDGE, May 26, 1835.

MY DEAR JONES,
I was thinking that of us two it was time that one wrote
Ito the other, when your letter came.
                                       have hardly had time

Ito con over your examination papers, but they appear to me on
a first glance to be excellent.  see many reasons for thinking

that your system of examinations by the lecturers themselves
Ihas several advantages over ours. It is also, think, in some
Idegree the Oxford system.
                                 am still scheming and speculating

Ifor the improvement of our system here. Among other things
   lately wrote to the Editors of the Encyclopwdla, Britannica

offering, if they would edit Mackintosh's History of Moral Philo

sophy in a separate and convenient form for our men, to write

a preface, or analysis, or some other kind of appendage, to recom- ,

I Imend it to our students as the best text-book on the subject.

They have agreed to this, and think can make a good job

214 MW. R. JONES. 1835.

IIof and fix moral philosophy here as one of the subjects for
        it,
        Iour class men.also want to write, as think told you, a
               is I                                I
                       II                                  is I
pamphlet about mathematics as a part of a liberal education,

which will all be founded on the principles of the true philosophy

without my telling people more of them than requisite to

be told for the purpose.     want you to come and talk about

this, for dare say we shall disagree hugely. Another business

have on hand    a sermon to be preached before the Brethren

of the Trinity House on Trinity Monday--an appointment of

our new Chancellor`. If can get hold of you in time, must
                                                                 II
make you be my critic for that too. Besides this, have cannot
                                                   is
tell you how many re-editions of books to look after, so that
                                                     I
am likely to lead a very literary existence for some time. By

the way, you never told me whether you agreed with my archi

tectural speculations, but that also we can settle hereafter.          am
                                                                 it

                                                                   is I
rejoiced that you are still resolute about your book that to

be. By all means and on all accounts get on with                 as fast

and as well as you can. As you say, this           no world to lose

time in, for we may be out of heart or out of breath in little
                                                                 a

while, but for the present hope, as you say, that we are both
                          I

going on well and doing what we were intended to do.             I   have

contrived to work through the history of Heat, Electricity and

Magnetism during this term, which are very pretty now they

are done (so, you know, are all my eggs when new-laid). And
now have got to write a report for the British Association
II

                 is

                  I
                                               is

                                 I
on the same subjects, which to be added to my literary employ
ments proper to the next month--that too will be " very pretty,"

as presume. Come here as soon as you can, and let me know

when that to be.     want to go to London, and may perhaps

come and hear your lecture, but move with reluctance and

not without inconvenience at present. Lodge and Sedgwick are

just returned from Yorkshire, having voted on opposite sides;

Sedgwick has been exhibiting as a hustings orator. One cannot
but feel that the present state of the country breaks up all those
circles of early friendship which at a former period one hoped
would supply a good deal of the quiet pleasures of maturer age.

                  1  The Marquess Camden.

             REV. H. WILKINSON. 1835.                     215

However, the business is to make the best of what we have.

My kind regards to Mrs Jones.           _

                               Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR WILKINSON,        Tam. Conn.  CAMDEIDGE, June 2, 1835.
                         to answer
    I hold myself bound               all reasonable questions

concerning the tides and my own lucubrations about them, and
Itherefore
             should not have neglected to reply to yours while
Ithey were somewhat fresher than they now are, if had not

Iexpected to be able to fortify my doctrines by a paper which
  intended to publish soon, but which has only just been finished,

I Iand which now send you. You were in some doubt, if rightly

recollect, about the stoppage of the tide undulations at their

I Imeeting, and your doubts were very consistent and rational;
   wish could get the practical men, the sailors and surveyors,

Ito look at the matter in a way half so agreeable to mechanical
principles.  could have told you then that the two opposite

undulations would not in fact stop at their meeting, but would

Igo forwards, each modifying the other, but could not have quoted
Iat that time the evidence, which now have, that this is really

the state of the case on our shores. You will find the result
I Istated in the paper which send you.
                                        am sorry that it refers
Ito the South Coast alone, but could get no more work done

by my clerk at the Admiralty, and so was glad to publish what

Iis already done. _ was the more desirous of doing this, inasmuch

as we are going this month to repeat the observations 'of last

June from the 9th to the 28th: and the tides are to be watched

for this period, not only at the coastguard stations in the British

Isles, but also at a great number of points on the coast of Europe

and America; for the governments of Sweden, Denmark, Belgium,

Holland, France, Spain, Portugal and the United States have

been applied to, and most of them have agreed very cordially

Ito co-operate. You see shall have such a register of the vagaries

of the tide-wave for a fortnight as has never before been collected,

I Iand, have no doubt, shall get some curious results out of it.

216 SIR R. MURCHISON. 1835.

IIndeed, think you will see that the inferences from my last
Iyear's observations make this quite certain.
                                               do not know that
I shall be in your part of the world this summer. The British
Association meets at Dublin, Aug. 8; if you can move then you
Icannot do better than join us.
                                 shall try to hang on an Irish

tour .as an appendage to this meeting before and after; and shall

put myself in motion hence as soon as our own hubbub` is over.

IBy the way, you will perhaps come here to help us to install,

in which case shall have the pleasure of seeing you in July.

I hear,'not unfrequently, from Herschel, who appears to be enjoy

ing his residence at the Cape exceedingly, and has got over some

of the difficulties which he found at first in the way of observing.

Jones is become a sort of distant neighbour of ours, having been

appointed to the Professorship of Political Economy in the East,

India College near Hertford, which was vacated by the death of

IMalthus. Sedgwick is just recovering from a bad cold which
he brought with him out of Yorkshire.          suppose he caught

it by turning hustings orator in the rain and cold, which according

to his own account, as well as that of others, he did while he was
Iin Dent.
           hope you were edified by his doctrines.

Give my kind regards to Mrs Wilkinsons both, and remember

me to the children.

                     Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

     -I send you a lithographic effigy of myself, about the resem
blance of which opinions are divided.

                                 16, SUFFOLK Sr., July 15, 1835.

MY DEAR MUROHISON,

          You will be grieved to hear that Sedgwick is prevented
joining you by a misfortune in his family. His brother, who
came from the Isle of Wight to enjoy the amusements of the

Installation week at Cambridge, on Thursday morning, without
any warning, received the sad news that his wife had died
suddenly of a premature confinement. He was overwhelmed,

and Sedgwick is gone back with him home. When this is done,

                PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1835.                  21.7

he returns to Cambridge and stays there till the meeting at

Dublin, which he still purposes to attend.
   IAs for myself, cannot even yet tell you certainly whether
I shall be able to join you at Milford Haven. The Admiralty
Iare to give me a clerk to work the tides for me.
                                                       saw Lord

I IAuckland on the subject yesterday, and want to set my man
to work before  leave London. It is possible           may yet
Iovertake you at the Haven on the 20th, but, if do not, you will

of course not think of waiting for me. Only leave a line at the

Post Office, Milford Haven, to mention your line of march, that

I may judge of the chance of falling in with you.

Our festivities at Cambridge went on very prosperously, the

weather being fine and the arrangements all successful. Your

two foreign friends, Teleki and Clary, were there and appeared

Ito be amused and pleased, except that the Prince lost his hat
in the great dinner at Trinity.  believe, however, he recovered

it next day.                                               shall

   I IIf do not reach the Haven in time to go with you,
Iperhaps sail direct for Cork, which, think, was not your plan.

IIn that case we may possibly come together on the banks of
Killarney.  shall expect to find you waking the echoes with

your hammer, and Mrs M. propitiating the genius of the place

for such a violation of his sanctity by putting a flattering like

ness of him in her sketch-book. With my best regards,

                                 Yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

     Lieut. Drummond is appointed  Secretary for Ireland, and
starts for Dublin immediately.

                                                        16, Surromr 812., July 15, 1835.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

       I Irejoiced much to hear from you, and hope that am

not too late 'to catch you at Montpelier. As you anticipated,
your letter arrived just at the moment of the eruption of our
installation festivities. These are now over well and prosperously,

and I am on the point of starting for the south of Ireland, where

218 PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1835.

I am to make a little giro previously to the gathering at Dublin.
I was much interested with your account of the reception of your

doctrines about heat, and glad that you arrived so opportunely

as to prevent their being rejected untried; for though the

sufi'rages of people, who judge after Biot's fashion, are not worth
Imuch, they have their consequences.
                                        am glad too the tides
Iare a printing, but fear they will go on slowly. Our Admiralty

here have undertaken the reduction of the June observations,
I Iand am in London now in order to set them to work.
                                                             had

a few days ago a letter from Herschel, who begs me to thank

you for your notes about meteorology. But he says he cannot un
derstand why you have assumed such a formula asA (cos. lat)% -- B
for the diurnal variation. He has been making experiments

with his actinometer, which convince him, he says, that invisible

vapour stops more heat than air does.

We are going to suffer a grievous loss at Cambridge, no less

Ithan the loss of Airy, who is going to replace Pond at Greenwich.
   have no doubt that he will make Greenwich much the best

Iobservatory in the world, but in the mean time what is to become
of us and of the undulatory theory?     hope some arrangement

may be made by which Airy may continue to lecture at Cam

bridge, at least for some years; but nothing can prevent his

Ideparture being a great calamity to us. He does not go imme
diately; but     believe the matter is settled as to essentials.

You lose nothing by not having my book with you, for there is

        I
                I is

                                  a
                                       it,

                                             I
                                             II

                                                          I
only part of Normandy in and nothing south of that.          have

seen prints of the buildings you mention, but will look at them.

again.  am glad to find you have found such objects inter

esting to you.

Gay Lussac       in London at present, ordering steam engines

to be employed in  communication between Marseilles and

Constantinople.  have not seen him, and am told that he

does not intend to be at Dublin at the meeting.  am going to

try to see Poisson's book about heat to-day, as have to make

a report on that subject among others.

Sedgwick was to have gone to Ireland with Murchison and

me, but has had to change his plan in consequence of a very

                      REV. R. JONES. 1835.                219

melancholy event--the sudden death of his brother's wife while
her husband was among the amusements of our installation.

IHe, poor man, was quite stunned by the blow, and Sedgwick

is gone home with him. Perhaps shall hear from you at

Dublin. In the mean time a pleasant tour to you.

                                             Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                          16, SUFFOLK Sr., Monday, July 20, 1835.

   MY DEAR JONES,

   IAs to the important matter of my autograph,       suppose

it is happily terminated already, the universal Mr Magrath having
Imade me write my name for the purpose the other day.
                                                                   am

still here, having staid to finish my preface to Mackintosh, which
I Ihave just done.
                      should have liked much to shew it to you,
I Iall inert critic as you are, but do not know whether can
I Imanage to do so, as want to have it off my hands before set
Ioff for Ireland, which intend to do to-morrow or next day.
IYesterday in the Athenaeum saw a German-looking man, and

charged him with being Von Raumer, which he forthwith con

fessed to. He told me that he had sent the new edition of his

little book to Hayward--for you--for me. This circuit of com
Imunication has not been completed, and have not seen Hayward,
Iso that do not know whether it is broken at you or him.
I Iwish had seen the book, for Von Raumer tells me that he
Ihas given his judgment of Bentham in the new edition.
                                                        hardly

know how you are to send it me if you have got
                              I                 as shall
                                                     it,
                                               I
probably be gone before arrives; but will thank you to try.
                        it
Send here to-morrow (always supposing you have it), and asit

  shall probably not depart till Wednesday shall receive it;
I                             of

       if it                     is

                  it                     I
                                              I

                                                                                 1,
                                                                                    a
and, not, will stay here. There lying here for you Cathcart's

translation of Savigny's History the Roman Law, Vol.               and

a  missive from the Statistical Society. The latter have taken

the liberty to open, and      turns out to be a summons to

meeting on Wednesday next, "to consider the Report to be

drawn up for the information of the British Association." If

I  were sure you would come here on Tuesday or Wednesday,

220     -            SIR e. B. AIRY. 1835.

I would put off my journey till Thursday, but with such disposi
I Itions as you talk of imagine there is no chance of that.
Ivery glad to hear that you work with so much zest.                                      am

                                                                                  have a

great belief in the merit of anything so produced; but pray,

it                                       do not let interfere

                                  I
                                       I is,

                                                                              it
good as your project of Indian lectures

with your book. You must get that out, and then, you know,

will be working while you are abed.      am sorry to hear that

you are out of order--pray get your leg into reasonable trim

with as little physic as possible.       am glad Mrs Jones                               is

coming back to take care of` you. My letter will reach you

just in time to meet her with kindest regards.

       have been imprisoned in Mrs Mould's black back room for
is

 I

                 it
the last three days writing my Preface. Dr Holland volunteered

to overhaul          for me, which was glad of, for                    well to be
                         I
                            II

                                   I
                                         I

                                                       it

                                                                   is
criticised before publication, especially in a matter which half

London will fancy    it  knows as much of as do, and Holland

an acute man disciplined by much intercourse with the world.

So my papers are now in his hands.       am now going to look

after my tides at the Admiralty, my Trinity House sermon, and

my wind measurer, and when          have set these matters in
        am ofl' for Ireland. If     do not hear from you here,
orderI

write to me at Dublin. You may depend on my being there

till the 17th of August. Adieu.

                                 Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                         TIPPERARY, Aug.                          1835.
     III
MY DEAR AIRY,
                   it

                    I
                                   I
                                               I is

                                                        6,I
             have been meandering about the wilds of Kerry and
dipping myself in Bantry Bay, with so little regard to science
that even allowed my watch to stop, but now, finding myself
approaching Dublin, am collecting my thoughts and considering
how shall conduct myself like a philosopher when arrive

among the wise men. Among other profound ideas bearing upon

that subject,        occurs to me that shall be expected to know

whether you have seen the comet and what your account of

the length of its tail and the weight of its head.   beg therefore

sm 6. B. AIRY. 1835.                                       221

that you Will set me up in these points by sending me a bulletin
Ito Dublin (care of Prof. Lloyd).
                                   hope you have caught the

vagabond and impounded him, so that any man may know where

Ito have him. Another thing, which should be glad to be in

formed, is whether you have any definite plans for magnetic

observations at Greenwich, and whether you want any special

instructions or suggestions from those to whom such things are

Ia care. Sabine and Cap. J. Ross, whom have seen at Limerick,

appear to be taking a great interest in the subject. Ross, in

particular, has been determining intensity, dip, &c. at Limerick

to form what he calls a magnetic base for Ireland, and is full

Iof sorrowful indignation at the lack of English observations.
   think it was supposed to be settled that there were to be in
future magnetic observations at Greenwich, and, if so, it will be

well that the plan should be adjusted so as to suit those who
Iare likely to use them. You see am talking of Greenwich, as
Iif it were certain that you are going there immediately.
                                                           some
Itimes persuade myself that some delay may occur, but this fear
Iis not likely to any material extent.
                                        am as much discontented

as ever at the thought of your leaving us, and have quite satisfied

Imyself that all the reasons are worthless for the change, except
the consideration of not working you too hard.  suppose no

more is known about any Cambridge arrangements, consequent

Ion the change, than was known when left you.
   IWhen had got the din of our installation out of my head,

I felt discontented at having had to go away without bidding

you and your visitors good bye, and without talking a little
Iabout the hubbub after it was over.
                                        heard from Sheepshanks

in London, that Mrs Airy was well again, and that you (but how
I Imany yous did not make out) were gone into Suffolk.
                                                           was
Idetained in London so long that missed Murchison, and have

been rambling about without looking beyond the surface of the

ground. Killarney is pretty, but, except one or two views, seems
to me to gain little by the comparison usually made between

it and the English lakes. There is too much flat or nearly flat

ground about it. Nor are the sea lochs of the Irish coast which

I have seen at all equal, to those of the west coast of Scotland,

222 mm R. JONES. 1835.

I Ibut then
have not seen the best.             am come here from

Limerick in order to see the cathedral at Cashel to-morrow, and,

if possible, an abbey about five miles further off. Next day up

Ithe Shannon with Sabine and Capt. Ross. Give my kind re
gards to Mrs Airy.  hope to find you still far from your de
Iparture when return to Cambridge.

                    Alwaystruly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                   Mmcun, Smeo, Aug. 21, 1835.

MY DEAR JONES,

    IYou have, suppose, received a letter of mine written from

Dublin in some discontent at the thought that you had pro

crastinated so long in giving me your opinion of my preface

Ithat should not be able to write to the publisher from Dublin.

I IIndeed this happened, for after the first day the bustle became
so unremitting that could attend to nothing else.  was very

glad however to receive your criticism a day or two afterwards.

IBut am rather puzzled with what you say. There is nothing

in the Dissertation or in my preface, which appears to me to be an

attempt to establish a parallel between the moral sense and our

physical senses. That our moral judgments belong to a peculiar

faculty indeed, and cannot be resolved into judgments concerning

mere pleasure and pain, is Mackintosh's opinion and mine, but

Iis far from new. The arguments which have given in favour

of this opinion are put in my own way rather than his, and were

intended to be the main value of the essay; for in the part about

Iselfishness have done little but try to arrange the arguments

given by preceding writers; and the main use of that division

of my subject is to shew that we must grant motives which go

beyond personal gratification, and thus to prepare the way for

the establishment of a sense of duty as a motive. Mackintosh's

Ianalysis of conscience do not entirely assent to or ascribe much
Iimportance to, and would say the same of the corollaries he
I Ideduces from his theory; but thought that had explained
Ithat part of the subject in such a way that must appear
Ionly an expositor. Indeed throughout am far from considering

                REV. R. JONES. 1835.                               223

Mackintosh's view as containing the whole truth; but that is

to be remedied only by writing a new treatise. The great merit

of the book in my eyes is that it corrects some prevalent errors;

Iand certainly hoped that the arguments against the utilitarian
Iview were likely to produce some effect. However, do not
Iknow that can mend them; so they must go to press as they

are. As to the passage about Bentham's treatment of the ancient

Iand modern philosophers, you may leave it in its place; shall
Iprobably strike it out when see
                it,               as have outgrown my fancy

                              I it,
                                  I
for in great measure; but you do not give me your own
I           Ia
        it
judgment about and therefore am no nearer decision than
                                             a
was.
                                                    I
Send the MS. to Adam Black, Publisher, Edinburgh. As

soon as foresee when shall be stationary for a week, will
                I
                       I
write and tell him-to send me the proofs. Probably this will

be in London or Cambridge, for am disposed to return as soon

as can and try to do some work. Our Dublin meeting went
it I I
off very well. The trial of the vitality of the thing will be the

next meeting, which to be at Bristol.
                is

                       I
            grieve very much at what you say about the intended

abolition of your College.        hoped the storm would blow

over. Some daylight may still break through it. Do not let

disturb the progress of your book. My kind regards to Mrs

Jones.

                Adieu, yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                       CAPEL Guam, Sept.  1835.
        a
MY DEAR JONES,a is

                         it

                       I
                             I

                                                                a

                                            I
                                                      1,I
            It perfectly true that am here, at the foot of that very

Moel Shiabod on which you sprained your ankle about seven years

ago and mended  by some Opera Dancer's recipe; and after

climbing to the top of Snowdon by much finer path than we took,

and with day a good deal better, though still by no means so

bright and brilliant as could have desired.  thought could

spare day to retouch my recollections of the places we visited

together. Some of them are marvellously changcd. The road

224 am. a. JONES. 1835.

between Capel Curig and Llanberi's, which was then hardly
passable, is now a road as good as the Simplon, traversed by four
coaches daily: and besides the inn where we had the bottle Of

port which excited your enthusiasm, there                close to Dolbadern
                                       I
castle, an enormous hotel with three sides of building and three
                                           it
stories, an establishment of eight chambermaids, a separate stable
                                            is I
court, handsome carriages standing and liveried coachmen loungI I is,

ing before it, and everything as unlike as may be to the ancient

days.

To-morrow go on towards London, and shall be there about
         I
              II
Friday.  have directed Black to send me the proof sheets of my

preface, which suppose you have sent him.                told you was
                                                             it I
puzzled by your saying that Mackintosh and between us had

tried to make out parallel between the moral sense, as has
                  a

been called, and the physical senses.  have been trying to make

out any passages which you might think to have this aspect, and

only two occur to me. In one passage       said that must beit

expected to be difficult matter to make out whether our moral
         a

judgments are peculiar perceptions or are capable of being resolved

into others, since even in the senses, as for instance, that of sight,
Ifthe same difficulty occurs.
                               this be what you mean, might
                                                         is

                                                           I
perhaps remove all ambiguity by saying this.---" It difficult to

shew clearly of any judgments that they do, or do not, depend

on a peculiar faculty; for instance    has been maintained that
                                       it

                                                     is
we have a peculiar faculty by which we judge of beauty, and

that our perceptions of the beautiful, and its reverse, cannot be

resolved into any other perceptions (this                Brown's doctrine);

while on the other hand many eminent writers have attempted

to make such a resolution. All these attempts are declared

unsatisfactory and hopeless by the most recent writers. And even

in the physical senses the same difficulty occurs. It cannot be

considered as yet established to the satisfaction of readers in

general whether we can or cannot see figure." Surely this not
                                                              is

attempting such parallel as you mention, but only guarding
                  a

against a hasty and confident rejection of the trouble requisite

to a discussion of the question. Again,  a it            said somewhere in

                                              is
the preface that the moral sense implies memory of our judg

                      REv. R. JONES. 1835. .                                                                                                 225

ments and a power of anticipating what they will be in given

cases, as the other senses imply such powers. This was said in

Iconsequence of some absurd quibbling of Mill's, to which will

not refer more distinctly, in which he says that the judgments

of which Mackintosh speaks, being judgments Of past actions

or dispositions, cannot direct future actions. If this be what you

mean, it will not be difficult to avoid the implication which you
Ispeak of, and which should not have expected anyone to collect
Ifrom the words. You see want to get something definite in
Ithe way of criticism, and then can make it useful. Write to
Ime at the Athenaeum, if you write before Saturday.
                                                       shall get
Ito Cambridge as soon as can, for my book haunts me, and
I Ishall have no peace of soul till am at work at it again.
I have almost resolved not to leave Cambridge again, except
Iso far as is necessary, till have it in the press; for it pursues

me like the image of a mistress, and everything brings it to

                                   that shall never rest till
I
   I

                                                               is,

                                          I

                                                                                                                                      ,

                                                        I
my mind. The only difference

have parted with it.

hope you go on writing your book. That must be the best

plan on all accounts and whatever betide, besides which cannot

understand how you can reconcile yourself to the enormity of

imprisoning your full grown truths any longer. They have plenty

of muscle and only want feathers.

My regards to Mrs Jones.

                              Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                          Tam. COLL. CAMERrDeE, Sept.    1835.
                                               is
MY DEAR JONES,
                                                  I,
   am grieved to find that you are out of health and out
II                                                  9,I
of heart, and hardly know how to dispose of my anger towards

you, for have been irate and am still rather so.                                                                                         believe

the best way of getting through my ire will be to tell you

of it. You must know,  I      think, as well as        that such

general criticisms as you have sent me can be of no use.

If you had pointed out any passages to which your remarks

apply, might have profited by them, and this precisely what
I

w. II.                                                                                                                                   15

226 PROF. J. PHILLIPS. 1835.

I wanted you to do. Without this, such warnings can only

torment a poor author, if he pays any attention at all to them.

It was for this purpose that in my letter from Capel Curig

I I(which suppose you got) had referred to the only two passages
I could think of as giving room for one of your objections.
I begged to know whether, in what you said, you meant those

Ipassages; and of this request you take no notice. Another of

your objections, which also replied to, you repeat in your last

letter in the same vague and useless way.
   I am the more vexed at this, because, for my own part,
I consider this mutual criticism one of the important offices of
Ifriendship between people who happen to publish.
                                                                          have always

given my best thoughts and care to               not only for my moreas I I
                                                      it,
intimate friends, but even for slighter acquaintances, whenever
                                                                      is
it  was asked. And the subject being one on which you have

thought much, on which a critic with such a qualification not
                                                                          I
easy to find, and on whicha                      little good advice may save aI is
                             a
great deal of misapprehension in general readers,                            certainly

thought might depend upon you.
         I
              I
                   II
    Every evil has some remedial circumstance; and while find

that other persons have not the same impressions with myself

of this obligation,     grow more confident in my own power of

judging my own productions; and as have never cared much

about immediate success as an author, can bear to trust to

myself when find        must do so. And there                             I  leave that

matter.

                     a

                            Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                            Tam. Conn. CAMBRIDGE, Oct.                    2,I[1835].

    DEAR PHILLIPS,

         send you statement of the purport of what said in
I
       if it I

                        a
                                   a

                                             it
the geological section, and, as may save you trouble in copying,

send on separate sheet, taking for granted you will charge

the Association with the double postage. You may abridge my

account  you find you can do so, and             if  you are pressed for

                     M. QUETELET. 1835.                                                                                                227

Iroom; or, if you find it necessary, you have my permission to
omit it altogether.     will write to Quetelet and tell him that

he is to appear in our Transactions. Of course he will be allowed

Ia certain number of separate copies, about which will ask his

instructions and communicate them to you.
      I am glad Willis has set you a thinking and scheming for
Ithe benefit of Gothic architecture.
                                      have by me a plan for
I' the tabulation of diversities, which drew up with a good deal
 Iof thought some time back, but have never published and  it,

I  do not know that shall.III  begin to think  I it     both oflicious
                 I                                  is

and unprofitable to draw up plans and to expect other people

to work upon them, and shall hesitate about proposing any

more plans of notation and nomenclature, till have got some

body of information which can communicate by means of them.

It in that way only that systems of names and notes make
    is
themselves generally known and used.        shall be glad to see
     if                           I
                                       I
your system of geological representation, and should be very

glad     you or any geologist would try to arrange      a  system of

colours, upon such principles as      suggested, or any others

which are coherent. Any one who would publish good geology

in such form would be sure to gain disciples, for people woulda.

be able to read his maps by the eye, instead of having to spell

them out by the dictionary in the margin. Believe me,

                            Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

     When you write again, tell   me what number of separate
copies are allowed to Reporters,   and how soon you expect to
be able to publish.

                        [To M. Quetelet.1v

                            Tnmrrv CoLLEcE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 1835.
I
      it IMY DEAR SIR,

                       I
                                         I

                                                                         it
                                                                                                                                   2,

                                                                                       it
         regretted very much that you were not able to join

our meeting at Dublin.      did not receive your report on Belgian

Science till my return from Ireland, when found at Cambridge.

sent to the Secretary, and am informed by him that will

                                                        15--?

228 M. QUETELET. 1835.

be printed in French in the volume of our Transactions which
Iis now in the press.
                        read it with great interest, and did not

think it at all too long. The views are presented in a striking

and rapid manner, which keeps up the attention. When it is

Iprinted, believe the rules of the Association allow you a certain

I Inumber of separate copies of the .Report (I forget how many).
   shall be glad to have your directions how shall dispose of

them; probably you will wish the greater part of them to be sent

to you. You will see in the Philosophical Magazine the official

account of a part of our Proceedings ; when the account is complete

it will be sent to the members. The Transactions will appear

Ias a separate publication. Some of our miscellaneous periodicals

have also given an account of the Dublin meeting, and send

you a few numbers of the Athenazum, in which you will find

our history. Upon the whole the meeting was a very good one,

especially in our section (General Physics); we meet next year

Iat Bristol, which, being the first place of meeting which is not

a University, is a new experiment, but have no doubt of its

success.

   I am much obliged by your exertions with respect to my
ITide Observations. When was last in London, a month ago,

none of the foreign observations had been received at the Ad

miralty, except those from Holland and Spain, both sets
Iapparently excellent.
                        shall be at the Admiralty next week,

Iand hope to find the Belgian Observations.
        received your work "L'Homme" with great pleasure, both

as a mark of your kindness, and for the interest of the work

itself. Your researches are as curious and interesting as any

thing expressed by means of numbers can be. The Statistical

Section of the Association met at Dublin, and had some important

Ipapers, but was not able to attend their sittings. The Statistical

Society in London was engaged before the meeting in drawing

Iup a large collection of questions for circulation. They will,
   have no doubt, obtain a great deal of information, but my

opinion at present is that they would go on better if they hadv
Isome zealous theorists among them.
                                     am afraid you will think
Ime heterodox, but believe that without this there will be no

              SIR J. w. LUBBOCK. 1835.                               229

zeal in their labour and no connexion in their results. Theories
are not very dangerous, even when they are false (except when
they are applied to practice), for the facts collected and expressed
in the language of a bad theory may be translated into the

language of a better when people get it; but unconnected facts

are of comparatively small value.

              THIN. COLL. Gmnnrnen, Oct. 30, 1835.

   MY DEAR LUBBOCK,

      I have spoken to Peacock on the subjects to which your
Iletter refers, and both he and think that Hamilton's Conical

Refraction appears the most promising paper for the medal. He,

Jhowever, speaks of giving the subject further attention, and

intends to get errard's papers and read them again carefully.

At the meeting at Dublin a sum of money was voted to Sir

William Hamilton to employ in procuring calculations to be

made in order to test the application of Jerrard's method in

particular cases, as the best way of ascertaining the value of it.
I'Till the result of this examination appears, think it would be
Ihasty to give our decision upon it.
                                      will look at Hamilton's
I Imemoir again, and will see Murphy as soon as can.
Iprobably be at the first meeting next month.                        shall

                                               will come if

possible. Peacock says that he knows nothing of the Duke's

intentions`.
I have been working at your results of the Liverpool tides,
Iand have, think, got the lunar inequalities into very pretty
Iorder.
         cannot get any satisfaction about the solar inequalities,

and have no confidence in any thing we have yet done about

them. In order that you may see my grounds for mistrusting
Iour previous modes of proceeding on this subject,
                                                                     send you
Isome leaves of the draft of my paper, which will thank you
Ito return.
              am persuaded that you will have to alter your

solari correction for the London tides, and should expect that

your Tables would be improved by leaving it out altogether.

Since we have got the correction for lunar declination and parallax

              1 The Duke of Sussex, President of the Royal Society.

230 REV. R. JONES. 1835.

Iwith a considerable degree of exactness, do not doubt that we

might obtain the solar correction by correcting the tides for

the moon's effect, and then tabulating the residual quantities
Iwith reference to the sun.
                             propose therefore that in the

. recalculation of the Liverpool tides, which Stratford is going to

undertake, the solar correction be altogether omitted. The errors

will then enable us to get this correction, or at least ofi'er the
Ibest promise of it.
                      hope you will agree with me in this, and

shall be glad to hear what you think of these views. Believe me,

                      Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                      Tam. Conn. CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 11, 1835.

MY DEAR JONES,               \

                aaaa

      I had a note from Drinkwater` with a translation of a
IGerman play, which suppose he has executed to shew that he
Iis not overworked.
                      receive it with great joy as a symptom
I Iof vitality, and dare say shall find that he has made the
IJungfrau talk in a very pertinent way when have time to read
Iit. At present am somewhat overwhelmed with tutor work,
Iand have besides a great tide-paper on the stocks, which is to

be a considerable advance on all that we have yet done. All
Ithis smothers the Induction, and have not been able to do a
Istitch at it all the term. Still am trying to struggle into
Idaylight.
            have almost resolved not to interrupt myself in
I I Iany way can help, till am ready for the press, and then may,
I Ithink, finish in about a year. Of course
                                             cannot cast off
I Ituition and tides, but must allow myself no holidays. If could
Ibring my work to Brighton, should like very well to come
Iand work with you there, but do not think that will be

possible.

                #- er at a

                             Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

    1 Mr Drinkwater afterwards took the name of Bethune. In 1848 he went to

India as a member of the Supreme Council. See De Morgan's Preface to the
Treatise on Problems of Maxima and M inima...by Bamehundra.

              MR RICKMAN. 1836.              231

              [To Mr Hickman]

              Tam. Conn, Jan. 7th, 1836.

MY DEAR SIR,
      I Iwas glad to hear from you, as always am, and shouldbe

Ihappy if could give you any useful information on the points on
I Iwhich you ask it.
              am not sure that shall be able to do this,
Ifor on many of the details which you mention have not formed

any opinion of my own, and do not know what the opinions of

others are. And there is another difficulty, which it is best to

I Istate distinctly. Of course, if were to tell you what think as

to the questions on which you are in doubt, my judgment could

go for no more than the opinion of a private person, which may

be bad or good, but which could not be a sufficient ground for

Iyour acting, and still less could be quoted, or in any way referred
to, in justifying or explaining your plans.  may go further, and
Isay that know, from circumstances which have recently occurred

in another case, that any suspicion that an individual had taken

upon himself to ofl'er suggestions to an architect, employed in

preparing designs for the University, would produce great dis

approbation and indignation, which might be prejudicial to both
                                                                                '

parties.

   I tell you this, merely in order to shew the caution with which
I am obliged to give my views, and not at all with any wish to

avoid answering any enquiries, so far as they regard my own judg

Iment of what is best. But conceive that, this being the state of

things, all additional instructions as to details, like those to which

most of your enquiries refer, cannot be obtained in any useful

Ifway but by application to more official persons than myself.

the Vice-Chancellor were applied to on such points, he might get

the Syndicate together and consult them on the propriety of such

additional instructions. With respect to the rate of increase of

Ithe library, which is certainly an important point, think the

best way would be to write to the librarian, Lodge, who is the

Ibest authority on these heads, and would, suppose, feel no diffi

culty in replying to that or any other essential questions respecting

232 . MR RICKMAN. 1836.

Ithe accommodation wanted for the library.                       believe the annual

rate of increase is 4000 or 5000 volumes.

   IAs to the general bearing of your enquiries, should be dis

posed to say this: If a design proposed provided for the imme

diate erection of considerable additions to the library, and two or

three museums (the Woodwardian to be one); and if it admitted
in the sequel of turning to similar account (library, museums, and

lecture-rooms) the remainder of the old court of King's, it would
be no objection, 'in my eyes, that it was defective in the provisions

Ifor removing the existing facade of the library, and putting a

better in its stead `. For consider the increase of our accommo

Idation to be the main point, and no longer look upon the

removal of the existing front as a necessary condition, or think of
Iit as a thing which will certainly happen.
                                                                 believe that several

other persons think with me, and that the re-issuing the instruc

tions to architects with so little alteration, and the informing the
architects that the old plan was resumed, was a step adopted

principally to avoid the difficulties which would have encumbered

any other course of action.

     But then you must consider, on the other side, that the in

structions require a design for an entire new building, and that, if

the design does not come to us in this form, the Syndicate, which

will have to report upon may very possibly report that does
I                                                                Ia
                                      it,
                                               it                       it
not fulfil the conditions; and then would be of no avail that                  a it
                                                                                      it
was approved of, even by a majority of the University.

believe the main reason for fixing originally so short time

for the architects to prepare their designs was, that was sup
posed they would send in their former designs without any fun
damental modifications. But this was merely conjecture, as

conceive, and by no means condition. Still, imagine that
I aI
   1I

                    it

                 I
                                                              a
change so great as the substitution of a Gothic for a Grecian

design would be an unfavourable circumstance to begin with.

do not say might not be got over.

am afraid have not helped you much by my explanation,

        For an account of all the  transactions connected with the building of the
                                    Mr Bashforth's pamphlet should be consulted:
University Library at Cambridge,
see Vol. 1. page 58.

         SIR J. F. w. HERsoHEL. 1836.                                                                         233

and it is easy to see that, with the difference of opinion which

will probably arise in the University as to the object and the

II
                    I it,

                                                                                             a
means of accomplishing  the problem must be very perplexing

one for the architect.  have stated my own views, which must,

as have said, be looked upon as strictly my own, and as pos_

sessing no authority whatever.
         hope your health continues good. The best wishes of the

New Year to you and Mrs Rickman.

         Believe me, my dear Sir,

                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                        THIN. COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, April                                                       1836.
                                                                                                it
MY DEAR HERSCHEL,                                                                                         9,

I        do not know    if      appears to you, as                                              appears to
     aI                     it

me, longer time than usual since wrote to you. There have
                                I
been various causes of this; but having just got your letter to
                                       if
Dr Adamson, which have read with great interest, will give
         II                             I                                                       I

you one or two of the reflexions which occur to me upon it. To

begin, after our ancient fashion of disputatiousness, with the

points on which we differ, am inclined to think that you dispose
                        I

rather too lightly of the ancient languages, as instruments of

giving a philosophical civilization to the mind; or rather perhaps

   ought to say, that should think this, your scheme were pro
posed as one for European education. For am fully persuaded

thatlthe study of the Greek and Latin authors, in their original

mode of presenting themselves, can never cease to be an essential

part of the liberal education of the present age, till the habits of

thought and taste, of intellectual analysis and imaginative enjoy

ment, of the age cease to depend in an esssential degree upon that

which we have, through various channels, near and remote, direct

and tortuous, derived from them; and this am quite sure will
                                I

never be. To suppose that man will ever become, in these re

spects, independent of the history and antiquities of literature,

seems to me to be equivalent to supposing that he will cease to

keep his footing in the path of intellectual progression, of ad

vancing civilization, of the mind and feelings, which began with

234 SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1836.

Ithe philosophical and poetical age of Greece. It must, think,

always be the peculiar character of a liberal and intellectual edu

cation, that it leads people to seek and find grounds and reasons

for the tacit assumptions, rules, and methods, which are diffused

Iand accepted wherever literature, in the best sense of the term,

is cultivated. And this process in education nothing, am con

vinced, can supply, except a study of literary antiquity.

So much for my criticism; to which, after all, you would pro

bably not be far from assenting. There are other things in your
I Iletter where go along With you still more decidedly.
                                                           am quite

delighted to find that the ancient subject of our earlier liking,

the Inductive Method of Philosophising, is still so prominent an
Iobject of your affection; although, in truth, needed no new evi
Idence- of this.
                  have always doubted, however, whether Bacon's

book could now do much more than inspirit its readers with an

Iadmiration of the dignity and vigour which the prosecution of this
object infuses into the mind.  do not think it complete and

Imethodical enough to teach much to students; and it is clear,
  think, that it requires both to be accommodated to the present

state of thought and knowledge, and to have its vast vacuities

Igradually supplied. You have done no little yourself towards this

object; but still think that much remains to do; some part of

Iwhich, from what you have sometimes said, still expect from
Iyou. In the mean time am myself working in the same career;

and hope, in no long time, to be able to offer you some contri

butions. My first must be a sort of survey of the History of

Inductive (Physical) Philosophy up to the present time; to cor

respond, as to its place in the development of the subject, with

IBacon's Advancement of Learning. This expect to finish in a
Ifew months, and then shall print forthwith; so that, except you
Isweep up your stars very speedily and come home, shall have to
Isend it you.
               do not know how you manage to carry on so many
Ispeculations at once; but for my own part begin to find that
I have set myself a task, which is hardly consistent with my other

employments here ; and as it appears that the reform of our Phi

Ilosophy is the work to which have the strongest vocation, and
I I Iwhich cannot give up if were to try, have very serious

             SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1836.  235

thoughts of resigning my share in the active business of the

College, and of giving the rest of my life to the formation and

exposition of a Philosophy and Logic such as we ought to have.

I shall do this with some regrets; not only from long habits of
I Ikindly and grateful association, but also because think per

ceive that any improvement in our academical studies (and of
course a reform of philosophy ought to improve them) may be in

troduced with greater advantage by a person actively engaged

Iin them than by an insulated spectator. But have tried for
Iseveral years, and cannot combine these two employments to
Imy own satisfaction; and think it is more wise and right to
Itransfer to other bands occupations, which am conscious of being
Iunfit for, and duties, which discharge imperfectly, than to go on

with an impossible struggle, and to endanger the attainment of a

great object (you know how we imaginary Bacons talk), which
I Ifeel considerable confidence
                                 can materially contribute to.
I have not quite worked myself into such a condition, with regard

to worldly affairs, as to make this a very prudential course, but at

I Ithe same time believe shall be able to manage it without any

Iinconvenience which may not-reasonably be incurred for such an
object. So in a year or two   expect to be a philosopher and

nothing else.                 IWhen talk of giving the rest of
     So much for philosophy.

my life to      always reserve to myself the tides, as corner of
   I                             I
          I iIt,                      I

                                                   is
                                                                  a

                                                         I
physics which shall go on and work at, till all done that can

do. have made so much progress that have great hopes

I  shall leave that subject in a condition very different from that

in which found it. One reason why have not written to you
       I

sooner has been that have been looking forwards to the time
                       I

when should work up the observations you made for me last
     II
June.       have good observations all along the coasts of Europe

from the North Cape to the Straits of Gibraltar, and these are

now undergoing reduction; yours among the rest. The results

will be very curious.  I  have also long series of observations at

London, Liverpool, and Bristol, which give very interesting laws

with reference to the theory; but these will tell you of at some
                                 I

other time.

236 srn R. I. MURCHISON. 1836.

IIn the last letter had from you you augured that the

Ministry, that now would be likely to continue the existence of
       is
                                 is,
the East India College, where Jones so happily placed.                   fear
                                               is       I

this too good to be true. They expect to be dissolved, and atI

any rate the Government have refused to make his appointment

permanent. In the mean time he employs himself rather with

public matters (drawing Tithe Bills and the like) than with his

theories, which hold                  it       his duty, under any circumstances, to
           I
                                           is

complete and publish.                 I  often see him, and we never fail to talk

of you. From some things which you say, have strong hopes

that your return not far distant; the sooner the better, for, withis

out any disparagement to the world at large, we want such people

as you in England.

I       hope Lady Herschel and all your young things are well.
   I
shall be quite delighted to see what effect an African sun and

the habit of standing at right angles to us (to say nothing of seve
ral years of time) have produced in their appearance and figure.

                    Believe me, dear Herschel,

                                      Affectionately yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                               TRIN. Conn, Ap. 23,1836.

MY DEAR MURCHISON,

           My friend M. Rio, a French literary man, was admitted as

foreign member of the Athenseum three years ago, when he was
a
in London for a short time. He desirous of obtaining the same
    it                                I
                                                I is

                                                                                      is
                                                                                          is

                                                                                                          is,
                                                                                                               is
privilege again; and, as his former friend, Sir John Malcolm,

gone, he has begged me to try to make him a new friend who will

render him the same service, and do not know any one who can

do better than you.                   suppose an application to the committee

will produce the effect with little trouble. Rio worthy of the

distinction, being a person of great learning, eloquence, and ac

complishments. He was Professor of History in the University of
Paris before the " three days"; and, refusing to take the oaths to

the new government, was stripped of his appointment. He in

fact,   a  high rOyalist and catholic. ,_ After travelling in Italy,

where he studied the history of painting, on which he publish

         REV. w. VERNON HARCOURT. 1836.  4 237

Jing a very striking work, he came to England, and married a

Miss ones, of Llanarth Court near Monmouth, a catholic family,
one of the oldest Silurian specimens; so you see he belongs to you

by right.

   I shall be glad if you can render him this service, as he is an

excellent fellow, and a great friend of Sedgwick's and mine.
                               a s s at

                 TRINITY COLL., CAMBRIDGE, May 27, 1836.

   DEAR HARCOURT,

      IThere are some points which should like to urge at the
Inext meeting of the British Association at Bristol, and should

be glad to know your opinion about them beforehand. There is a

man there, by name Bunt, who has been working very hard at the

Tides with a view to constructing Tide Tables; and has become

so much fascinated with the subject, that he has given more time

to it than will be repaid him by any return he is likely to get.

His results appear to me to be valuable as an addition to our

Iknowledge of the subject, and should wish to propose to pur
                                                                                                                                                                                `

chase his calculations from him, or in` some other way to make

him some recompense. He is likely to go on with the subject,
IIfand to do more than he has yet done.
                                         were authorized to

employ a certain sum upon him, it would be exactly what Lubbock

has done in the case of Dessiou.

Another matter connected with the tides is the execution of

our ancient scheme of fixing the relation of land and water, at

least at one or two points. The observations of tides at Liverpool

and Bristol have been so multiplied and so well analysed, that the

position of the measuring scales, with regard to the sea level at

Ithose places, may be considered as very exactly determined.
   would therefore propose that these scales should be well con

nected with the natural features of the country in some clear and

permanent manner, so as to afford a point of comparison in future
Itimes.
         think this is the only way of executing the scheme, for

merly recommended, of ascertaining the permanence of the level of

land and water.

238 REV. w. VERNON HARCOURT. 1836.

     Nothing has been done respecting the Antarctic magnetic ex

pedition. At one period Capt. Beaufort, the Hydrographer, sent

me a message that there was a ship which we might possibly have

Iif we asked for it. But found that there was no chance of this,

and that, if sent at all, it would go to the north, as it has done.

I found also that nobody, except Murchison, came to the meeting
Iof the committee held on this subject, so that thought it better

to wait, than to urge the point weakly and inefl'ectually. Next
Iyear, with Sabine's Report in circulation, we shall have, hope, a
                i
better chance.
I have not yet heard of the time of meeting at Bristol, though
Iit is now late for it to remain uncertain.
Iis ill, which regret very much.                         hear too that Phillips

There is an election to take place soon, in which the Archbishop

Iof York is an elector (one of four), and in which we Cambridge

men are somewhat concerned; mean the Mastership of Downing

College. Of the candidates, Starkiel, though in other respects an

Iexcellent man, would, think, be objectionable as a non-resident

lawyer; Dawes has taken a living, which would also take him

away. VVorsley as appears to me, a candidate every way unex
                   is,

                       I

                                   is
                                                      a
ceptionable; and being a person of very conciliating character,

very great accomplishments, and very desirous of making the

College more effective for the purposes of good education than  it

has yet been, he would, think, he great gain to us. There are

few persons of whose religious principles and right intentions
  think so highly, and he a very general favourite both for his
I
literary and conversational endowments. You will not think me
   1I
superfluous in saying so much, for, of course, must be the wish
                                                         I it
of the electors to choose the person most likely to manage the

College well; and you can communicate what have said to the

Archbishop, or not, as you think best.

       shall be in London soon, where may perhaps meet you.
                                  I

                   Believe me, dear Harcourt,

                   Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

       Mr Starkie, senior wrangler in 1803, was Downing Professor of Law; Mr
Dawes, fourth wrangler in 1817, afterwards became Dean of Hereford.

    PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1836.                                2'39

                        Tarn. Conn, CAMBRmcE, May 28, 1836.

    MY DEAR FORBES,

        I Iought to have written to you long ago, but have been

  more than usually busy; among other causes, from the illness of
  Ione of my assistant lecturers.
                                   read with great interest your ac

  count of the eclipse, as did Airy, who was here at the time. He
  has been giving us a parting course of lectures, which, with some

  difficulty, we persuaded the Lords of the Admiralty to allow, and

  has just left us; leaving the impression of our loss in him stronger

  Ithan ever. Challis, however, buckles to his work with great zeal

  and courage, and have no doubt will work the Observatory well.
  IHe gives Plumian lectures for the future.
                                              was much interested

  by your account of your optical experiments on the eclipse; al

  though, in truth, Brewster's conjecture appeared to me so arbi
  Itrary that never attached any importance to it.
    I thought Chevallier's answer to your "philosopher" well
  Ienough, but rather too hot.
                                   cannot set to work with that

  I Isubject in special at present, but it will find its place in a book

  which hope to write by and 'bye, and which am ashamed to

  find growing in its scheme larger and larger. It is partly in con

  Isequence of this scheme that cannot yet speak very positively
  Iabout my visit to Scotland this year; for want, if possible, to
  Iexecute a definite portion of my task before go a gadding, and

  I have not been able to write a sentence for some months on ac
  Icount of other employments. Among the rest, have had a large

  paper on the Tides to write, the result of observations made all

  over Europe last June, which appears to me to be curious and im
  I Iportant. However, have now nearly finished this, and think a
  Imonth of leisure, if can find will take me through the work
    Ifhave set myself.  it,

                            I
II  it                  manage this, should like much to visit

  Scotland again in July, taking Edinburgh in my way, you areI
                                                    it
  then there, looking again at some of the noble scenery of the
                                                      if
  West, and working on to Orkney,  iIf  have time. The exact

  period of the meeting at Bristol could not be settled the last time

    met the managers, in consequence of some uncertainty about

Assizes, &c., but appeared to be understood that would be

240                 M. QUETELET. 1836.

I Ilate in August.
                    intend to be there, for want, among other
Ithings, to get some more tide work done.
                                            hope you will come.
I IIf could have travelled north at present, should have been

glad to have joined you in your Highland tour, but that is out of

Ithe question.                              see that Cauchy has

    In reference to the undulatory theory,

been professing to prove, from the theory, the laws of elliptical

Ipolarisation by reflection from metals, as established experimen
tally by Brewster.  am snre you cannot do any thing better for

the credit of your university than give this theory prominence, for

in a few years people will wonder at the slowness of the world in

admitting as they now wonder about gravity.it,

   My Mechanics, new edition, will be ready in week or two.I
                               II
We are at present trying to introduce some mixed mathematicsI

(Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Optics) into the general examinationI
                                           it I

                                                 isI
                                                                       a
                                                                         is
                                                        I
                                                                                                                            a.
for degrees, as recommended; and think shall have to pub--
lish little book, containing about thirty simple propositions
I
     ain Statics, for this purpose.will sendyou, when have

printed it.

      hope you go on polarizing heat.     do not know at present

any subject more promising or interesting. Biot  writing

series of articles about N ewton,'&c. in the Journal des Spavans, in

the way of a review of Flamsteed's letters. He very temperate

and reasonable.  I  have also received from Rigaud some papers

throwing some light on Newton's matters, which hope he will

publish. Brewster's inaccuracies come to view at every turn.

I  will write to you again when know my own movements better.

In the mean time, as always, believe me,

                               Yours truly, WV. \VHEWELL.

                                     [To M. Quetelet.]

                                              TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, May 31st, 1836.

   MY DEAR Sm,

                                       ag

       ...I have been much engaged of late in discussing the

observations of the Tides made last June, and think that have
                    a
                                    a

                                    Ia
                                                 I

        M. QUETELET. 1886.                241

Iobtained some results quite as satisfactory as could expect.
I am just going to communicate these to our Royal Society. The

course of the Tides in the German Ocean in particular appears to

I Ime to be extremely curious, but at the same time think have
Iestablished it beyond all doubt.
                                   am glad to hear you have been

discussing tide observations, but you ought to get calculators to

do all the laborious work. The construction of Tide Tables is

with us undergoing rapid improvement. In particular the calcu

lators of such tables at Liverpool and Bristol are improving them

by introducing the Diurnal Inequality by which the morning

and afternoon tides differ. This inequality is of large amount
Iboth for the heights and the times.
                                      have also with some diffi

culty extricated from the Liverpool Observations the Solar In

Iequality. It is the subject of a memoir which hope to be

able to send you very soon. You have perhaps received my Report

Ion Heat, etc., and you may see there that shall look with

much interest to your thermometrical observations at different

depths.

     The Cambridge Observations for 1835 are delayed by the

reductions of the Observations of the Comet, which were very

numerous, and, we hope, very valuable.
     You are aware that we have now 10st Airy from the Obser

vatory here, and a very grievous loss it is: but his successor,

IChallis, is a zealous and intelligent mathematician, ,so hope

we shall still be able to hold up our heads. The Duke of

Northumberland's large telescope (12 inch object glass) is not yet
mounted, but is making progress. When it is mounted on its
Equatorial Axis it will be one of the finest instruments in the

world. In the mean time Airy is putting the Observatory at

Greenwich in a state of vigorous activity, of which your-astrono

Imers in other countries will, have no doubt, soon see the results.

You have probably seen an account of the recent discovery made
by Forbes respecting the polarization of heat. This appears to

me extremely curious, and shows us that we have not yet done

with the undulatory theory. The bearing of the properties of

crystals upon the laws of heat now becomes an extremely inter

esting and important subject for investigation, for since heat can

w. 11.                                16

242 SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1836.

be polarized, it must be affected in some way or other by its rela

Ition to the axis of crystalline form.
         have to thank you for your Ammaire, both on the part of

our Philosophical Society and on my own.

   IAmong other reforms in the Observatory at Greenwich,

believe it is intended to establish good magnetic observations,

Iand if you have any suggestions to offer on that subject, have no

Idoubt that Airy will be very glad to receive them.       believe
     The British Association meets this year at Bristol,

about the 20th of August. Is there any hope of seeing you
I Ithere?
wish there were, for it is long since we met, and do
Inot think shall travel on the continent this year. With kind

remembrances to Mad. Quetelet,

Believe me, my dear Sir,

Yours very sincerely and faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

                   Umvnnsrrv CLbB, Lennon, June 10, 1836.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

     I I`I should have written you more frequent and orderly letters

than have done of late, but that could not get into order the
tide observations of last June, yours included, so as to see what

they led to. It is wonderful what an immensity of reduction

Ithese things have required, for had observations all the way

from the mouth of the Mississippi to the North Cape of Norway,

Iand have reduced them to as much regularity as possible both

by your favourite method of graphical interpolation, and by taking

means, expending on them a great deal of labour both of my own
and of certain calculators which the Admiralty have given me.

IAt last have got my results and am finishing my paper; and
Ithough will not now trouble you with all my general, inferences,

there are some points which it may be worth while to mention.

It has appeared by the discussion of long series of observations

made at London, Liverpool, Bristol, that the actual tides exhibit

the features of the equilibrium tides, both in the heights and times,

with wonderful fidelity; namely, the semimenstrual inequality,

                    SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1836.                           243

the corrections for lunar declination and parallax, and a solar cor~

rection, and a diurnal inequality. Of course the epochs of these

I Iequilibrium tides are to be determined by observation, and depend
upon what called formerly the age of the tide.         remember that

you did not quite concur in this way of considering the subject,

Iand am not sure that you will not turn out to be right in your
Idoubts. At least there is a very odd difficulty which must

explain to you. The diurnal inequality of the heights is very

marked both on the coasts of America and on the west coast of

Europe. On laying down the heights in means it is strikingly
regular and uniform, but with this difference. In America it

corresponds to the actual declination of the moon, that
                                                       is

                                                             it

                                                                        is,

                                                                      it

                                                                               is
greatest on the day when the moon's declination greatest, and

vanishes when she crosses the equator. But in Europe vanishes

two or three days later, and attains its maximum at about the

same interval. Well--this may be accounted for by supposing

our tide to have day or two of age more than theirs. But then
            is
                         a
how old your Cape tide, which, according to my former specu

lations, was one of the youngest which exists? Why, by this

criterion,  it      as old as that on the coasts of Spain and Portugal.

                is

For, by your observations of the heights at Table Bay, the diurnal

inequality was very strongly marked on the 16th, 17th, 18th of

June, and on the 2nd, 3rd, 4th of July, when the moon was nearly

in the equator. This point appears to me very curious, and

though am loth to give you any trouble, should be very glad
I                                                  II              if
                                                                      it
you could get attended to.                     do not want observations of the
                    it                   is I                          I I is
                                                                                is
times, but of the heights, both day and night, for some time; in                  if

order to see where the moon when the diurnal inequality the

greatest, and when          it       0.  It will be very curious,  really

                                 is

true, that your tide the equilibrium tide of two or three daysis

previous, while the American one that of the very day.is                   have

not been able to use the Simon's Bay observations with reference

to this point, as the night tides were not observed.                       hope

Mr Maclear has received tide-machine.                pressed his application
                            I
on the Admiralty, and was told an order had been given for com--a

plying with it. We are going on so prosperously with our tide

researches here, that am quite greedy of materials which may

                                                                   16---2

244 PROF. J. PHILLIPS. 1836.

Itend to complete our knowledge.  'am not, however, so unreason--

able as to wish to take up your time with it; still less to be

I Iwilling to have you washed off the pier at Cape Town in the ser
vice, as am told happened on the former occasion.  have been

in town for above a week, finishing the account of the observations

Iof last June, and their results; but am impatient to get this
Isubject off my hands, for want to go to Cambridge, and to spend

the halcyon days of the vacation in completing my History Of
IInductive Science, which hope to get into the press soon, and
Iwhich am willing to believe you will like.  I fear it will be a
Ihorrid big book in spite of all
                                  can do.    Jones is so much
Iimmersed in Tithe Billsand the like that can get no general
Iphilosophy out of him at present, but shall try in quieter times,
Iif such ever come. Adieu for the present.
                                             am trying to find

the German pamphlet, John Herschel's Neueste Entdeck-uaqen

Iden Mond und seine Bewohner betrefl'e'nd, that may send it you.

We have had the Airys at Cambridge for 'a month since they

Iwent to Greenwich, which was a great happiness. My kind re- '
gards to Lady H.  am glad to hear from Lyell that you are

all well.

                           Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

                  {To J. Phillips, Esq]

                                  LANOAerR, Aug. 10, 1836.

MY DEAR SIR,

IMy apparatus sent to Bristol consists, presume, of two
Ianemometers of the construction which
                                             described last year.
I have fixed up one at Cambridge, and intend to Offer those two

for the use of two persons who will engage to make careful and

regular observations with them. If you can find persons in

remote parts of England who are likely to do this work well,
I Ishall be much obliged.
                           had no intention of lecturing about
Ithese to the evening audience, nor would the subject, think,
Ibear it.
           have also some notices about the progress of my tide

researches in general, and those respecting Bristol in particular,

Ito give; but these also will not, think, even including the

r ,__,.-__,.`I.P. iv... .-_____ . ________-'.'.p-_m-,M_: ",rm4- ,-.n--r--.m . ..

           PROF. A. SEDGWICK. 1836.                         245

Ilocal interest, be entertaining to the public at large, and in
tended them for Section I. It has always been difficult to fix
Ifupon lecturers for the evening,
                                          Faraday comes to us, as
I Isuppose he will, it would be desirable, think, to get a lecture

out of him, so good a lecturer as he is. His last lecture at the

Institution, on the Nature of the Ultimate Analysis of Bodies

I(or some subject like that), might be well suited to the occasion.
        have written to Mr Greenough proposing that, instead of

a single notch, we shall make a level line of notches all the way

from Bristol to the Land's End, or at least for some considerable

distance, which will settle more than one interesting question.

If you find any engineers or trigonometrical surveyors, ask them

with what accuracy two places forty miles distant can have their

comparative level determined, using as many intermediate sta
Iftions as may be convenient.
                                          this can be done within a foot,
I(as suppose it can), it will be an object worth spending the
IAssociation's money upon.
                            also want to apply for some money

to spend upon the Bristol tides. There is a most zealous and

intelligent calculator, called Bunt, who lives in Smallstreet Court,

Bristol, who has been working at them for some time, and whom

I wish to keep at work.
   I should rather like to bring forward in the_geological section

I Imy plan for colouring geological maps, but fear shall not be

able to work it out, or to exemplify
                                          if a          so as to recommend  if it

properly.                                          it,

I         shall try to visit Bristol for  day, the 15th or 16th, but,
   IIdo not, shall be much obliged         you will secure me tolerany

good lodgings not inconveniently situated.

     am glad to find you are already on the ground. Believe me,

                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                          16 SUFFOLK Sr. Oct. 1836.6,

     MY DEAR SEDGWICK,

            have just seen Murchison who has given _me such notice ofI
your whereabouts as he thinks will enable me to hit you at a

long shot. He tells me that you go on setting the strata of

246 PROF. A. snnewrox. 1836.

Devonshire to rights, which is good; but he tells me that you

Ihave had bad health, which grieve much to hear. Pray take

care of yourself and avoid hard work, bad weather, and Dr

Sedgwick's physio. Consider that the two former cannot be

expected to agree with a rosy prebendary as they did with a.

lean geologist, and that the doctor in question knows too much

of other things to make his prescriptions good for any thing.

I want very much to have your advice and opinion on a point on

which it will have great weight with every body, and with me

will be decisive. Your leading geologists think they see strong

reasons for not taking Buckland for their president next year,

and are at a loss whom to pitch upon. Now it appears to me
that if in this embarrassment they are tempted to turn their eyes

to a person who is not a geologist, and who cannot be supposed,

by any one acquainted with the subject, to have any detailed

geological knowledge, they would lose that eminence and respect

which has hitherto belonged to the office in the geological world

Iof Europe. And if they were likely to do this, think that no

private regards would prevent your giving your opinion against

such a step. The case in short that Murchison and Lyell have
                         it

                             is,
                                        is
proposed the office to me; and the extreme pleasure, which

I  cannot but feel at finding possible that such a proposition

should have entered any body's head, dashed by my own con

sciousness of my want of the qualifications which think are
                                                             III
requisite.  I  am not going to trouble you with disqualifying    I

speeches, nor need tell you,                  think, what           Ithink of the
               I
Society and the Oflice.I
                            it it I

                                                          a
                         hold to be dignity much superior

to that of President of the Royal Society. And want to fortify

myself by your authority, that demands a person more pro

. fessedly and notoriously versed in geology than am.                  should

be very much obliged to you to write me about this as soon as

you can: and you think, as appears to me that you must
            I

                 if
                                          it
think, that am not the proper person for your generalissimo,
you will of course make no scruple of saying so, and will then
                                                             I

put an end to all further thoughts of this scheme. You need not

fear hurting my vanity by telling me that ought not to have
                         I
                                            I
the presidentship; for am quite sufficiently gratified by the

               SIR J. r. w. HERSCHEL. 1836.  247

 opinion which the proposal implies in such men as Murchison

Iand Lyell to need no humouring in the mode of telling me what
    know to be true. So there is my case for you, and now let me
' have your advice.

       There is another matter more connected with the geology of

 the field, on which I have been requested to ask for your opinion,
 and you may send it at the same time. A gentleman in North

 Wales has found lead and copper ores in his estate. The place is
 Pembeddo, a mountain between the village of Penmachno and
 Lynn Conwy, south of the road between Cernioga and Bettws y

 Coed. He wants to know if you can put him in the way of

 finding any one who can examine the place and its produce, and
 give an opinion of the probability of making anything of it.
 He wants to know also whether you think A. Wright of Keswick,

 who has offered his services, and boasts of your good opinion, a

 Ilikely person to execute such a survey to a good purpose.
          am going to Cambridge in a day or two, so write to me
 there as soon as you have leisure. And take good care of your

 self, and come back to us as soon and as well as you can.

                                              Always yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

                         Tam. Coma, CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 4, 1836.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

IIt appears to me a long time since wrote to you, and
I Ithink it is still longer since received a letter from you. During
Ithe summer
               was running about from one part of England
Ito another, and since returned into College, and took to my usual
Iemployments,
               have hardly had time to breathe, having more
Ithan my usual quantity of work on my hands, as will. tell you
by and bye. But first of other matters. All your registers of

the tides came to hand; both your letters and the original
Irecords.
           have made some use of them, and could have made
Imore, if had had intermediate points on the East and West

shores of the Atlantic, to connect your tides with ours; for
I Ithe longer
               attend to the subject, the more cautious
                         I dare not, at present, identify the
become in generalising.

248 _ SIR .r. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1836.

tide which takes place on the coast of N. America with that

which takes place on the coasts of Spain and Portugal at the

Isame instant. For find that their features are different. The

diurnal inequality of the tides happens two or three days later

on the coast of Spain than on that of America. This is briefly

shewn in my memoir, which is to be sent to you along with

Ithis. This same diurnal inequality isa most odd business; and

   should be very glad if you could get me observations made

relating to it either in Table Bay or Simon's Bay. It will not

Ibe very difficult; for do not want the time, but only the

height, of every high water (and low water, if convenient). The
point to be determined is this--How many tides after the moon's

being in the equator does the diurnal inequality vanish? The

differences in different places in this respect are curious and

perplexing, but the dependence of the general course of the

inequality on the moon's declination is clear in all. In some

parts of the Indian Seas (at Singapore), the diurnal inequality
of the heights is very much greater than the difference of spring

and neap tides ; and at some places one tide vanishes altogether

I(King George's Sound, as- well as the old story of Batshan in
Tonquin).  shall be able soon to write a curious memoir on
I Ithis subject. But at present am, as said, very busy with
I Ianother matter.
                  am- printing a book on which have long
Ibeen employed, and which hope you will like. It is a history

of all the physical sciences from the earliest to the most recent

times, from Tubal Cain to Faraday; and as it does not deal in

generalities merely, but is thickly set with quotations from the

original authors of discoveries, you will easily imagine that it
must have cost some labour. It
       iIt I I                   however, only the beginning
               I it
of labours; for
                               is is,
                                                                is,

                                                              a

                                                                            a it
                  and professes to be, only a survey of the

present state of knowledge, in order to learn from the best

method of philosophizing, and the right view of philosophy.

As you have formed and executed  plan of the same kind

yourself, hope you will not be horrified at the rashness of my

plan.      think cannot be mistaken in believing that in most

parts of   have got my subject into its true shape, although

new. The project  one which has been assuming                                   more and

               SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1836.                   249

more definite form, and growing closer to my heart, ever since

our undergraduate days; and few things have encouraged and

animated me more in the execution Of it than your book on the

Study of Natural Philosophy. We shall not, however, have much
ground in common. My scheme is so wide that all the life that

is allotted me will be little enough for carrying it through.

I IStill feel confident that have a large portion of the subject
Iunder my hand. The book am now printing--the History--
I Ishall, hope, be able to send you in February, in three goodly
Ioctavos. They tell me you talk Of returning; which rejoice
Ito hear, but suppose you will hardly make your move before

next summer.        account to give you of Jones, if you have not
                     After doing great service to the ministers and
   I have a good

heard it already.

the bishops by drawing a bill for the Commutation of Tithe in

England and helping to carry it through, he was appointed one

of three Commissioners whom it created with a salary of £1500

a year. As he retains his Haileybury Professorship (at least

for the present), which is £500 more, he is well Offz--is just
Isettling himself in a house in town, and is in great force.
                                                              am

going to stay with him in the Christmas vacation. The only

misfortune  is,that he  less and less likely to write the books

                I
                                is

                           I
he owes the world. He professes that he shall still do much

in that way, but confess doubt it: and doubt with grief,
                                       I
for in certain branches Of Political Economy am persuadedI

he a long way a-head of anybody else, and might give theI
I is
subject a grand shove onwards.

    have been constructing an anemometer to measure the total

quantity of wind which blows in any time, and its direction.

My persuasion  is,  that this mode of measurement gives me what

is  the most important function of the wind in meteorology. The

machine works very well. Green, the balloonist, has Offered his

balloon to the R. S. for experiments.  hope we shall use      ", it
on a grand scale. Perhaps we may come your way. If you

keep a sharp look out, you may see us "hang in the clouds

like Milton's fleet. You will have seen that Green went from

London to Coblenz easily.  I        have no room left to tell you of

250 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1836.

the British Association at Bristol. A letter of yours, written

for Dublin and too late in arriving, was read by Hamilton with

Igreat effect, and delighted everybody.
        hope Lady H. and the children are all well, as they have

Ibeen reported in the most recent accounts of which have any

knowledge. Darwin, who was with Capt. Fitzroy, and who
visited you, is come home. He has made great natural history
collections, and is become an extreme Lyellist in geology. Adieu
for the present. Do not let Lady H. and the children forget
us, and bring them home as soon as you can.

                                           Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

              5, HYDE PARK STREET, Lennon", Dec. 26, 1836.

MY DEAR HARE,

    I think you will not dislike my giving you an opportunity

of making a well-bestowed new-year's present. Perry, like many

other persons, has seen with great pain and grief the destitute
state of Barnwell as to religious instruction; but with more

courage and heart than others, he has set about trying to remedy
it. He has bought the advowson, giving a large sum for that
which is worth nothing; * * * and now he wants to build

a church which may be in some measure nearly adequate to
the necessities of the place. You will see by the list that he

Ihas not spared himself, and think the spirit in which he has

set about his task, as well as the object itself, will induce you

to do for him what you can.
I often wish for you--on other grounds--but especially as a
Iphilologer.
              am in the midst of my second volume in printing,

and have many orthographical and grammatical perplexities

I Iabout which should like much to consult you. Shall write

show or shew; criticise or criticize ; neoplatonic or neoplatonician;

IAlexandrine 01' Alexandrian? But am especially puzzled about

.my title. "A History of Inductive Sciences "--that is too
indefinite. " A History of the Inductive Sciences "--that implies

"all the" and is too presumptuous. " A History of the Principal

IInductive Sciences "----that is too narrow, for though do not

                    PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1837.           251

Iwish to say so, have taken all which are, properly speaking,
Iat present Inductive Sciences.
                                 am mightily embarrassed with

this dilemma.

   I am staying here with Jones, who tells me his Tithe Com

mission is working well. Worsley is in town waiting for the

appeal`, which is not yet lodged, but is to come soon. The delay
of the opposite party, as well as their other proceedings, appear

to me inexcusable.

Have you heard that our Greek Professorship is to be vacated

by the resignation of Scholefieldg, who has got another living,

and that we expect Thirlwall to be a candidate for it? Except

indeed, you will come and live with us half the year teaching

Platonism, and leaving Herstmonceux to other hands for that
Itime.
        shall be here for about a week longer. Then at Norwich

with Sedgwick, and at other places, but always attainable through

Trinity. Adieu;

                             Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

    Can you tell me whether business is Teutonic (byseg, AS.)

or Romance (besogne, bisogna).

                                                                           16, SUFFOLK Sr. Feb. 20, 1837.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

       I do not know whether you are discontented at the long
Iinterval since my writing to you--whether you are or not, am
Iso myself: but must throw the blame on that which of late

has been the cause of a derangement of all my habits--the writing
Iand publishing of my book.
                                 was very much obliged to you
Ifor your remarks on the subject of the sheet which sent you;
I Iand, if ever reach the felicity of a second edition, will try
Iif can express more precisely the facts of the case, without

Igiving more room to the subject, which can hardly afi'ord.

But alas! what book on science in three thick volumes ever
Ireached a second edition? While
                                  was writing my book,
I thought it could not fail to be very entertaining; but now
Ithat. the glow of composition is over, begin to perceive that

        1  See Cooper's Annals of Cambridge, iv.  612.
           This resignation did not take place.
        '

252 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1837.

it is too crabbed for the general reader. However, you shall have

the means of judging of                           it,   you choose, in no long time, for

                                                    if

expect to be out in less than a month.
II
   II   hope you find my aneinometer work well. The work

                   is

              I
manship certainly very much better than that of Newman was,

but am sorry that this advantage influences the price so much.

have put up one at Cambridge Observatory, and                       it                           appears

to work well.                                                            a
                       shall, as soon as have time, write paper
                                                        I
describing the construction of the instrument, and comparing
                                                           a if
the results in various places; so that, the one which you have

in action,     shall be glad to have                             copy of the register to
is

 I
     I

           I
compare with the other places.
        hope, when you go abroad, you will take Cambridge in your

way, that you may tell me more about your plans and inten

tions.  shall be very glad to hear how your thermomultipliers

tell their story about the subterranean temperature. Challis

has just been reading us at Cambridge memoir on the tempera
                                                        a

ture of the upper regions of the atmosphere, but cannot yet
                                                                 I

give you any exact account of his results. Mr Monck Mason, too,

has offered to the R.                             to navigate Mr Green's balloon into
I

                                            a S.
those parts, in order that we may see what the case really is.

hope we shall have scientific expedition to go 20,000 feet

high; for, as you know well, corresponding observations of the

barometer, thermometer, and hygrometer, carried up to that height,

would be quite invaluable.
    You would be much grieved to hear of Dr Turner's death,

as everybody that knew him must be. Besides our private

sorrow, he     an immense loss to science;                       do not know how
is
              is

                       II
                                         I

                                                                                           is a
he to be replaced. He was buried yesterday, and sort of

funeral oration was made by one of his brother professors over
his grave--a new thing in England.

The Geological Society have made me their President for

the next two years, which                               fear you will think no great _

argument of their wisdom.                         suppose your expedition to be a

geological one, inter alia; so take care and bear due allegiance

to me as your rightful head, and let me know how you go on

in your researches.

              MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON. 1837.                                            253

I Ihope you escaped this influenza.
                                  : ithad                    and for fortnight
                                      it                                it
lost my voice, and got a severe cough--a bad exchange. Re
                                             is                           Ia
member me kindly to your sisters, and believe me, dear Forbes,a
                                                    a
                                                      ; isYours always, W. WHEWELL.
                                                       is it,
                                  Tarn. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 26, 1837.

DEAR LORD NORTHAMPTON,

       My ballad1 will be happy to appear in the good company of

which you think worthy, notwithstanding the change you men
       I
tion.       I

                        it
                              it
          can hardly answer very exactly your enquiry about its

foundation;   wrote               some years ago, nearly as                 stands now,

and am not certain whether the Vienna cross has any definite

story belonging to it.  I         think only amounts to a tradition of a

maiden who had lost her lover and used to spin there.                         am very

much pleased that you find nothing to object to, till you come to

the last line but one.            am rather disposed to stick to my
          I
                        I
"point."      think this usage of the word                   common in English

Poetry. Thomson occurs to me

                                                        How many stand
              Around the death-bed of their dearest friends
              And point the parting anguish!

You will perhaps say that Thomson           Scot, and not great au

thority for English: but what say you to Milton?

              Mount Hermon, yonder sea, each place behold
              In prospect as point them.
              is

                           I
This seems to me justification enough for ballad, where laxity of

construction  tolerated. Except, indeed, you are afraid the

reader will understand the word in the mason's sense, and suppose

that the Viennese ladies employed themselves with mortar and

trowel in beautifying the structure; which not a recognized

way of showing sympathy and remembrance.

As to the " beloved," believe      had better be marked as you
1
                        is

                     is I
        The ballad called The Spinning Maiden's Cross see Vol.          1.  page 168.  The
line to which the letter relates

              "And point the fans beneath the wall."

It was suggested that the sense required point to which did not suit the verse.

                              n

254               REV. R JONES. 1837.

Ipropose, "beloved."  do not like "belov'd," because "beloved" in

Iprose is often spoken as a disyllable without any apostrophe

being used. And though think that people who read verse

ought to have ear enough to keep it verse, when the author has

made it so, without the assistance of the eye, it is very unwise to

reject any easy means of avoiding mistakes.
I am very willing to look forwards to the pleasure of visiting
I Iyou at Castle Ashby, but hardly know when can promise my
Iself the gratificationr
                          am busy, at present, with a history of

science from the earliest to the present times, which has given me

a great deal of trouble, or at least of work, and is likely to do

so still. Believe me always,                             -

                          Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                    TRIN. COLL, CAMBRIDGE, May 13, 1837.

MY DEAR JONES,

    I am right glad to hear you have defeated your internal

I Ifoes, and are so stout about beating your external adversaries when
the fight comes.  do not doubt you, and the less because know

that you will wait to let them assume the offensive, and then

shew how much you have been doing in a proper, quiet, and

Ijudicial spirit.
        should certainly like well to see a fair review of my book in
the Edinburgh Review, if it were only for the sake of the ancient

:times, when it used to contain the judgments of Playfair,

IMackintosh, and such people. And though have little respect
Ifor its philosophy or philosophers at present, know no other

periodical in which sound philosophy would appear with a better

Igrace. But do not want to disturb myself with any anxieties

I Iabout the immediate reception and circulation of my book.
   have, think, pretty successfully kept myself in a state of fit

tranquillity with regard to the immediate impression it may pro

duce, and am quite willing to let it wait its time, if the worshipful

the Reviewers are not yet ready to take their share in its opera

Ition. hear nothing but what convinces me it will make its way

among those who shape the opinions of future generations. For

SIR. R. I. MURCHISON. 1837.                      255

Iinstance, Clark, whom consider as one of the first living autho

rities in his own department, speaks with enthusiasm of the phy--

siology--perhaps the most hazardous and difficult of my tasks.

If you can, without putting yourself in any inconvenient position,

write a review of me in the Edinburgh, it will be a great pleasure

to me to see the impression it has made upon you, and to owe an

Iincreased currency to your pen; but shall be quite content, or at
Ileast shall try to be so, if they take their own way of dealing
I Iwith me. As for the British Critic, think am sure of fairness
Ifrom them; and, that being so, should have a curiosity to see
Ihow the matter strikes an average independent judge. But have
Igot other work in hand. am writing a little book on University

Education (entirely on the educational question, and not with any

Ireference to gentlemen commissioners like yourself), which want,
Iif possible, to get out in a few weeks.
                                          think it is much more

likely to have a popular currency than either of the other books;

Iand of course it is founded, actually and professedly, upon the
History, as all good books in future should be.  shall be in town
Ion Wednesday. Dine with us at the Geol. Soc. if you can.
                                                           be
Ilieve shall stay some time, as lectures &c. are drawing to a close.
I forgot to say about Lockhart, that, if he asks you to write a
I Ireview, should much like to see you do it; and dare say you

would get through it in time in spite of old habits and new em

Iployments. But have seen too much (though in fact not much)

of him, and of his caution and shifting, to wish you to make any

advances to him. A man has just sent me a pamphlet about

Inductive Logic--meagre enough--but it shews that people's
                                                                                                                                                        '

heads are seething.

Adieu. Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                                            ATHENIEUM, TUESDAY, June 6, [1837].

   MY DEAR MURCHISON,

      I believe you must call your beast Tretaspis ('rpfl'r'ly' dam-L's,
Ia perforated shield). This word is as convenient as the one told

you, and is better Greek.

                                           Yours very truly, \V. \VHEWELL.

256 RM. R. JONES. 1837.

                               UNIVERSITY CLUB, June 18, [1837].

MY DEAR MURCHISON,                             `

I should still be disposed to keep aspis for the termination,

when the shield of your trilobs is to be described, and to call your
Ifnew genus acidaspis: axis is a sharp point.
                                               you want to

change tretaspis to something which contains a reference to the
rim of the shield, you may call it treta-ntyrv, a perforated rim,
(iii/rug). And in that case you might call the other acidonotus, a

Isharp point on the back, or rhamphonotus, a beak on the back ; but
  think tretaspis and acidaspis are best. Yours to the end of the

dictionary and beyond.

                                        W. WHEWELL.

                               CHABTRES, July 12, 1837.

MY DEAR JONES,

How does your intention hold of snufling the air of the
Icontinent in the beginning of August?
                                        am on the point of

Ileaving Paris, and will regulate my course in any way that will
promise to bring us together.  shall go to the Rhine in the first

I Iplace, picking up a few churches on my road, and shall then look

for my letters at Bonn, till hear something of your plans. would

Ihave staid at Paris a week or a fortnight longer, if had had

you with me to enjoy the wonders of the fine arts at the Rocher

de Cancale and Tivoli, which still preserve their attractions; but

eating and drinking are social pleasures, and, for want of fit

Iassistants in the task, have made few attempts to ascertain

whether the ingenuity of the Parisians has advanced or receded

Iduring the fifteen years that have elapsed since our initiation into
its miracles.  fear that they are no longer the great nation in

these respects that they formerly were; but perhaps this is only

a melancholy fancy, generated by the less favourable circumstances
Iunder which have contemplated them. In other respects too,
I Ido not find that they have made any decided advance.
                                                                  was

curious to know what had been the result of Cousin's attempt

to introduce among them a sort of Scoto-German philosophy.

         REV. n. JONES. 1837.                                    257

The results of his efforts appear to be a complete failure; for he

has had no successors in his own peculiar path. The German

element of his metaphysics seems to have flown away like the

Ismoke of a tobacco-pipe, and the only residue find is a little

Scotch metaphysics among those who profess to be metaphysi
Icians, who are, however, very few and little attended to.
                                                             expect

that you will hold this up to me as a warning, to shew the folly

of engaging in a, similar undertaking in our own country, and
there is no denying that it offers a lesson which it would be very

Irash to disregard. But in truth it only SheWS, what always

supposed to be the case, that it is hardly possible to introduce

foreign metaphysics in the lump, and that we must read German

writers for some other purpose than that of substituting German
Imetaphysics for English.
                           shall try to profit by this piece of

wisdom when the time comes.

     What will you do? Come to Aix-la--Chapelle and Spa, and

we shall be sure to find something to amuse us: and besides, if

you are disposed for a longer flight, we are then within reach of

Ithe Rhine, Holland, and Belgium, of which you may take your
choice.  shall be glad to see any of them with you, so tell me
Hwhen you will meet me at the 6tel des Etrangers, Aim-la- Chapelle.

Lodge talked of joining me also in the beginning of August, and

I am now going to write to him to propose a congress at Aix-la
IChapelle. His time, like yours, (if he come at all, which

conceive to be far from certain) is the beginning of August, or a
Ilittle later. do not know whether he is at Cambridge or at his
I Iliving in Lincolnshire.
         suppose at the latter, but shall write

to him at Magdalene with a direction to forward the letter.
I hope you keep your inner man in better order than you
I Idid when was with you.
                           am quite persuaded that you would

be much the better`, stomach and head, for a few draughts of

German wine and Spa water; and for forgetting during a fort

night that there are such people as country parsons and farmers
fighting about tithes. You shall not even, except you wish
be put down in the books at the inns as Herr Professor Zehnte
Commissiondr Jones.

   How Mrs ones? If she comes with you she must appear
         is

            J
                                                                                               it,

w. II.                                                       17

2`58              REv. R. JONES. 1837.

as the Frau Professorinn Zehnte-Commissiondrinn, which is a
well-sounding title. Remember me kindly to her--and by all
means jump across the channel as soon as you can. Write to

Paste Restante, Bonn, as soon as you can. Good bye for the

present.                                                  _

                         Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                         TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, Sept. 6, 1837.

MY DEAR Jews,

       I found no letter here on the subject of Haileybury, and
Iindeed, notwithstanding all you said, should have been much
Isurprised if
               had. Our interview yesterday was so short
Ithat had not time to make all my enquiries. Do you still

persuade yourself that you are writing a review of my History?
If so, in what condition is and what are its prospects?
                         "; I                                see
                                                             I
by the last number of the Quarterly that Lockhart and Murrayis it,
                                                                     it,
appear to have none but shallow articles, and moreover that they

are at present very cross and very coarse, so apprehend your
                                               is I
chance there      small. Have you seen Macaulay's article on
              is
Bacon in the Edinburgh?             rejoice to see how little people yet
                 II
see the philosophy of Induction, for Macaulay no bad example

of "the general thinker and yet how scanty and superficial

are his views--happily expressed and well illustrated of course.

         found here a letter which, though do not assent to

somewhat disturbs me. It from Sir Charles Bell, complaining
II                                             II
that have treated him with slight and injustice in page 425 of

my third volume.     can easily reply that never professed to

arrange physiologists in order of merit, or to give full account of
                                                   a

their labours; but doubt whether can so well defend myself
                                       I

for saying "Sir Charles Bell and Mr Mayo."     I     had some mis

givings before, for though Mayo may deserve to be mentioned

here, believe he cannot be considered as having gone halves in
I
the discovery, and at any rate had not examined the subjectI
                                    I

sufficiently to entitle me to give such sentence.     have written
                                    iIf            II
to Bell defending myself, but,              acome to a second edition,

must consider well the propriety Of modifying.         must how

                REV. R. JONES. 1837.                                                          259

ever take into the account that it will be unwise to modify lightly,

Ifor am not going to run after the rainbow like Buckland, by

trying to keep up with the progress of things. "What is writ

is writ."

   I left a piece of Spa work for Mrs Jones at your office yester
Iday, which beg you to give her as a memorial of the place
Iwhere you and did not meet.

Do not forget, at some moment of your philosophical moods,
Ito do what
             mentioned yesterday. Put down on paper, as

clearly and strongly as you can, the reasons which you can find

for the opinion you held a little while ago; namely, that the

simplest mechanical truths depend upon experience in a manner

in which the simplest geometrical truths do not: that the axioms

of geometry may be self-evident, and known at priori ,' but that

there are not axioms of mechanics so known and so evident.

I am very desirous of getting this opinion in its best and most

definite shape, because the negation of it is a very leading point

of my philosophy. This tenet separates me from the German

schools as well as from the Scotch metaphysicians, and is the

basis of a long series of results both speculative and practical.

IThe whole art of induction depends upon it.
Adieu.  am off for Liverpool tO-morrow fora week of bustle
Iand speechifying, and then come home to philosophise.

                           Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                              [October, 1837.]

MY DEAR JONES,

          You will probably have seen the Ed. Rev. of my History by
the time this reaches you ; but, if not, get it and read that you
I
                I
                          I

                                                     is

                                    I
                                               I

                                                                                         it,
may tell me whether there  anything which need to answer.

hope not; for do not `see what can say without being ill

natured to Brewster, who has made the article for the most part

an angry remonstrauce in favour of his own rights unjustly with

held. Thus you find that have ofi'ended him by not quoting his
Life of Newton--by not quoting his Edinburgh Journal of Science

--by not giving more credit to his arrangement of crystals--by

                                                        17--2

260 REV. R. JONES. 1837.

doubting his refutation of Newton's prismatic analysis--and by

not adopting his own peculiar monomania about the rewards

which should be given by the public to men of science, as well as

by referring to his controversies with the French discoverers.

I think this personal feeling in the review must be so obvious to

those who know anything of science, that it must disarm it of

much of its force; and even those who know nothing must

Ilaugh, think, at the absurd fancy of my having a spite against

Scotchmen, and passing over them and their exploits out of pure

malice. All this is foolish enough, but it will not be easy to

I Italk away the impression in those who have no more sense than
to admit it. For what am to say?                have not mentioned

Mrs Somerville. There was no pretext for mentioning her in a

Ihistory of original discovery; and am not to compliment away

the character of impartiality which alone can give value to a his
Itory. But it is harsh and pompous to say this, and had rather
Ileave people to think it. In short, am disposed to stand upon
Imy character and hold my tongue, till can write my Philosophy,
I Iand then can set all to rights that is really wrong.
                                                         hope to

set to work as soon as my sermons are preached, that     in De
I
     I

                  I
                     I

                                           it

                                                         is
                                                                   is

                                                                                                                   is,

                                                                                                        is
cember; for by that time my other book will be nearly printed.

The injustice (for fear  so) of that one word and, which

have put between Bell and Mayo, the only thing which really
Ifdisturbs me.
                could find any mode or channel of modifying

this, would do it.

    In other respects the review will be useful to me. It

whimsical enough to see Brewster taking between his teeth the

hardest part, almost the only metaphysical part, of the book--the

causes of the failure of the Greek philosophy.  have said plainly
a
                                     is is

                                       is
                                                          is

                                   I

                                                                             a

                                                                             it
enough that the account there incomplete, and he might have
waited on that account; but that would have made little differ

ence in his understanding it. He resolved that there shall be

no inductive philosophy; and the observations he makes on that

subject, coming from him, who really a genuine discoverer and
a man of genius, are instructive, though full of error. As to the

example which he attacks, the round shadow of square hole,

would be good one for shewing that he wrong; but then all

               .sm e. B. AIRY. 1837.                          261

such discussion would be a brick out of my philosophical house;

it would stop the progress of the building, and give a very incom

plete notion of the edifice.

   I cannot help thinking of the folly of his Scotch grumble, as

my publisher, Parker, calls the key note of the article. By the

Iway, was somewhat afraid that my Reviewers might complain,

Ias Drinkwater did, that had been hard upon Galileo; but

IBrewster gives him over to the bigots far more decidedly than
   have done. As to the Scotch grumble, Brewster has taken

Ispecial care to overlook all that have said of his rival Forbes's

discoveries on the polarization of heat. And his uproar about

steam boats and gas and railways shews that he has not at all

Icomprehended the nature of the book.     _

There is hardly anything that should have to correct in the

History of Optics, except, perhaps, the question between Ptolemy

I Ithe Greek and Alhazen the Arabian, and shall be glad if find
Ithe Arabian discovered nothing, for have a strong European

nationality.                           '

IAdieu, and write to me, though do live behind iron bars1

which the light of knowledge has not been able to penetrate.

                                                 Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

   I will bet you a penny that the cry of injustice to Scotland will

prevent Lockhart taking your Review if nothing else does--and

Iif you write it-of which have my own doubts.
   I send "the Tribute " with my love to Mrs Jones.

MY DEAR AIRY,  Tum. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, October 14, 1837.

                                                            '

       I have so little chance of seeing you at Greenwich for
I Isome time, that must 'put on paper what have to say, all little
Ithough it be. For ever since took to going to London every
Ifortnight, as President of the Geological Society, have lost all

Ipower of locomotion in the neighbourhood of that awkward town,

since cannot spare any holidays in addition to these dutiful

               1 See Vol. 1. page 116.

262 SIR e. B. AIRY. 1837.

Ivisits. One of my pieces of wisdom that wish to impart to you

is a strong recommendation to you touching your magnetic obser

vations, namely, that you will adopt some contrivance by which

you can have stay-registering observations of the daily changes of

diurnal variation. With a great poker of a needle such as you

have got, which is strong enough to do any work, and will

otherwise be idle nine-tenths of its time, this cannot be

difficult. A little clock-work would be well bestowed upon

keeping it out of such an absurd condition of uselessness. You

may depend upon the bar will grow lazy and conceited
           is,                                                                           if     has
                    it,                                                                     it

nothing to do, except when you are looking at it.  I  am sure that

with regard to all these half-formed sciences, such as terrestrial

magnetism  we shall never come to any knowledge worth

having, except we have the whole course of the facts. Self

registering machines are the only inventions worth having for

those changes, of which the laws are as yet all in a mass of con

fusion. And all that have seen of magnetic observations leads
              I

me to believe that with a self-registering apparatus, you may ob

tain very important results. You have seen probably what saw
                                                                                         I

a little while ago at Quetelet's, the statement of the contempo

raneous changes of the variations observed at different places. They

are utterly astonishing, inasmuch as, being altogether different on

different days, they correspond exactly over the whole of Europe,

and are so strictly contemporaneous, that people begin to talk of

obtaining the longitude by means of them; so pray do not let

your magnetical gear be dispensed from the task of recording all

their strange vagaries, that we may some day or other know some

thing of their whereabouts.           as
                                   a
I
                                       s
                                                                                     is
                         Ever very truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                      Tam. Conn, Oct. 28, 1837.

MY DEAR Amr,

have got the Edinburgh Review upon me again about

my History of the Inductive Sciences. The reviewer                                       Brewster,

and he writes very cantankerously, but especially about the Optics.

                sm G. B. AIRY. 1837.                263

I was for the first day after reading it very peaceably disposed,

Iand resolved to stand upon my character and hold my tongue, and

perhaps this may be best after all. But find myself waxing

Iwrathy, like Major Downing, and do not know if shall be able to
Iavoid griping after my hickory, and want you to drive a nail or
Itwo into the cudgel, for have found already with these reviewers,
I Ithat there is no use in not hitting hard if you smite at all.

   would not give you any unnecessary trouble, but want you to

tell me a thing or two which you can without trouble, because

I Imyself am a busy man at this present, inasmuch as am re

editing one book, writing and printing another, and constructing

four sermons to edify the University in the month of November,

besides all common, and more than common, operations in the
I Iway of tutorizing, and the like.
                            will put down what want to

know from you.

First, of Brewster's asserted refutation of Newton's prismatic
Ianalysis of the spectrum.
                            have not yet read his paper (Edinb.
ITrans. XII. p. 125). Am safe in asserting that Newton's analysis

is not overturned by any analysis effected by means of absorbing

Imedia, and that these are the only source of Brewster's objections?
        think Arago distinctly gives the first place in the discovery

of the undulatory theory to Young, not to Fresnel.  D`o you recol

lect if this is so?

Do you know who discovered the irrationality of the spectrum,

who applied it to the improvement of the telescope, who examined
its phenomena in many solid and fluid media? Brewster says

I do not mention the man, because he was a Scotchman. He says
Ithat am bent on doing injustice to Scotchmen; that the only

successful generalization in my book is the neglect of the claims
I Iof Scotchmen; that even hate Scotchwomen.
                                                    think this last
Icharge is hard ; but what can say ?
   I have not thought much more about your magnetic apparatus,

but it seems to me that some method of marking, which requires

no force that you would miss, must be feasible. What do you

think of this? Let the needle carry a bristle or hair at its end,

pointing downwards; and let this bristle just brush a sheet of

paper covered with fine dust. This would make a good mark,

264 M. QUETELET. 1837.

and would be quite permanent enough to be copied. Of course

you might have a bristle at each end for greater accuracy.

Of Brewster's new fringes he speaks in his review. Of course

they are yet too new to form a final opinion about;_but he up

braids me also with knowing nothing of the transverse fringes of

grooved surfaces and of the phenomena of crystallized surfaces.

I IThe last accusation is true, so far as recollect ; the former, sup

pose, refers to those papers of his which appeared a couple of

Iyears ago, which certainly never well comprehended. Do they

go into the theory cleverly ?
I have only yet found one word of three letters in my history,
I Iwhich am seriously sorry for.
                                  have talked of Sir C. Bell and
IMr Mayo in reference to a certain discovery, which believe is not

I Ia just account of the matter.                am right glad to
       hope Mrs Airy is with you by this time.

hear you have thoughts of coming here. Pray let me know in

time, if you conveniently can, because, otherwise, it is certain that

Iyou will be conveyed away in a hundred directions all the while

you are supposed to be here, and shall See nothing of you. We

are going to lay the foundation stone of the Fitzwilliam Museum

this week with great array of scarlet robes and dinners and so
forth. My kindest remembrances to Mrs Airy and your sister.

Also to the small bodies which revolve round them.

                                  Yours ever, W. WHEWELL.

     N.B. As you are as likely as myself to be busy, the first of

my queries above is the most essential.

         [To M. Quetelet.]

                           UNIVERsrrY CLUB, LONDON, Nov. 30, 1837.

         i' '- § §

You will be glad to hear that the Royal Society of London

have awarded me their Royal medal for my researches on the
Itides.
         received it to day, and as you perhaps know, it is a very

pretty plaything, even for its own sake, being a piece of gold

worth 50 guineas, of very beautiful workmanship. This event

          REv. H. WILKINSON. 1837.                             265

gives me an additional admonition to send you the sketch which
I Ipromised you of the results of my Tide Researches.
I Ithis soon.                                             will do

          have in fact already begun to write it.         received

a letter from Herschel a short time ago. He is winding up his

labours at the Cape, and has already sent home the reduced

observations of more than 600 nebulae and 400 double stars. One

of the circumstances of recent occurrence, which has given him

most pleasure, is his having been able to observe the eight

Satellites of Saturn during several revolutions. Nobody except

Ihis father has ever seen this object, at least so believe. We are

at this present time erecting the great telescope at Cambridge,

which was given us by the Duke of Northumberland. It is the

same size as South's (an object glass of Cauchoix of 13 inches),
but is differently mounted, according to an inventionof Airy's.

I have no doubt this telescope will soon be in active operation,

for our present astronomer, Challis, is very zealous. He has

published his last year's observations, which you have probably
received. We think it a great proof of his skill and rapidity

that he has published the Cambridge Observations of 1836 before

iAiry has published those of Greenwich.        #
                                            §
                                 it I
                         CASTLE Asniax, Noarnmrron, Dec. 26, 1837.
                                       is is 'l-
MY DEAR WILKINSON,
                                          I
          am sorry, on looking up your letter to answer to findI
II
                                                        I it,
            is

            II
              I
that have procrastinated till no answer will serve your purpose.

The fact  that have been so busy with cares of authorship

and others, that have deferred everything which appeared to

admit of delay, and had a notion, an erroneous one as now

find, that your question was of that kind.        had left Cambridge

before your letter arrived there, and have not been there since;

and, as you very probably are there at this moment, you will not

benefit much by this reply, which intend to send to Sedbergh.

But shall do so, that may, as far as yet possible, quiet my con
I
    I
                      I
science, which has been very reproachful upon the discovery, that

have neglected your letter till                too late.  do not doubt

266 REV. H. WILKINSON. 1837.

that conscience is right in thus taking up your cause, but at the

Isame time think it very hard she should bully me in this way,
Iconsidering that have just been preaching four sermons in
Iher honour, in which have said more fine things in her praise

than people of late have been in the habit of saying. But that is

one of her odd ways. She never thinks of setting off good actions
I Iagainst bad ones.
           have just finished my sermons--indeed

think it probable that they will be published at Cambridge this

week; so that you may chance to see the course which my wisdom

has takenI a iIfas have already conjectured, you are at present
                 if,
revelling your twelve days at St John's.II
                       II
This writing and printing of my sermons has been one of my

recent literary labours; another has been, or rather at present,is

writing and printing a. mathematical book, which intend should
                                               II I
be my last in that department, a treatise on the Doctrine of

Limits and its Applications`, in which term, however, include
                                                     I
                                                       I
all our second year subjects except Mechanics, about which have

already teazed 'the world sufficiently.        would not write this
                            is
book,      did not think could treat the subjects which con
                                 I                          it

tains in more logical and philosophical connexion than has yet

been done; moreover, shall write a prefaceshewing that have
                                                         I

done so: and then shall depose my mathematical boxing-gloves,

and go on with arms of wider range as well as may.       it I   grieve

much to hear that Mrs Wilkinson unwell, but trust             is  only

some passing illness, such as you heads of families must often

have to disquiet you by way of balance to the blessings that you

enjoy.     shall possibly see you at Cambridge before you read

this, which makes considerable confusion in my notions of tense.

For according to epistolary chronology no communication can

intervene between writing and receiving letter. So send you
                                          a

                                                     I

my best wishes, to you and yours, hoping that they are already

superfluous by repetition, and that you have answered them

before you have read them.                               '

With my kind regards to the ladies and thegirls,

           I          am always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                     1  See Vol. 1. page 120.

                  ARCHDEACON HARE. 1838.                                267

                                    AUDLEY END, Jan. 7, 1838.
                                            '
MY DEAR HARE,
I have said very truly in my dedication` to you that it

was a great pleasure to me to put in that place a memorial of

our friendshipl. Literary pursuits and solitary speculations, if

they do not unite us with our friends, sever us from them; and

I hardly know how any literary or philosophical success could

console me under the thought of having lost my place in the

remembrance and affection of the friends of the earlier part of

Imy life. And besides your place among these, many of the

others whom think of with most pleasure are twined in various
Iways among the recollections of our intercourse.
                                                    sometimes

think she is rather a hard task-mistress, this Reforming Phi

Ilosophy of mine; for she carries me into regions where can

hardly expect any contemporary friends to follow me--at least

for a long time; and if a younger generation learn to sympa

Ithize with me, (of which hope very boldly), they cannot quite

replace my wquales. However this may be, my allotted task

appears to me to be clear, and the sermons are a small part of

it,though   must,    fear, be years before  can bring the
                                          I II
       I                                         I

                it

                   II
                              I
connection into view; and before that time hope shall see

you more than once.  am sorry that at present this cannot

happen.     am so engaged that cannot come south of London

this vacation.
                          is s- s *

As to the name of your dwelling-place, did not intend

any irony, but could not bring myself to your spelling, since
it

               I
appeared to me to be at variance with your own principles,

and all other good principles, of orthography. Herstmonceux

cannot come in any way but by a blind submission to former

usage (probably accidental), to the neglect of all analogy and

etymology.  really had put into print your way, and then
            I

                                            1
                                                                    1.

                                  I
                                      iIf
                                                       I
could not bear the look of it.      should like to discuss the

other matters on which you remark,       had room.                      do not

think, taking all St Paul's argument together, one can doubt

                     See Vol. page 245.

268 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1838.

that he held the Gentiles to have a knowledge of God's righte

ousness, and that such a belief was present to his mind in the

Ipassage to which you refer. About conscience, observe (1) That
   have not asserted anything about its origin, but only about

Ithe independence and certainty of its conclusions. (2) That do
Inot adduce Scripture as proof of this, but only as in harmony

with it. (3) think that the Scripture is good, as proof against
those who construct a system of morals in which the reference

to conscience must be considered as an evasion, which is the case

with the utilitarian systems.                            You

   I am going to see Sedgwick at Norwich in a week.

ought to come to Cambridge to see the College before all your

friends become Prebends, Bishops, Rectors, and the like. We

have a good living vacant, which ought to take away some of us

(Dickleburgh, in Norfolk). Adieu. With all good wishes,

                         Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                         Tam. Conn, Cmnnmcn, Ap. 2, 1838.

MY DEAR FORBES,

    I Iwas very glad to hear from you, for believe it
                                                II                     as
                                                     I
you say, some time since we have exchanged letters. This,
                                                                  is,
however, fear rather my fault than yours, for am often
I
  IIvery remiss in my correspondence; and, this being so,            feel

      Ireally obliged to you, who, with a conscience generally free from
                    is
such sins, are ready to overlook them in other people. regretted
                IImuch to learn from several quarters that you have been ill,
                    I

                                            it
and had hardly quite recovered at the date of my last authentic

information.  hope this refers to a state of things now so

entirely past, that you look upon as quite obsolete.     I           am

glad you intend moving this way early in summer. You will
find me- here till the second or third week in June, whether

longer can hardly tell, for have not yet made up any plans

for the summer which consider as at all fixed. My schemes,

so far as have formed them hitherto, have only been those

instantaneous hypotheses which metaphysical writers tell us are

so useful in discovery.  am scribbling away at a new book,

                           PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1838.                          269

which is to be the sequel to my History. For, however odd

your neighbour the Edinburgh Review may thinkI aI                          do not
                                                        iIt,
consider my History as annihilated by their critique, or less

fit to get scientific moral out of than from the first expected

   to be. But this process must be work of some time. In
it  a

         II
the meanwhile am threshing away at the tides, and expect

still to get good stuff out of them.                  have a. paper now on the

stocks, in which              expect to shew how each year's observa

tions may at once be made to add something to the accuracy

of the existing tide tables of the place where they are made.

This being shewn,            it     appears to me that  it                 the business of

                                                             is

all civilized governments to maintain tide observatories and tide

calculators, just as much as observatories and calculators whose

work appears in any other page of the Nautical Almanac. When

   have written and published this, shall be desirous of wrapping
I                                a

                                            I           really no end of the

                                                                    is

                                                               if
up my tide papers for while; for there

work to which they lead; any more than any one were to

undertake to reduce all the astronomical observations that exist

in the world. As for the hydrodynamical theory of the subject,

we are nearly ripe for that, but confess that now, long unused
                                    II
                                        I             do not dare to attack

                                               I
to the heavier weapons of analysis,

so formidable a problem.            shall leave that to bolder and

stronger mathematicians.            am glad to hear you have been

going on so well with refraction and polarization of heat. have
                                                                           I

no doubt that you will end by putting that subject in its proper

and final shape.           I  have not yet seen Melloni's paper of which

you speak. What do your Edinburgh folks intend to do with
respect to the vacant professorship? You have two good candi

dates in our two men, Gregory and Kelland, but Gregory does

not appear to think        s        certain that the choice will fall upon either.
                          s
                                it  as                                  *

                                                  as
    Airy has just been reading us curious and very laborious
paper upon the theory of the rainbow treated undulation-wise;is
the trouble of the integrations portentous, but some odd results

come out, especially as to the supernumerary rainbows.
                                          s s as

                                    Yours always, W. WHEWEIL.

270            ARCHDEACON HARE. 1838.

                                                                           Turn. Conn, Oct. 15, 1838.

MY DEAR HARE,

    I was very glad again to see your handwriting, and doubly

Iglad to receive from you such an account of your pupil and mine.
    hope, and from what you say do not doubt, that you will

receive a good account of him when you come here. It is a great

satisfaction to think that you are going to shew yourself among

us again, and still more that you are going to preach to us;
Ifor know well that you will set some right thoughts and good
Ifeelings a circulating among us.
                                                          shall be your disciple, not
Iyour teacher, in February, for shall not give any lectures till
Ithe Easter term. The subject is large and serious, and must.

wade gravely into   not plunge headlong; and this, not onlyif it,

because am growing older and more leisurely in my moveit
     I
        I      used to be, but because, to do any permanent

            I
ments than

good, must produce a consistent system, or at least the elements

of a system. Even this be not the best way, must be mine,
                                                              it
for all that have   done, and am doing,                                 if       will
not hang together.                                                           it
tions pretty wide.I If will, think                            has no value,

                    But you shall haveI                   II  have laid my founda

                                                              the means of judging

    you like, for shall publish my Philosophy (of Science)

    make morals my main object; this shall do in the

of next year, possible. It certainly very encouraging
I if                                                                             before
              if I                                                               course
                                                                                 to see
                                                      is

on all sides strong tendencies to a reform of the prevalent

systems of morals. The article in the LondonReview an indi                   is
cation of this, and appears to me to be in many important points

right, and at any rate right in the vigorous rejection of Ben

tham's doctrines and keen criticism of his character. But

confess do not look with much respect upon a body of
I
       I

          I

                                                            a

                                                    if

                                          I
                                                 I

                                                                                                    is
writers, who, after habitually showering the most bitter abuse on

those who oppose Bentham's principles, come round to the side

of their opponents, without single word of apology, and with

an air of imperturbable complacency, as they had been right

both before and after the change. Nor do see any security,

in their present creed, against a change of equal magnitude here

after.  cannot understand how Sterling, who, suppose,                                                   a

                  ARCHDEACON ,HARE. 1838.                   271

conservative, can write in a journal of professed political objects,

these being, to destroy the church and democratize the nation----

Iat least have seen no retraction of these purposes. You will
I I I Ithink am ill natured; suppose am; for certainly, when

see a knot of young men attempting to impose violent and

destructive opinions upon their readers as the maxims of a new

and wise philosophy, and then a few months afterwards telling

us that these extravagant doctrines were some of the circum
Istances of their own self-formation,
                                        think them little more

excusable than the Marquis of Waterford breaking windows by
Iway of sowing his wild oats, and vastly more mischievous.
                                                            had

read Maurice's1 `philosophy' (without knowing it was his) with

some interest, but thought  is it,as you say, fanciful; you know

that what we system-makers are apt to think of each other.a if
   is
            is
But there         plenty for all of us to do, we can in any way call

up the elements of good from any quarter.

                  as a                       'l'

        suppose that, Bunsen in England, you see him; pray
send him down to us here, for we want to make acquaintance
with him--Live recollective of us, and believe me,
I

                     if

                            Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

   [Mr Hare in letter dated October 8th, 1838, had drawn
attention to an article on Bentham by J.I           Mill as "most
                         a                   S. S.
masterly". On October 25 Mr Hare returned to the subject,
J.and, in reply to Dr Whewell, defendedI
                                                    Mill with great
                  extract two sentences from his letter. "It must
earnestness.

be six or seven years since Wordsworth told me how much he

had been struck by him, and that he was one of the most

remarkable young men of the age. Of his writings have not
                                                    I

read much; but all that have has been most masterly in execu

tion, shewing a logical power and metaphysical subtlety very
                            a
                                     a
rare in England, united with high tone of moral feeling."]

1       This refers to the article on Moral and Metaphysical Philos0phy in the
Emyclopwdia Metropolitana, which Mr Hare commended as "brimful of genius and

subtle thought though fanciful.
              ",

272 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1838.

                                Tam. Conn, Oct. 30, 1838.

MY DEAR HARE,

I find Sandys's translation of the Psalms in Trinity Library,
Iand herewith it comes to you.
                                shall be glad to see your col

lection of better versions than the ordinary ones; only take care

that the same thing does not happen to you in this instance,

which has come to pass once or twice before, that, beginning by

being the editor, you have ended by being the author of two

thirds of the book. Or rather, look upon such a result as possible

without caring to prevent it: for versifying psalms is a very good

Iand wholesome employment, and such a collection as you meditate
forming, whether borrowed or home-made, is likely,  should

think, so far as a mere academical-man can judge of your country

parish 'wants and feelings, to be very useful.

   I am glad that John Mill is such a man as you describe, and
Isuch that you think it right to defend him, and have no dis;

inclination to believe his good qualities. My quarrel is with the

Westminster Review, which, after being destructive and out

rageous on one side of the question, becomes vehement on the

other side, remaining destructive, and using language which
Ifimplies a claim of consistency and identity.
                                                it were not that
Iyou are so resolute a Vindicator, think you would see how

necessary it is in such a case not to single out John Mill, as John
Mill the individual of the present moment, disconnected from all

other Mills and all former times. He does not write as John

Mill. He does not give his name. He does write as a London

and Westminster Reviewer. That Review has been, and, as we

country folks imagine, is still supported by one or two of the

most thorough-going theoretical and practical destructives and

utilitarians, avowedly for the purpose of promulgating their doc

trines and carrying them into effect. It still claims to be
Benthamite. If John Mill be a Coleridgian or a Conservative in

any intelligible sense, he must be the most infatuated of men to

imagine that he can do any good by promulgating his opinions

under such auspices. If he think his views of morals consistent

Iwith the objects of the review, should like to see the connexion

               SIR J. F. w. HERSOHEL. 1838.                273

made out with any reasonable logic; for certainly up to the

present time the objects and schemes of the destructives have

been supported upon views, the very opposite of those which you
I I Iascribe to him. So you see am where was.
I Inatured, but cannot make out that am unjust.  may be ill

IBy the way, talking of young men, suppose you have seen
Milnes's poems. It appears to me that there is great beauty of

Ithought, and very considerable skill in the execution, in a great

number of them; though cannot quite assent to Landor's
Iextravagancies of expression on the subject.
                                                 shall be in town
Inext week; am afraid there is no chance of seeing you there
                     I
then.

                     Believe me yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                                                    TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 3, 1838.

   MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

      I Ihope the time is come now when can induce you to
Ilook with a favourable eye upon a proposal which spoke of to
Iyou some time ago, and which did not Wish to obtain your final

answer upon at that time. Now that you are secure from being

Iplagued about the R. S. and the British Association, hope that

our good-humoured, quiet, easily-satisfied Geological Society may

put in her petition for a little of your time. It will not be much

that she will want; not more upon the whole than the British

Association would have required, seeing that you must come to

London often, whereas to Birmingham you must have gone

expressly. Nor is it necessary that the president of the Geol.

Soc. should attend every meeting. You would be considered as

Idoing all that could be expected of a non-resident if you attend a
plurality of times.  know that it would be a matter of great

delight to the Fellows of the Geological Society to have you at

their head; and most of all to those whose opinion you would

Imost value. It would, am sure, be very pleasant to you to see

Ithose persons frequently, and to witness and take a part in their

debates. Indeed, with your interest in the subject, hardly see

how you can help being present at their meetings almost as

       w. II.                                    18

274 sm J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1838.

frequently as the president need be. You would find it a good

thing to become acquainted and familiar with the views which

are now current among them; and they would be extremely

gratified to hear your judgment when you formed one; and above

all to have a view of the present state of the science, as it strikes
Iyou, in your annual address.
                               need not tell you what agreeable

people to associate with the geologists are; but, what is more to

Ithe purpose, there are absolutely no quarrels or heartburnings or

internal difficulties in the Society; at least none that ever

Ibecame aware of. Our only difliculty at present is to find a

President for next February; and from that trust you will

Ideliver us. It is the earnest wish of every~ member whom have
Iconsulted (and have consulted most of the best judgments) that
I Iyou will do so; and, if you do not, declare am at my wits' end

to know what we shall do. The older members very much desire

Inot to have the cycle of old presidents repeated; but indeed do
Ithem great injustice if represent their wish to induce you to

take the office as depending on any consideration of negative

advantages, for they wish it too much positively to look at the
                  `
alternative.
I hope you will not think the sacrifice too great, when you

consider the merits of the society to which it is to be made, and

Iof the men who desire it. To shew you how perfectly reasonable
think  I iIt,  must tell you that was on the point of writing to
                           II
Lady Herschel, to beg her to be our advocate with you; whichI

certainly should not have thought of doing,  had not believed
                                             iIf
                                                I

                                                          I
that the petition was both a very fitting one, and one that would

tend to your gratification.  forbore making this application to

her, but pray tell her that trust she will be our friend.    say

nothing about the honour of this office (although very sincerely

think the most honourable scientific office in London) because
your friends never think of such things in regard to you.
I
      it
         shall be here for the next fortnight, so pray write to me

here, and pray do not reject the proposal. If you do not, shall
                                             I

be considered as having done the Society my greatest service

by my last act, and am sure you will never regret it. Believe
               I

me, my dear Herschel, yours always most truly, W. WHEWELL.

            M. QUETELET. 1839.         275

                      Lonnon, Jan. 17, 1839.

MY DEAR M. QUETELET,

            * ii i' ii

It gives me much pleasure to see M. Mailly's curves of the

Isemimenstrual inequality of your Belgian Tides, and his remarks
upon them.  hope you and he will find the subject so inter

esting that you will pursue it. It is plain from the curves that

Isome of your observations are not very good, although do not

doubt that the result which M. Mailly has obtained is nearly

correct; it might probably be improved by introducing the cor

rections for Lunar Parallax and Declination. You may have seen

that a M. Chazallon has published Tide Tables for several French

ports, under the title of Annuaire des Mare'es des Cdtes de France.

He asserts that the formula of the Mécam'que Céleste give, for

Brest, a better coincidence with observation than we obtain by
I Iour tables in London.
            am glad to hear this, but should like

to see the calculations given more in detail. However this may

Ibe, you have, think, sufficient evidence, even in your own ports,

Ithat the same formula will not suit different places.
        shall have another memoir or two to send you soon on the

effect of Solar Parallax and Declination, and on the mean height

of the Sea. We are endeavouring to induce our Government to

send out an expedition towards the South Pole to determine the

present position of the Southern Magnetic Pole, and also to

establish several permanent magnetic observatories in order to

  observe the simultaneous changes discovered by Gauss and his
» friends. I' suppose you have attended to this subject already.

  Airy has just put up his Gaussian apparatus in the Observatory at
  Greenwich, including a Bifila'rgand will begin his observations
  soon. He has adopted the principle of the Collimator in order to

'observe the variation. The other stations at which we wish to

have Magnetic Observatories are the Cape of Good Hope, Van

IDieman's Land, Ceylon, and some places in Canada. Sabine will

go to Canada, and hope Capt. Ross will conduct the Antarctic

IExpedition. This expedition was recommended by the British

Association at its Newcastle meeting, which was sorry you could

                                18--2

276 SIR J. w. LUBBOCK. 1839.

Inot attend. We meet next year at Birmingham, when hope

we shall see you. We have now a railroad from London to

Birmingham, so that the journey is as easy as it is from Brussels

to Antwerp.  is c as an

                     Tam. 001.11., Cmnnrnon, Feb. 9, 1839.

MY DEAR LUBBOCK,

    IWishing to get Hopkins's paper 011' my hands, wrote my

report upon it and left the papers and report at the R.             S._IThe

purport of my report was, that did not recommend the first
                     it I I
paper to be printed, except the author thought more necessary
                                              it
                                                it
to his general investigation than conceived to be; but re

commended the second to be printed without hesitation. My

reasons were, that thought very desirable to work out the
             I

                 if
precession for the extreme hypothesis of a rigid crust for fluid
                                                                    aa
interior, which, even physically very improbable,                   still sort
                                       I
of limiting case in geological speculation.I  dare say that the

investigation respecting precession contains        aportion which        is
                                                          a

                                                                is
familiar to those who have studied the best investigations on that

subject, but was not sorry to see the result, in case so much
I

out of the common range of physical astronomy, worked out

from tolerably elementary principles.        did not think that the

mathematical working could have been much abbreviated with

advantage, as the kind of motion which he considers                 (a  fluid

Ifrevolving about a curvilinear axis) certainly does not fall under
very simple calculations without some management.                   the crust

be rigid and filled with fluid there will be mutual pressure, and

the problem then appears to me far from easy, and still think
I

      it

           I
                   II

                                   I
                                       I

                                                                       it
that it-is desirable to have the results of this simple hypothesis

investigated. He, or any one else, may take the problem with

other circumstances of expansibility, &c., but should think

best to solve in its simplest form first.

Under these views think cannot retract my recommenda

tion. As a student of geology, was really curious to know the

result, and think geologists in general will be so; which cannot

PROF; J. 1). FORBES. 1839.                                   277

be known to them except the paper be printed ; or at least which

cannot be examined by others till then.       '

I Iwas very glad to receive your Treatise on the Tides.  have

no immediate intention of writing any general view; for, even
I Iif had time, (a very baseless hypothesis)
                                              do not see my way
Iwell enough. There are several points which want to decide
I Imore satisfactorily than have yet done. As to the epoch, am
now disposed to believe that the time half way from transitA to B

(the transit at a meridian 90° from Greenwich) will be the best;

I Ibut shall be able to decide this, hope, before long.
   I Iam afraid shall not be in London at the next meeting of
Ithe R. S. Council.  shall be very glad if we can come to an

agreement in our recommendation respecting Hopkins's paper.

Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                              Tam; Conn, Camnmncn, Mar. 1, 1839.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

        It was a great pleasure to me to receive a letter from you,

Ifor had been grieving that our correspondence had been so long

interrupted, and had a persuasion that the fault was mine; and

I Iin short was meditating a letter to you when received yours.

Your thermotical results are very curious and interesting, and

Icertainly prove, as you say, what had always believed, that the

material of the earth's crust is a primary element in the formulae

for the passage of heat into the interior. In Hopkins's researches
there is not much of a thermotical bearing. His first paper

consisted of some speculations (somewhat vague) about the
solidification of a fluid mass from the surface and from the

centre, with no application of the theory of heat. The second

of his memoirs 'was an investigation, as appears to me, very

interesting, of the difference of precession and nutation in a
solid earth, and in a rigid crust with a fluid interior. He finds.
the difference of the amount of precession and nutation in the

two cases to be of imperceptible magnitude on any probable

Ihypothesis. His assumed conditions, a rigid crust full of fluid,

are hardly consistent with thermotical laws; but think he did

278                       PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1839.

Iwell to take the extreme case first.           am somewhat disap

pointed that the resulting difl'erence is so small; it would have

been so pretty to extract the internal fluidity from astronomical
        Iobservations.
                          am glad you are going on with your researches

        Ion heat. It was a great pleasure to me to be on the Council
        of the R. S. which adjudged you the Rumford Medal.  hope

        you received it with a proper statement of `our satisfaction

        in recognising your discoveries. Why did you not come to

        Newcastle, when we met there on purpose to tempt your north--
        Iern luminaries?
                             hope, as you say, we shall have Harcourt

        amongst us again, for he can do more than any man to keep

us right. He appeared some time ago at a Council of the

IBritish Association at which was present in London. He
Iappeared very unwell, and the last account that heard of his
Idaughter was that she was past hope. As for me, am working
Ihard (among other matters) at myPhilosophy, which want to
Iget off my hands before turn my main attention to other
Imatters. You will observe that am Professor of Moral Phi

        Ilosophy rather than of Casuistry. The foundation of my pro--
fessorship includes both titles, and            prefer the former. Why

        Ishould not we here have such a professorship, as well as you
at Edinburgh?             am glad to hear that Kelland and his place
                                       I hope he will do good service to
        suit each other so well.

        mathematics, prepared as he and with his attention fixed upon
                                       I I is,
the most promising parts of mathematical physics. Gregory   is

here working at various matters, have no doubt to good purpose.

is is, I  hope soon to be able to send you my final speech from the

        Geological President's chair.  have there given a brief abstract

        of the researches of Hopkins about the interior fluidity. Buckland

          my successor.

           Your packet reached me only yesterday, though your letter

          dated Dec. 21.  I  have disseminated your letters. Have you

any intention of travelling southwards this spring or summer?

If you come before July, by all means come by Cambridge, where

  shall be, or at least till the early part of June.
I

     We hope to get a magnetic expedition sent to the neighbour
hood of the South Pole, and magnetic observatories established

                 M. QUETELET. 1839.                  279

in various regions to observe the irregular simultaneous varia
tions, if they really are everywhere simultaneous. Capt. Boss

to command.      trust we have, after some struggle, engaged the

Admiralty to take it up.
I every year think of visiting Scotland again, but somehow
Ithe summer always finds its own employment.
                                              hope it will

not ever be so.

                 Yours always, most truly W. WHEWELL.

                          TRINITY GoLLEcE, CAMBRIDGE, May 26, 1839.

MY DEAR M. QUETELET,

                       * it %                        4k

       I Ido not think have any scientific  news for you. Since
I ceased to be President of the Geological
                                            ISociety, have been

very little in. London, and have not heard that anything remark

able is going on. The most remarkable discussion in Geology

since my reign is one concerning the geological position of

Devonshire and Cornwall, which Sedgwick and Murchison have

entirely revolutionized.

     Up to the end of my Presidentship you will find a view of

Iour proceedings in my speech which send you. Sheepshanks

is here, busily employed in making out the Longitude of Bagdad

from the measurements of the Euphrates expedition; he bids me

say that he intends to write to you soon.

     Peacock has received a very valuable appointment in the
Church, being made Dean of Ely. This is bestowed upon him

by the Ministry; it will not prevent his continuing to ,be, as

he is at present, Professor of Mathematics and Astronomy.

   I send along with this a small packet which may serve to
Irecall me to the remembrance of Madame Quetelet, and, hope,

all the more agreeably from being associated with the name

of Go'the, whom she and you knew and loved so much. Last

Isummer at vacant hours translated Herman and Dorothea into

English, retaining the verse and the phraseology as faithfully
I Ias possible, and
                 have printed a few copies of which                  beg
                                I am afraid she never did
Madame Quetelet to accept one.

280 REv. R. JONES. 1839.

us the honour to learn our language, but probably she knows the
original, and you may testify to her that the translation is very
faithful.

     With my kind regards, and in the hope of seeing you,
                    Believe me, very truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR M. QUETELET,                LONDON, June 19, 1839.

                     *¥  ii-

          We are just going to send out the magnetical expedition,

I Iof which think wrote to you. Herschel especially has given

a great deal of time and attention to the work of drawing up
the instructions, and the observers are now, or soon will be,

with Professor Lloyd at Dublin, learning the use of their instru
ments under his instructions. The East India Company also
assists us by establishing magnetical observatories at three or
four stations within their territory. Along with magnetical

Iobservations meteorological are to be combined, and have no

doubt the expedition will be the cause of great service to

Science.
                         i` ¥ fl" *

JMY' DEAR ONEs,          NUBEMBERG, July 14, 1839.

Something was said about my visiting you again at

Haileybury in July; but, when you look at the date of this,
Iyou will see that such a plan is no longer very likely.
                                                            had
Isome intention of taking a flight to Munich when saw you,
Iand one or two letters, which was supplied with about that
Itime, determined me to do so without delay.  believe it is
Iwell that did not consult you on the subject, or your strong

conviction of the grievous harm which inevitably arises from

meddling with German metaphysicians might have shaken my
I Ipurpose.
believe          go among them pretty well secured by

a previous resolution not to adopt any of their fancies, and

                      REV. R. JONES. 1839.                                          281

I shall see what light their speculations will throw upon mine,
Iwhich, to tell you the truth,
                                      do not expect will be much,
I Ifor separate more and more from them as go along.
I have been employing myself this summer, since it was
Isummer, as did last'year; that
                      I
                                                is,

                                                      I
                                        travelling about from place

to place, and when found convenient quarters, stopping for

a day or two to work at my book. The part that am now

revising alarms me sorely by its abstract and almost mathe

matical aspect; and, what worse, can neither do without this
                          it          I
part nor make         more popular. It
                                 is           is

                                  it          I
                                                            a

                                                                it is
                  it                        about the metaphysical

principles of mechanics and astronomy, and                                       number of the

more weighty questions turn upon it. All can do to put                                     is it

in such shape that idle readers may pass over                                    as quickly
          a

as they like. But in truth            puts me out of heart about the

reception of the book; but that may be as may. The book
                                            it
                                                  it

                                                        it
written, and the world must make of what can; and they

~shall, please God, have next spring.

     How do you and your books go on? But in truth suppose                       I
they do not go on: for you seem to have renounced, at least

for the present, the idea of answering Blake; and your velleity,

as the French say, with regard to something on the education

question appeared to be hardly strong enough to take the shape

of action.  I     wish very much you would do something in the

latter subject; for the public opinion      very strong, while their
                                             you can put this in
                          it, is

                                         if is

                                            I

                                                                      a
case, as  it      usually stated, not; and                                          it

              is                                                                         is a

very good and striking form for them, which have no doubt

          if                you must needs earn good share
you can you set about

of gratitude from good churchmen and good conservatives.

is  wish you could be here with me to see such an odd old

 I
town of the middle ages as this is. The king of Bavaria, who
   a poet in his way, has written poetical address to Nuremberg,
                                      a
                                                        is
in which he calls     it  the Pompeii of the middle ages; and

something of the kind. The population                                            protestant, but the

churches have preserved more catholic splendour than in almost

any catholic city.

         shall be very glad you can find few minutes to write
to me and tell me of anything that going on in the world while
I

                             if

                                                          is
                                                                              a

282 ,              SIR c. B. AIRY. 1839.

I If Iam-absent.   can do anything for you, or get you any
Iinformation at Munich, where shall be for two or three weeks,

pray let me know.

Give my love to Mrs Jones, and to the Herschels when
Iyou see them.
                   expect to be back in the beginning of August,

---at least, in time for the Birmingham meeting.

                                  Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                      Tam. CoLL. Oct. 11, 1839.

MY DEAR AIRY,                     a

            if #                        ~16
                                                                    'k

                                                        I
With regard to the other question of your Tracts,                                                        can

give you a very decided opinion, so far as my own views are

concerned.  have always thought rapid change of the books
            I

                   is
                               a
read among us to be serious evil. The best part of the effect

of such books the students' getting to see what are the diffi

culties in them which require labour and thought, and then

labouring and thinking till they get over the difficulties. This
cannot be done in few years. Your Tracts are hard enough
                   a

to occupy several generations of tutors and pupils before they

are thoroughly mastered and made familiar. They are now

well established among us, and,   if  they continue to be so for

ten or twenty years longer, they will do us far more good than

any other books can do. If something else were to be put in the

place of them, even by you, giving your attention and time to the

subject, would not be so useful to us as what we now have.
I

             it
                                 if

                                                                                                     is
am therefore clearly for reprinting them with as little alteration

as your conscience will allow you to introduce. There                                                    matter

enough for the best mathematicians we are likely to have for the

next dozen years; and, there rise one or two geniuses who do

not find them hard enough, or sufficiently accommodated to the

last results of the best mathematical inquiries, such anomalous

bodies will, by the very anomaly of their nature, find nutriment

and exercise for themselves.at
                                          a s Is

                                  Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                      M. QUETELET. 1840.                                               283

                                                              *7, SUFFOLK STREET, June 12, 1840.

MY DEAR SEDewreK,

    I I Ido not know where you are, but suppose that if write

to Cambridge my letter will reach you in no very long time.

IThere is a circumstance of which you ought to be apprized, and

which had rather you should learn from me than from public

report. You will be alarmed at such a preface, but the matter
Iis not very serious.
                       have gratified myself by dedicating my
Ibook to you, and suppose it will make its way to your door in a
Ifew days at the utmost, as have already got a copy. Receive it

graciously, and read it indulgently when you have time.
I have a letter from Murchison written in high spirits from
IBerlin.
          go to Rotterdam to-morrow, and have only just time to

get through indispensable work.

                                                    Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR M. QUETELET,                                     DUSSELDORF, June 28th, 1840.

                                             1:        *-l(-
I
       I

                           a

                         it

                        I
                             il-I

                                               it, it
   left copy of my Philosophy directed for you when

quitted England, and hope has reached you by this time.

When you have time to read you will find that, when spoke
                                                          I
                                                             I

                                                                             is
of your finding too idealistic, this was not because supposed

you inclined to materialism.                        do not know how the case may be

with you, but most of my own countrymen have been of late in
the habit of understanding the maxim, that "all our knowledge

derived from experience," in such a sense as to overlook the

importance of ideas, and                            one main object of my book to
                     I
correct this error.
                               it

                                       is
                       should be. glad to receive from you. any

                                                          it,

                                                                  if

                                                                          I
remarks which may occur to you in reading and, there are

any of your friends who take an interest in the subject sufficient to
'
                     I iIt,
 write critique upon
                                      if
a                                                should much like to see the article.

should be perfectly satisfied even the critique were very adverse

to my doctrines, for am very desirous of seeing .what answer

can be made to my arguments.

                     as a?
                                                 a     a

284 AROHDEACON HARE. 1840;

                     15, Sorrow; STREET, July 7, 1840.

MY DEAR LUBBOCK,
I am not much surprised that you do not like my Philo
Isophy at first.
                  have some hope that, if you read it, it may

in some measure improve upon you; the second volume is
I think, less at variance with the metaphysical opinions commonly
Icurrent, which are probably yours.
                                     should have been very

glad if any opportunity had occurred of doing justice to your

Ilabours in physical astronomy, but think you will in reading

my book see that they did not come in my way. My object in

the work does not at all include the history of Science; and the

Philosophy of Science, in my interpretation of the phrase, is the

discussion of the Fundamental Ideas which it involves. All my

references to facts in the history of science are given as examples

only of the processes which they include, and it was necessary

for me to take the most plain and familiar examples which

I Icould find; the more so, as was writing not for scientific so

much as for general, or at least metaphysical readers. Speaking

of Pontécoulant, have you seen the severe and contemptuous

Icriticism of him which Arago has published?
         do not quite see the purport of your remark about the

formula for the curve of rise and fall of the tide. In the ex
pression A cos (nt + a) + B cos (nt + B), do you mean the two

terms to refer to the moon and sun, or to the semidiurnal and

diurnal tide ? In the former case, m and n are very nearly equal,
in the latter, it is impossible to obtain any general formulae,

because the epochs differ at different places. No general formula

Ican be given except the one have given. It must be modified
I Iat particular places, as think have said; certainly intended to

say. Always yours, very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                     Tam. Conn, Sept. 22. [1840]

MY DEAR HARE,     .

IYour letter reacht me a day or two since, but  have
Ibeen so constantly in motion that was not able to reply to it

             AROHDEAOON HARE. 1840.                                285

Isooner.  am now here with the prospect of staying, with slight

intervals of absence, for some time; and`I shall be quite glad to

I Ireceive your designs and to give you the best judgment and best
advice that can about them.            must however warn you that

Iyou must not trust too much to my knowledge of the subject.
   have lately had occasion to discover--having had to give advice

about some small architectural reforms--how very imperfect my

skill when applied in detail; as, indeed, reasonable practicalis,
                                       it

                                          a

                                           if
man like you will naturally suppose that must be. But you
                                                                   a I I if
will let me see your designs, and especially   you will tell me

what are the doubts which you wish to have resolved,                       can,

perhaps, either from what know myself or from what can
                           I

learn from others, help you in some degree; and will be great
                                              it

Ifpleasure to me to try to do something in so good a cause.                  you

set about the task in the spirit which you express, you cannot

fail to prevent mischief and to improve the character of what you

transmit to posterity.

am glad to hear             the progress of Herstmonceux church,
aI I                    of
     it                       it

                                   is
and of your good hope of what to be done. The wooden tracery,

authorized as you describe           to be, cannot fail to be a great

advantage to the edifice.  I  shall like much to see your church

when has undergone its reformation.

grieved at the death of your late bishop`, for knew him to
                                               aI
be most amiable and worthy man; but mainly because knew
                                                   is
how much you would grieve.           somewhat rejoice at the selection
             it                                    II

                     is I
of his successor, for involved the rejection of certain savage

exclusive party spirit, which quite inconsistent with any good

government of the Church and State, and which                  vehemently
urged by the underlings of the governing party.
                                                             If am not

mistaken, you already know enough of him to like him.

                                                               aa
             Ia
                             a
                                 is
     You ask whether am idle now that have got rid of my
Philosophy. Not at all. This not a world for people to be idle
in, who see, or fancy they see, their task. have got various plans
to execute, and some which am setting about without delay. In

some of my schemes shall come to matters where have much
             I                         II
                  I                              I

          1  Dr Otter; he was succeeded by Dr Shuttleworth.

286 sra R. I. MUROHISON. 1840.

more confidence in your judgment than in my own; and then

I shall apply to you without reserve, for you are a man full of

business, and therefore, as our dear and admirable' Sir John

[Malcolm] used to say, sure to have leisure for your friends.
                               is a s is

                    Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

I am here for Fellowship examinations.  We have eight

vacancies, which is rather too much; but we want hard men to
Iwork.
        hope we shall find them.

                    Common, GLASGOW, Sep. 18, 1840.

MY DEAR MURCHISON,

The suggestion which you mentioned to me to-day was so

utterly different from any thing which had ever entered my mind,

Ithat could not at the moment put my thoughts in order to reply

to it with any statement of grounds, and could only express my

extreme repugnance to the proposal, my conviction that it would

not contribute to the prosperity of the Association, and my general
I Ipersuasion of its not being advisable.
                                  must try, before leave

Glasgow, to make you perceive that these impressions are very

Istrong in my mind, and hope that they are well-founded.
   IMy only pretensions to such a position are what may have

done as a cultivator of science, and my constant attendance upon

I Ithe business of the Association. With regard to the former point,
   venture to say that can be an impartial and exact judge in my

Iown case, and know perfectly well that there is nothing of such
Ia stamp, in what have attempted, as entitles me to be considered

Ian eminent man of science. In the study of the tides, which is

my only pretension, have voluntarily given up all the profounder

parts of the subject, and confined myself to collecting laws of
phenomena in such a manner as it could be done with little of

my own labour. My History and Philosophy of Science are dis

I Iqualifications, not qualifications, for my being put at the head

of the scientific world; for cannot expect, know it is impos

sible, that men of science should assent to my views at present:
and those who have laboured hard in special fields will naturally

sm R. I. MURCHISON. 1840.                                    287

feel indignant at having a person put at their head, recommended
Ionly by what they think vague and false general views.
                                                             be--

lieve this would do much to disgust and repel men of science

from the meeting.

You spoke of my being a Lancashire man, as a recommenda

tion to my being President, if the meeting were held in that
IItcounty.
will not so operate...             have lived little in the county,

.have no connections in it except my own family, and few

 acquaintances. It could only produce failure and ridicule to have

me put in a place which should be occupied by some person

ofgreat local position, influence and popularity--and that in
Ita county so populous, rich, and scientific.
                                               would be considered

as evidence that you could not find any person coming nearer to

the usual conditions, and likely to give the business its usual

attractions.

    You spoke of my being able to preside over, and, if necessary,
to control a large body. Nobody can do that if he be not

Ipersuaded that he has the stronger part of the body with him.
   should not have that persuasion, for on many points--almost

all questionable points--I should be on the losing side, (for

instance the encroachments of the Statistical Section--the scenes
Iof display, &c.)
                   should be more likely to irritate than to calm

the assemblage, when such points came into controversy.

   I IMy own repugnance would not decide me, if thought had

Ia duty to the Association, but the repugnance is very strong.
   have in some measure wound up my account with physical

science, and turned my thoughts into another field, in which

I Imay, perhaps, do something, but in which, at any rate, shall
Iprobably employ myself seriously for the rest of my life.
                                                            have

been on this very account gradually unwinding myself from

the engagements of the material sciences, and cannot think,

I Iwithout terror and extreme annoyance, of being again plunged
in the entanglements  have left. It is not that do not still
I I Ilove science; but in it have done all can; must go now to
" fresh fields and pastures new."
I IBut dare say am taking more pains than is necessary
I Ito convince you that should never do for your President.
                                                             am

288 SIR R. I. MURCHISON. 1840.

not a man of science, not a man of business, not a man of popular
manners, not a man of weight in Lancashire. What other

disqualifications can you require?
     You will not suspect me of undervaluing your good opinion,

and that of the other friends who have overlooked all these
                    I Iam glad have friends who can overlook
disqualifieations.

them, for they are obvious enough.
      Believe me, dear Murchison, yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                         Tam. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Sep. 25, 1840. `

MY DEAR Munonrson,

    I certainly hoped that my letter to you would have put

an end to the project of making me President of the British

IAssociation for the ensuing year; and if had dreamt that it
Iwould prove insuflicient for that purpose, should have taken

other steps which might have been more effectual. My repug

nance to the office, and my conviction of my not being the proper

                    continue unabated. It
person for  I I it,                        however, impossible for
                                   is
me not to be gratified, and in some degree encouraged, by thea
                                          I
general choice falling upon me so decidedly as you say; andis,
                                               I
having laboured without shrinking for the Association up to the     is

present time, am unwilling to take any step which may place            it,

the managing body in serious difficulty.                    (I Iwill add that, from
                                                                II
the opinion have of the Cornwallians and Devonians, would

more willingly take part in next year's meeting, held in that

region, than in any other.                     so far different
    But this resolution to meet at Plymouth

from what was contemplated when            left Glasgow, that am

ignorant of the circumstances which bear upon          and which

must in great degree determine the prosperity of the meeting.
a

Before, therefore, any thing       considered as fixed, so far as am

concerned, you must allow me to make a few inquiries.

Was there an express invitation from Plymouth? Can they

receive our Sections conveniently? Can they find a place for

our general meeting without taking the Theatre?        think a

theatre much to be avoided.)

                          PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1840.        289

Have the Vice-Presidents, Lord Eliot, Sir C. Lemon, and

Sir T. Acland been consulted, and do they cordially assent to
If Itheir appointment?
                               they do, have no doubt the meeting
Iwill be very satisfactory; but have as little, that either Sir C. or

Sir T. ought to be President.                        I take for
     The Secretaries for Plymouth are good men.

Igranted that they have been consulted and are willing to work.
   presume also that there is no danger of any change in our

permanent officers--General Secretaries, Treasurer, and Assistant

Secretary.

   IThere is another matter which think ought not to be passed

over. It was impossible to listen to the proceedings of the

Statistical Section on Friday without perceiving that they in

volved exactly what it was most necessary and most desired to

exclude from our proceedings. Is' there any objection to the

President declaring in his place, in the most emphatic manner,

that the mode in which this Section has been conducted is incon

sistent with the objects and character of the Association?

   IThere are other inquiries, which should like to make, as

to what has been the general character and course of the Glasgow

meeting; but as these are not essential to the present purpose,

I shall leave them for another time.

My engagements here do not allow me to be absent between

Sept. 17 and Oct. 2, which must be recollected in fixing the time

Iof the meeting if am an officer.
   I IAs have said, must beg of you to consider nothing as

Iconcluded on my part till have information on these points.

Believe        me,  dear  M.,
            '
                               Truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

I Pray take charge of a book which is left for me at Killarmont.
  will tell the butler there to convey it to you.

                               Tam. Conn, Sept. 30, 1840.

MY DEAR Forums,

          You expressed an interest about Gregory's election, so

I am glad to be able to give you the first intelligence of it.

w. 11.                                               19

290 sm R. Muncnrsorr. 1840.

I am just returned from the deliberative meeting of the Seniors,

and the election will take place to-morrow morning at nine.

Along with Gregory we elect seven others--Heath (a brother

of our friend), Hodgson, Frere, Edleston, Mathison, Eddis, and

Ellis the Senior Wrangler.
I suppose by this time you are returned to Edinburgh, so
I Ishall send this there.
                           was much obliged by your letter from

Glasgow. My election as President was contrary both to my
Iexpectation and my wishes; but this say to you only: and, the
I Ithing being done, shall make the best of it as well as know
Ihow.
       was glad to find that a good number of stars, who did

Inot shew at first, made their appearance as the time went on.
   should have liked very much to hear Airy's exposition of his

theory of Brewster's "new property". Was B. satisfied?
                                                           sa
              it
Ia Ifind myself called upon for new edition of my Mechanics.
                  is '1'                  a

If you have any improvements to propose,I        shall be much
                                   is an     I

                                                      it

                                                               is
obliged to you to mention them. My general notion to try

to fit the book more for practical men, and to make correspond

with work which Willis very soon to publish on Kinematics,

0r Pure Machinery, as have called the subject. By the way,

looking into my book of Philosophy,          see reason to believe
Ifthat have again done you injustice.        I

                                                 it

                                                         I
                                             comes in your way,

and you find  so, you must forgive me till                            have the

opportunity of repairing the wrong. Believe me,

                                          Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                          Tam. Conn. CAMBRIDGE, Oct.                                                                                        1840.
I
                     is

              I

                                    I
                                                               it
                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                        2,
MY DEAR MURCHISON,

      It quite clear that you, according to your irresistible

way of settling such matters, have made      fit and proper that

   should be the President of the British Association next year,
and therefore have nothing to do but to think how can best

fulfil the requirements of the office.       do not at all assent to

your general doctrine, on which you have founded my appoint

ment, of an alternation of men of science and men of rank; for

         sm R. MURCHISON. 1840.                        291

I think that the most proper president in every case is a man

of local consequence: and the precedents of Dublin, Oxford and

ICambridge are against your alternation and not for it. Still

less can imagine that, if you were to have a supposed man of
science, I was to be the man. But let all that pass. You shall

find me as conformable as your Russian Devonians, and shall go

on triumphantly from Nijni Novgorod to the Land's End, so

far 'as any exertions of mine can contribute to your triumph.

I IAs told you before, have great confidence in the Western
Imen, and certainly think that Plymouth is by far the most

proper place of our meeting for the ensuing year. How far the

men of science will shew their good will by gathering round our

standard there, it is of course for them to decide. We ofiicers
can only give them the opportunity of doing so if they choose.
It will not be difficult to make it appear to any body that

requires to be instructed on the subject, that we have now,

Imore than we ever had before, solid and important work to do,

which cannot be done by any body else; and have no doubt

we can find the means of doing it. As to the Statistical Section

Iscruple, cannot get over the utter incongruity of its proceed

ings with all our professions and all our principles. Who would

venture to propose (I put it to Chalmers, and he allowed the

proposal to be intolerable) an ambulatory body, composed partly
of men of reputation, and partly of a miscellaneous crowd, to go

round year by year, from town to town, and at each place to

discuss the most inflammatory and agitating questions of the

day? Yet this is exactly what we have been doing for several
Iyears.
         must say plainly, that rather than be concerned in

Isuch a wild and dangerous absurdity, in defiance of solemn pro

fessions to the contrary, would utterly renounce the Association

with all its advantages. You have made me your President,
Iwith no good will of mine; in everything else
Istructed by you, and labour, as well as        will be in

                                          know how, for the
Iadvantage of the Association, in any way in which can aid it:
I Ibut will make no agreement with you that will not denounce,

in the most public and emphatic manner, this gross violation
Ifof our fundamental constitution.
                                    we offend people by recurring

                                                19--2

292 LORD NORTHAMPTON. 1840.

I Ifto our professed principles, cannot help it.  our Association

does not suit them, when conducted on its only rational grounds,'

let them make one of their own.                          ..
I do not wish you to imagine that this is my sole, or even

main, reason for wishing not to be the president; on the contrary,

Ia thorough sense of my unfitness, such as tried to convey to
Iyou, remains quite undiminished. But, if am to be president,

I must at least guard myself from being misunderstood on this

I Ipoint.                                                in ill humour
        do not know whether  you will think write                        '
                             it be so, be assured it is  nothing which
about this matter; but, if

will prevent my cooperating with you in the most cordial manner,

and trying to imitate the spirit and vigour which you have shewn
Ifin all your proceedings.
                             this long piping time of peace has

prevented your being a great general, as under other circum

stances you would have been, it has not prevented your making

a Russian Campaign more successful far than Napoleon's, and

then returning, faster than he did, to consolidate the state at
Ihome--I trust with far happier fortune. So
                                                         agree to serve

under or over you, as you please, and am, dear Mr Secretary,

Your dutiful President elect,

                                              W.' WHEWELL.

                             Tami" Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 5, 1840.

DEAR LORD NORTHAMPTON,

I am very much obliged by your letter, and your view
Iof the position of the British Association.
                                              am quite of your

opinion, that the success of the meeting at Glasgow was such

as to promise a highly satisfactory sitting at Plymouth; although

I was obliged to leave you before the business had arrived at

Ithose occasions which mainly called up the interest and. the
confidence of those who attended.     certainly could have wished

that some other person than myself had been placed at the head
of the Association for the ensuing year; and this, not at. all

from any doubts of the progress of the institution, but from my
Iknowledge of my own true position.
                                      cannot conceal from

                   LORD NORTHAMPTON. 1840.         2`93

Imyself that have no just claim, and cannot be considered by

judicious persons as having a just claim, to be placed upon a

level with the persons who, as men of eminent science, or as

I Ipatrons of science, have hitherto filled the president's chair.

Nobody knows better than do, how little have done in science;

and my future exertions will probably be mainly directed to do

some little in sciences which do not come within the scope of the

Association. Of my History of Science the principal notice

Itaken by men of science has been of a hostile kind; and do

not think that any practical cultivators of special sciences will

Ifeel any deference for a person who has presumed to speculate

about them all. But though would very gladly have avoided
Ithis position,
                   shall not fail to give my best attention and
Iexertion to its duties, being once placed in it: and am very

Ifar from insensible to the pleasure of being proposed by you--

a person whom so cordially regard, and whom all the members

of the Association have so much reason to look to with gratitude.

The expression of your good opinion, and that of other persons

Iwhom esteem, have made my appointment 2. source of satis

faction to me, as well as of dissatisfaction.

   I have no fear that, with your assistance and that of the

other persons who are associated with me in the direction of

the Association, we shall be able to conduct it through the

ensuing year in such a way as to make it answer its purposes

as well as it has ever done. There
                            I       however, one point, on
                                    is,
                                      I            think something
which  am far from satisfied, in which
     I
should be done, and about which cannot consult any one soI

properly as yourself, who have repeatedly presided over theI
                I
meetings under difficult circumstances, always obtaining my

admiration, and believe that of every body else, by your temper,
fairness, and judgment. It
                            becoming more evident every
                            is

                                               it
'meeting that the concourse which the Association produces
                                                   I
used by various persons for purposes which         cannot recognise,is

and which doubt whether we ought knowingly and with fore

sight to further.  have therefore some misgivings when see

a meeting upon the stormy question, which now agitates the

church of Scotland to its very foundation, combined so closely

294 PROF. J. 1). FORBES. 1840.

I Iwith our assembly. About this, say, have doubts. But
I have no doubts respecting the propriety of having another great

question of social economy and legislation, which produces almost

Ias great a storm as the other, agitated within one of our Sections.
   cannot doubt that this is an utter violation of all the principles

Ion which we set out, and of all the professions we have made

about our objects and maxims. Of course refer to the question
Ifof the Scotch and English poor law.
                                       such discussions be

allowed, there is nothing in legislation or politics which can be

consistently excluded. Dr Chalmers made an attempt to justify

or mask this impropriety by saying that it was an example of

the value of numbers. By the same rule we might have a

discussion of schedule A of the Reform Bill, or of the probable

majority of ministers on any party question. The absurdity of

a                 think, undeniable, and the inconsistency of such

          if

            iIs,
such a plea

discussions with our fundamental constitution. And this not
                                       a
                                                        is
question of form merely. For what kind of institution do we

become, we allow ourselves to be made an ambulatory meeting

for agitating in assemblies, when both eminent and notorious

men (Dr Chalmers and Robert Owen) address miscellaneous
crowd on the sorest and angriest subjects which occur among

the topics of the day? If we cannot get rid of this character,

most assuredly shall be disposed to make my connection with
             I

the Association as brief as can do, without shewing myself
                  I
                         I
indifferent to the good opinion 0f friends like yourself, who are

goodnatured enough to think that can be of service to the

genuine interests of the body.

                                Tam. Conn, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 25, 1840.

My DEAR FORBES,

am only just returned to college out of Suffolk, where
II

       it

             I
                                          I

                                                 I
your last note was forwarded to me to my great content.               do

not think    likely shall visit London within the next ten

days, so have little chance of seeing you there. Can you not

run down to Cambridge for one day, or two, or three? should like

to talk to you about my plan of entirely modifying the new

                  PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1841.                     295

edition of my Mechanics so as to make it a. book for civil

engineers. It is the only possible course for the present time,

on grounds of the highest principle, as well as convenience. Also,

Ias you may well suppose, shall be glad to confer with you about
Inecessary and contingent truths, for am quite delighted that

Iyou take so well to the investigation of the grounds of a differ
ence between the two kinds.      shall probably find some oppor

tunity before long of doing what you suggest.

Have your views of teaching civil engineering, or your hopes

Iof not needing to think of such things, undergone any change?
   should like to hear that any thing reasonable had been done

on that subject.

                                 Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                           Tam. Conn, Cmamnen, March 12, 1841.

MY DEAR FORBES,
          IHow are you all this while that have heard nothing
Iof you?
              was a good way towards the border in January,

but not near enough to hear any thing which was passing on

            I
                it,

                     it I
                           I
your side of      except the noise of your church controversy,

which makes itself heard.     went into Yorkshire to look at a.

College living1 which  had some intention of taking; but on
examination thought
                       too laborious. It would have interfered

with my purpose of employing myself about the business of my

professorship, which you will see by the accompanying pamphlet

have been in some measure pursuing, and wished to pursue
I I_
farther.I

hope you got the new edition of my Mechanics whichI

directed to be sent you. You see how           has been sweated
                                      it
                                                  it

                                                        is
down into a little book by the process to which           has been

subjected.    am printing my Engineering, and Willis printing

a book about Mechanism, so we shall between us do something
towards giving a form to that science. How goes on your

meteorology, optical and other?   hope to be able to prove
1

                               I
       The living of Masham, then vacant by the promotion of Mr Waddington to
the Deanery of Durham.

296 SIR R. MURCHISON. 1841.

that the tide is much affected by the barometer of theday before.

This will much improve our predictions.  ,7

Do you come south soon? Let us see you when you do.

                            Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR Mas MURCHISON,                   T. 0. Mar. 16 [1841].

I Iam very glad that am able to do what you wish in
Ithe most important point.
                            had begged Professor Smyth to
Igive me a few copies of his "Sheridan",l that might be able
to give it to friends who bad taste enough to wish to have it;
Iand shall delight him much by telling him that you are one
Iof the number.
                 inclose a copy along with this.
I Ilament very much that cannot do myself the favour of
Iprofiting by your other proposal.
                                    am engaged here the .whole

of next week, and must resign, much against my will, the

pleasant party which you offer me. It would give me all the

more pleasure to meet the Archbishop and Miss G. Harcourt,

Iafter being, as very unwillingly was, as near them as York
Iwithout seeing them, when went down in January last to

look at my Yorkshire living, that was to have been. But

I could not make out to my satisfaction that it would do for
I Ime or for it; so wait another chance.

   I should like, too, very much to hear your husband finish

the history of his last Russian campaign before he makes

another visit to Archangel. But this is not to be, so far as
I I Ican see.
believe must remain till Easter in the region

of clunch and gault, rejoicing only that there are persons who

write charming Quarterly Reviews of Silurian regions far away,

and give us picturesque descriptions of cities, fairs, embassies,

droshkies, postboys and peasants, that we shall never see.

Believe me always, yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

    1 Mr Smyth, Professor of History, had privately printed a memoir of She
ridan, and distributed copies of it. In a letter to Dr Whewell Professor Smyth
remarked with respect to Sheridan, "it is pleasing to me to observe how strong is
the hold which this extraordinary man still has on the minds of those who can at

all remember what he once was."

             SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. .1841.                  297

                  UNIVERSITY CLUB, Surronx 81, April 1st, 1841.

MY DEAR QUETELET,
                            ae s o s

Your system of simultaneous observations on the annual

phenomena in all parts of your country must give interesting

results, and will probably lead people to do that systematically

and generally, which they have so long been doing in a partial

and imperfect manner. But you must necessarily have a great

Ideal of trouble in arranging and comparing the results of your
enquiries.   have no doubt that, if you examine your Belgic

Itides, among other things you will find that they have a very
marked dependence upon the barometer.  find that at Bristol

the water (at high water) rises one foot for a fall of one inch in the

Ibarometer, and the same thing takes place at other ports. At

first thought that the elevation of the water corresponded to

Ithe fall of the barometer some hours previous, but find that,
Iso'far as can determine, the effect upon the tide corresponds

most nearly with the contemporaneous barometer.

We have very excellent accounts from Van Diemen's Land.

Ross .has established his magnetic Observatory there, and is now
Isailing towards the South Pole.
                                  am glad that your work,

Iflur l'Homme, is translated, and is going to be published  here

with notes.  shall look to your notes with great interest.

With my kindest regards to Mad. Quetelet,

             Believe me, most truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                   Tum. COLL. CAMBRIDGE, April 22, 1841.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

       I am afraid your ground for calling me goodnatured is
Ivery insufficient, for do not know that you ever asked me to
Ido any thing for you before: and have hardly known enough
Iof children to know whether like them or not. But certainly,
I Iso long as like any body's children, it is probable that shall
Ilike yours; and
                  shall be very glad that the strange and
Iunsatisfactory condition in which stand to them, of not having ,

298  sm .7. F. w. HERSCHEL. 184.1.

a god-child among them, should be removed. So pray consider
me as the sponsor of your little girl when you present her for

christening, and. suppose my best wishes for her temporal and

Ieternal welfare to be with her, if am not there myself.
   I IBut in truth do not know why should not run down
Ito you for the day, and witness the ceremony myself.
                                                       must

leave Cambridge and go to London about that time, within a
Iday or two sooner or later; and do not see that it will make
Iany great difference in time, if perform one oscillation to
IHawkhurst and back before come to rest in London. May
Ithe first will, think, suit me as well as any other day. So
Iexcept hear of some change in your plans before that time,
I Ishall come to you then. Shall be in time for the ceremony
Icoming to you by the coach on Saturday?
                                          hope so; for
I cannot leave Cambridge sooner than sometime on Friday.
I am glad to hear of the excellent people that are to be my

sisters on the occasion.

To know that you are reading with care my Philosophy,

makes me feel the strongest interest to see what your reflexions

Iwill be. Whatever they are, shall be sure to learn much from

Ithem, (I believe you will not suspect me of saying such things

for the phrase's sake), and shall really be relieved by seeing
some other view than my own presented with a calm and earnest

Ilove of truth. My own doctrines quite haunted me till had

got them put down upon paper, and then fairly shot out into

Ithe world through the press; and even now feel a sort of

satisfaction at having done, once for all, a great task which had
I Ibeen to me inevitable.
                           had no rest till had thought it all
Iout, and am right glad to have it 011' my hands.
                                                   shall be

curious beyond measure to see the other side from you. My
argument is all in a single sentence. You must adopt such a

view of the nature of scientific truth as makes universal and

necessary propositions possible; for it appears that there are

Isuch, not only in arithmetic and geometry, but in mechanics,
physics and other things.  know no solution of this difficulty
Iexcept by assuming amt-11' grounds; but am most willing

to look at any proposed solution. But we can talk of such

          SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1841.                      299

Imatters hereafter, if it be necessary.  am now busy about

Iother things, systems of moral philosophy and the like, which

nevertheless are well worth attending to, as think you are as

Iready to allow as can be to assert.

You must thank Lady Herschel for recollecting my repre--

sentation of my anomalous position with regard to your babes;

you must tell me whether my coming to you on Saturday, May 1,

will fall in with your notions and hers of the significance of the

occasion, and you must believe me always most truly yours

(including hers),                          W. WHEWELL.

                                                                                   T. 0. June 26, [1841].

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

    IIt has added to every joy of my life to know that might

Ireckon on your sympathy, and most of all to find yours and Lady
Herschel's so completely with me in this.  can answer for

Cordelia's readiness to love and admire both of you, as she well
Imay do; and
                   hope the time will soon come when she can

shew her feelings towards you by her personal intercourse.
   IYour review makes me too proud, as have told Lady
IHerschel; but also it makes me feel as if had been too con
Itentious, when you differ from me so gently.
                                               really believe
Ithat did write a great deal of it in a spirit of needless pug
Inacity.
          knew that my opinions were opposed to those generally

current, and was prompted by that recollection to sharpen my
If Idoctrines and my arguments as much as possible.
                                                            reach

Ianother edition will be more calm and moderate; and especially
Iall that have said about the Edinburgh Reviewer, if he holds

his tongue till then, shall be erased.

As to your notion that the irresistible impulse to generalise

will account for universal truths without having recourse to

I Iideas, shall weigh it well before pronounce upon it; but at
Ifirst sight do not see any reason to despair of our coming very
Inear each other.
                   think it very likely that a great number of

Imy most important doctrines may be expressed in language

consistent with your view: but, as have said, this is a matter

300            sin J. F. w. HERSCHEL.. 1841.

Irequiring steady thought, and at present  have no head for
the " bitter metaphysics ", which you very naturally express your

own weariness of. So we will sleep on our arms, and think of
Iother things at present.
                           hold myself in the mean time the

happiest of "the Reviewed".

               Always most truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                Unrv. CLUB, July 25, 1841.

MY_ DEAR HERsanL,
     I am here on my way to Plymouth, and want to have as
Igood a story to tell there as
                                can contrive. Among other
Imatters, shall be very glad if we can devise any good schemes

for employing the money of the British Association upon worthy

and promising objects; for it ought to be spent and not saved,

and with good management we may get money's worth out of

it. Meteorology appears to me one of the subjects in which

we may labour most fitly, since the labour of discussing such

observations is so great, and the progress hitherto made so

small. Can you suggest any tasks of this kind which might be

put in the hands of commissioners with funds for calculators?

I found Birt at the R. S. yesterday, who told me he was

working for you, and had sent you some curves, the results of

his labours. Do you' want him to go on with his work, and do

you want any money for that purpose? In short, can you

suggest any thing which we British Associationers can do, that

Iis likely to be useful? do not like our meeting without such

I Iresults.
       am just returned from Ulleswater, where have been staying

Iat the house which you and visited some two years ago. The

I Ilake is as beautiful as ever, and the place in my eyes the happiest
in the world.  cannot easily tell you how delighted am at

the thought of Lady H. and Cordelia being friends, which they

appear to have made some progress in already.

   I have not yet had time to think over your Review as it
Ideserves. About space and time do not despair of our coming

to a compromise. Your notion of cause is to me new and

               . ' DEAN PEACOGK. 1841.  301

I Istriking, and will not say that may not hereafter adopt it
Iwholly or partly. Altogether am enchanted with the article.

        Always, my dear H., most truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                         Comsrou, Oct. 16, 1841.

MY DEAR PEACOCK,

      Y Your letter came upon me like a thunderclap altogether
unexpected. The active and generous friendship which you shew

Iin it is beyond measure grateful to me, and shall consider the

added conviction of such a friendship on your part as a great gain,

Iwhatever the result may be. In the mean time, shall do as

you recommend, and come to town immediately with my wife.

We shall probably be at Lord Monteagle's, 37, Lower Brook
IStreet.
          have written to Sir Robert Peel and to Mr Goulburn,
I Iand shall write other letters as fast as can; but hope to be in

London to-morrow evening, which will much expedite matters.

IOnce more, my dear Peacock, believe me that am much touched

and delighted with your cordial friendship, shewn in the warmth

with which you have adopted my interests, and am more than

ever,

                  Afl'ectionately yours, W. WHEWELL.

       ` 16, Burrow: Srnnsr, Oct. 19th, 1841.

MY DEAR PEACOCK,
       I wrote you a very hurried note the other day, but perhaps
Idid not tell you that was about to take your advice and come
Ito town.
           did so, and found a letter from Sir Robert Peel ofi'er
Iing me the Mastership.
                         accepted this yesterday, have seen

Sir Robert t0_--day, and am now going back to Ooniston by this

night's mail.

There has been much in the whole of this business to gratify

me :---most of all things, the warmth of good opinion, and the zeal

of exertion shewn by my friends :---and of all these most of all, my

dear Peacock, without any exception, your own friendly warmth

and zeal. Your goodwill was so cordially expressed and involved

302  LADY MURCHISON. 1 8 4 1.

so much of generous feeling that it made me very happy, and is
still one of the pleasantest parts of the good fortune which has

I I Ifallen to my lot.
         go into the North this evening, as
                                           have told you.  have

left Mrs Whewell there, and shall bring her to London about the

Iend of the month. She and are much obliged by your congratu
Ilations on that score, and am always, my dear Peacock,

                   Afi'ectionately yours, W. WHEWELL.

                   Coms'ros, Amsmsmn, Oct. 24, 1841.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

     No words of friendship are ever more grateful to me than

those which come from you, on any occasion, great or small. The

events of the last fortnight of my life have been great indeed, for
Ithey determine the whole course of my future.
                                                had had quite

Ienough of loneliness, and look for no regrets in losing that; but
   had hardly satiated myself with speculation, and do not find

myself drawn back into the bustle of active life without some

misgivings. But the task appears to lie upon me so as not to be
avoided, and there is much good to be done; so I take it hope

Ifully, and the more hopefully, if people like you hope good of
me. My kindest regards to Lady Herschel.   hope it will not

be long before she and Mrs Whewell know more of each other.

Trinity Lodge is spacious, whenever you are disposed to reknit

Iyour Cambridge recollections, which you and Lady Herschel have
not done since you were at the Antipodes.  hope all your bright

constellation of little stars in the school-room are shining with

their usual healthy light. Cordelia is not at my elbow, but, if she

were, would send her kindest regards to you and Lady Herschel.

                   Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                        TRINITY LODGE, Nov. 19, 1841.

   MY DEAR Mas MURCHISON,

      I Iconfess almost despair of your friend's friend, who

makes a new theory of the Universe, and myself coming to any

            SIR J. r. w. HERSCHEL. 1842.                                                                     303

common understanding. She says in the course of her specu

lations, that she wants an answer not in mathematical language,

Ibut in plain English; and as have accustomed myself to think

that on such subjects mathematical language is the very plainest

English which can be used to those that can understand          I                                                   and

                                                                            I it,
that no others are likely to make theories to any purpose, do

not know how am to find arguments which appear to me of anyII
weight, and which are likely to convince the fair theorist. But in

truth believe had better confess at once that put in my book
II I
        isall the best thinking at which could arrive, on the subject of
                   a

                     II
gravitation, and its being part of a wider law; and having done

this, have nothing to add on the subject of any special theory,

which not included in what have said there.

      was very sorry did not see you the other day when was
                I                                                                                            I

in Belgrave Square; but my visit was very brief, and was occupied

with the " Russian Campaign" of your husband, as we had agreed

that  was to be. In short time expect to be in London
I

   it

           I
                                       a

                                II
again, and then shall try to see you, hope with better fortune.

      took possession of my "Lodge" on Tuesday last :---a very

august mansion, when compared with the single room in which you

found me when you visited Cambridge, and worthy of being named

even by the side of your palaces in Belgrave Square.            I                                            shall be

very glad when you come to take leisurely survey of the interior
I
                                                             a
of this mansion for a few days; and so will Mrs Whewell. She

begs me to present to you her kind regards, and you know that

am

                'Always most truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                TRINITY LODGE, Jan.                      3,  1842.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,                                                                                     \

           Health and happiness to you and yours with the new year,
and with all other new years to the end of the century. Your
letter and its good wishes ought sooner to have been answered,
but such oughts go for even more than usual, with man who
has just got into a great house and a great office and trying to
puff himself out so as to fill both the one and the other. You
                   0,
                                                                        is a

304 SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1842.

Iwill perhaps have heard that have just had Jones here to help

me to execute one part of this design, and an admirable help he is

for such a case in every way. And now that we are by ourselves

Iagain, wish for nothing so much as-that some more of my old

friends would come here, and confirm the comfort of my present

I Icondition by connecting it with earlier times. This is the first

house which ever possessed, and is likely, think, to be the last,

Ifor do not know anything which has any chance of moving me
Ihence. Or rather this is the first house which have inhabited,
I Inot which have possessed; for possess, besides this, the house
"behind the Colleges," which you know as " Farish's House," and
I Iwhich
I IWhen
         was to have occupied before foresaw my destiny here.
         looked to that as my prospect, was in no small dismay

at the impossibility of finding room for my books or place for my
Iwriting table, and feared that should have had to give up alto
Igether the practice of writing.
                                  now sit in Bentley's chair and

listen to the ticking of Newton's clock, and write with as much
Icontentment as either of them can have had.
                                              do hope that

ILady Herschel and you will come and see us before it is very

long, but do not say much about such a plan now, because

I suppose such movements are only likely to take place in

summer.
I Iam glad to hear you get your Cape stars into order.
                                                         am
Itrying to do as much with the virtues and vices, but find them

Isomewhat refractory--the one quite as bad as the other in that

respect. Also cannot get out of my head a metaphysical conun

drum which you have put into it. In your review of my Phi

losophy you prove very clearly that, in mechanical causation cause

and effect are contemporaneous. Good :--uniform motion mea

sures time, and change of such motion takes place instantly when

force operates. But how are we to extend this to other causation

besides mechanical? A drug produces disease, not instantly,

but after a time. What is here the direct effect which is instan

taneous? Motive produces human action, not instantly, but after
a time. What effect does it produce instantly, and what is the

movement which measures time when no cause of change ope
I I Irates? do not know whether make you see my puzzle.
                                                         try

                          M. QUETELET. 1842.                                                              305

to solve and with that view am writing a paper for our Philo
I
          iIf it,

                     it I
                             sI

                                              it

                                                                                            a
sophical Society, but am afraid will not turn out worth much.

However,        can succeed in puzzling other persons as much as

   have puzzled myself,                   will be something.
                                       a
                                                       s

                                          TRINITY LODGE, March 21, 1842.

   MY DEAR QUETELET,

          hope by this time you have received the copies of the
ItAthenceum which you wished for.II
                                          was .very wrong in me to

forget to send you them; but, in truth, events succeeded each other

with great rapidity in my history after parted with you.                                                  was
                                          II
                                               I

                                                             Ia
                                                                  I
at that time looking to the future with some feelings of uneasi

ness, for found that moving out of college into small house

was likely to be far more disagreeable at first than had antici

pated. It appeared to me that should have no room for my

books, and no place for study; and had been so long married to

Trinity College that was painful to part from her, even for a
                          is, it
wife of a more affectionate character. But all my alarms were

soon dissipated; that soon after had taken the great step of
                                          II
marrying. Within a day or two of the time of my marriage, myI

predecessor quite unexpectedly resigned, and in a few days moreit
was Master of Trinity. You will easily conceive that was the
                                                     I is                                             I it
                                                                                                              I
situation of all others in the world which most desired, and even    a

now can hardly believe at all times that                                                       true.  wish you
   aI
would come here and add your testimony to the reality of the

change, and     bring Mad. Quetclet with you.                                                  have now a house
of my own                                                                                      you in a manner
which _may,     and good one, and can receive
                   hope, occupy you agreeably for                                                 short time, and
              it Ia
   shall think
                    a
I                   privilege for my wife to make the acquaintance

of yours. You speak of our coming to the Continent. It not
                                                                                                      is

impossible that we may do so, but fear we can hardly hope for

such pleasure this year. My new position and my new relatives

together occasion great number of new claims upon my time.
                    a
                       s                  it

                                                      s
                                                                   s

   w. 11.                                                     W. WHEWELL.
                                                                                   20

306 SIR e. B. AIRY. 1843.

     [The next three letters relate to the Tides; they will be found
readily intelligible by a student of the subject, though they lose
much interest by appearing without the replies of the Astronomer
Royal. These replies are preserved among Dr Whewell's papers,
and copies of them exist among the collection of documents at
Greenwich. For some remarks on the main topic of the letters
see Vol. I. page 76.]

MY DEAR AIRY,                             TRINITY Loves, Jan. 18, 1843.
                       to scramble through your Treatise on
    I 'have contrived

Tides and Waves, though in a very incomplete manner, and must

give you some account of my notions about your mode of treating

these subjects. The part about waves appears to me very admira

ble. Although the solutions include some conjectural steps, they

I Iare so plausible, and bear comparison with facts so well, thatIhold
them of great value.   shall be glad when have time to study

that part of your labours over carefully. With regard to Laplace's

I Itheory, confess that am not yet converted to a persuasion of
Iits value, though am very glad to have it made so much more

intelligible, as you have made it. It still seems to me that it gives

us no light which the equilibrium theory had not given us before;

and it is most curiously infelicitous in all its distinctive results
Iwhen compared with observations.
                                   do not include among these

the importance which is assigned to the rate of motion of the

luminaries in R.A., and to the difference of increasing and de

creasing declination, in the effect upon the tides ; for these results

are obvious according to any way of applying the equilibrium
I Itheory which have seen attempted.-
                                       had bestowed a great

deal of labour, in conjunction with Mr Bunt, on the different

I Ieffects of increasing and decreasing declinations, and thought
Ihad said something about them in some of my papers; but

I Isuppose am mistaken, and never obtained any results which

Isatisfied me. Nearly the same is the case with the rate of

motion, but gave-up battling with these inequalities at last,

seeing how much labour it would take to make the predictions

materially better than they are.

sm c. B. AIRY. 1843.                                307

I IFrom what have 'said you will see that do not agree with

I Isuch expressions as you have used about the equilibrium theory.
  will even go so far as to say that think such expressions are

unsuited to a scientific treatise. It will really make ignorant

mathematicians of the present day conceited to find a person like

you speaking of the best theory that Bernoulli, Clairaut and
Maclaurin could devise, as "miserable" and "contemptible." Nor
is this censure just any more than it is tolerant. To hold the

equilibrium theory to its merely mathematical consequences is

quite unfair, and, what is more, it is a gross misrepresentation of

the way in which it has been used. It is quite unfair; for

Laplace's theory, and your own theory of waves even, require some

general conjectural reasoning to bridge over the gap between the
mathematical hypothesis and the case of nature. The equilibrium

theory does no more. It assumes that a fluid will always tend to

the condition of equilibrium, though the circumstances of the case

prevent its ever reaching that condition; a very just and reason

I Iable assumption. And as it is in my way, will go on to say that

have already tried to teach that that, which you say is strange, is

not strange at all ; namely, that a theory which is not at all true

should be very useful. This is so far from being strange, that it is

the universal course of scientific history.

You will perhaps be amused with my defence of the character

of the equilibrium theory ; but it has long been my habitual em

Iployment to do what can to prevent people from despising what

is really valuable in the history of the past; and your fierce

disdain of this most useful step in Tidology is a matter which

I cannot pass over.
   I am not at all dissatisfied with your mode of dealing with

I Iwhat have done. You cannot think more slightly than do of
Ithe conjectures which threw out from time to time with a view

of reconciling facts and formulas. Indeed it appears to me that in
Iseveral places you attach much more importance to them than
I Ido myself.
think, however, that if were a young labourer
Iin the field, and of a character to be discouraged, might have

been discouraged from going on by your assuming the manner, not

Ionly of a teacher, but of a severe teacher. In some cases, too,

                                             20--2

308 SIR G. B. AIRY. 1843.

think your severity is misplaced ; as in '(564)`, where you say that
my determination of the relation between the diurnal tide and

the corresponding position of the moon is worth little. It is at

least worth something; for it predicts the fact in the most con
Isummate manner.
                  wish other theories did as much.
I have no objection to offer to your view of the Tides in the
IGerman Ocean; at present
                           have not time to attend to the

subject: but I.wish you had tried to draw the cotidal lines be

tween Norfolk and Holland as they result from your view.

   I have had some notion of writing either to Arago, or to the

French Admiralty, \or to our own, to request them to have tide

I Iobservations made at the Marquesas, now that the French have

established themselves there; but do not know whether can

undertake the Pacific any further. It would require a good deal

of correspondence, besides the reduction of the observations.
ITo turn to other matters.
                            had a letter from young Acland,

who has been with the Engineers on Blackdown, working with

your Zenith Sector, and is quite charmed with the working of the
instrument. He speaks with enthusiasm of one " famously long

night of it." He has been calculating and printing Tide Tables

for Budehaven.

   IAnd now good-bye, for must set to work to make my paper

of questions for the Smith's prizemen, and kind regards to Mrs

Airy.

                                              Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

   I send you an extract" from the newspapers, which seems to

excite great alarm. It has been sent to me from several quarters.

                                                                             TRIN. LODGE, Feb. 22, 1843.

   DEAR AIRY,

       I see that you stand to your guns very stoutly, as your

ancient wont was, but you have not made me think that a theory,

     1 The Astronomer Royal admits that his Article 564 was open to objection.
He meant to express his belief that "for the reasons there assigned the determina_
tion was extremely uncertain."

    2 It is not known with certainty to what this refers, but probably to an expected

high tide.

                   8130. B. AIRY. 1843.                         309

which has done so much, and been put forward by such men,

as the equilibrium theory of the tides, can properly, in a grave
scientific treatise on the same subject, be called "contemptible "

Iand "despicable." Nor have you persuaded me of any great
superiority on the part of Laplace's theory.       do not think

that it is a step in the right direction. It would be a step in

the right direction to determine the oscillations of a sea bounded

to the east and west, however arbitrary were the conditions by

which the solution was attained. But it is no step in the right

direction to suppose the earth covered with fluid, or to suppose

a complete equatoreal ocean. Vl'hatv we want is to see how

the forces affect the oscillations, without sufl'ering the protuberance

to run round and round the globe,--the fault alike of the Laplacian

and equilibrian theory,--and that this makes .Laplace's theory

inapplicable is plain, because the theory obliterates afeature of the

first order, the diurnal inequality. And when you vilify the equi

librium theory as having led to success on false principles, you

                                                 of
                                                           it,
forget one plain matter, that we have always applied all of us who

have applied  it,  in conjunction with the laws  waves, so far as we

knew those laws. And now that we know them better, thanks

to your investigations, am fully persuaded that we shall make
                   I

                             a
out a better account, and truer, by combining the equilibrium

theory with your properties of waves, than by following Laplace's.

If people are so perverse and stupid that they will attend to

nothing but algebraical formulae,    do not think  it           worth
                                I
                                  I                     is

while to abuse such men as Clairaut, D. Bernoulli and Maclaurin,

in  order to avoid misleading them. You may teach them to

despise their betters easily but am afraid your care in turning;>
them from equilibrium to motion will`do them little good; for

they will continue to be as unphilosophical in their mode of

conceiving Laplace, as in their mode of conceiving Clairaut.

    And now think have said all that want to say.               am
           it I
                   I

                                 I
                                        I
                                                      I
glad you have taken to this subject, and hope much good from

your having        on your mind. So send you some tide obser

vations of Capt. Bayfield which are curious examples of that

curious thing, the diurnal tide. Perhaps they may fall in with

your speculations. Do you not think we ought, some of us,

310 - SIR e. B. AIRY. 1843.

to put the French upon making tide observations at the

Marquesas? Such observations, continued, would tell us something

about the tides of the Pacific, the great blank of Tidology.

   I was much interested with the account of the demolition`.

I
                                                                    it,
                                                                                                           is
Sedgwick gave us a good description of                                                as you may suppose.

   wish, when you write again, you would tell me what                                                          the

rule for the quantity of powder with which Cubitt worked; for

the adjustment of the force to the work appears to have been

consummate.          s s an is

                                Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                                   Tam. LODGE, March  1843.
                                                                                                      2,
   DEAR AIRY,
                                                                                                        (I
           think can find few minutes 'this morning before                                                     if
   I
      II

           II
                                          a
 Syndicates and audits begin, to reply to some parts of your last                  aI
 letter; and will not omit to do so, for should be sorry to

V

 have you think underrate what you have done in your Treatise

on Tides.    think that you have made a most important step

in the theory by introducing friction; and that, assuming the

effect of friction to be equivalent to retroposition of the

moon's place, you have done more than any one had done to

bring about an agreement of theory and observation. But,

I  understand rightly, the other step which you mention pre

sume your Art. 552)             in a great measure included in this,
                     a
                            is
though, as you say, very striking result.

   As to the combination of the equilibrium theory with the

laws of waves, conceived                     thus, and do not think you will
             I                                                                     I
                  I

                                 it
quite repudiate it.  found from observation what you have

explained by theory, that the laws of the tides (not the magni

tudes), both as to time and height, were those of the equilibrium

       This refers to the blowing up of cliff at Dover under the direction of Mr
Cubitt, for the purpose of constructing railway. The rule was: the number of
ounces of gunpowder equalled the cube of the number of feet in the depth of the
mine normal to the cliff face.
   1
                                                                             a
                                                                                a

                    sin e. B. AIRY. 1843.        311

theory, with a retroposition of the moon. The propagation of

the tide» from place to place by free waves gave a further retro

Iposition. In every case subtracted as much of the retroposition
Ias could from my knowledge of wave laws, and supposed the

remainder to be the imperfection of the theory, as it turns out

to be.

   IIn my admiration of Laplace's theory can hardly yet go

further than to look with satisfaction upon the differential

Iequations, and hope they may come to some good, as in your
hands they have done.  cannot take his solution as expressing

the unlimited canal. A complete equatoreal canal is not an

unlimited canal; it is a reentering canal; no more unlimited,

than a circular canal on any other part of the surface of the

sphere. And if the whole surface be covered, still it is a

Ireentering canal.
        ought to have added to my former paragraphs, in order

to explain my seeming to disparage your remark about the

Imoon's velocity in right ascension (which was only seeming), that

when had arrived at the notion of the tides being regulated

RAby a moon retropositioned by an unknown and perhaps variable
quantity, it was plain that her velocity in      would enter

into the laws, and that it would make a difl'erence whether the

declination was increasing or diminishing.
IAs to the magnitude of the tide,
                                            never from the first

referred to the equilibrium theory as accounting for that,

Iexcept that supposed each cycle of elevations would have some

definite relation to the corresponding cycle of the equilibrium
theory. Even in calculating the proportion of the solar and lunar

Itides from the. phenomenon, never put forward the results as

of any weight, because they must be rendered insecure, or rather,

Ifutile, by the unknown amount of original retroposition. And

even this original retroposition gave only as a. way of express

ing laws of facts.

Since the laws of tides and height are the same as those of

the equilibrium theory, and since this is the only result of

ILaplace's theory, and is obtained by him through a combination
of insecure general reasoning with calculation,  still see no

_ 312  REV. a. .ronss. 1843.

superiority in his theory, except in his having fermed differential

equations which we cannot integrate.

And so much for Tides.

I send you a report of a Syndicate, by which you will see

Ithat we are trying to give fixity to our examination in mathe
matics. The plan is mainly mine, and» one which  have for

some time been trying to engineer.

   I shall be glad to have Capt. Bayfield's letter back again.

       Always truly yours, W. W'HEWELL.

                                                                                  T. L. Feb. 14, 1843.

    MY DEAR JONEs,

       I dare say you will get some good suggestions from

Willis if you put your case before him; but in the mean time

I will tell you what occurs to me. In every machine, or rather

 in every mechanical work, you have three things to consider--

 moving power, trains of mechanism connecting the power with
the work, work done. Willis begins his book with the example

 of a knife-grinder--moving power=muscular power of knife
grinder; mechanism = grinder's wheel; work =knife-grinding.

It is plain that, quoad knife-grinding, the power is much

increased by the mechanism, for the man would get on very ill
without it. Now your question seems to be how much the

 value of the work done exceeds the value of the moving power.

I reply, it exceeds it by the value of the mechanism, at least;

otherwise people would not acquire the mechanism. The value

of all the knife-grinding done in Britain-must exceed the mere

wages of the knife-grinders by at least the value of all the

grinders' wheels. Now this appears to me to be general--the
value of the work done must be the value of the moving
power plus the value of the machinery. In the case you mention,
a cotton mill, the value of its produce must equal the value

of the moving power (coals and engine) plus the value of the
mechanism (wheels, spindles, &c.). And the productive powers
of nations must be compared by comparing the moving forces

plus the whole quantity of working mechanism; for the latter

                REV. R. JONES. . 1843; - 313

would not exist if it did not add its own value to that of the

moving force.                                                        '

You may get some good lessons from Willis if you wish to

pursue this subject into detail. The account of the knife-grinder's

Wheel as a type of all mechanism whatever in the first

paragraphs of his book is excellent. He says truly, that there

is always a train of mechanism between the moving force and

the work done; and his book is the analysis and classification of

such trains. In 'one of my last books--The Mechanics of
Engineering-- is a good chapter on the Measure of Moving

IPower, borrowed from the French Engineers and improved.
Willis and     agreed to call the Measure of Moving Power

"Labouring Force "---an expression which has considerable ad

vantages. The French term is "Travail."

     You will see that we have petitioned for your ~Welsh
Bishopricks. Will Peel yield? or will he defy Celtic wrath ?

Our regards to Mrs Jones.

                           Ever yours, W. W.

                                         T. L., Ap. 7, 1843.

MY DEAR JONES,
I Isuppose you got the letter
                               wrote yesterday, which
Icontained an answer to one part of yours; but may as well say

over again that we shall be most glad to see you and Rutherford.

IWe shall be at Audley End from Monday to Wednesday in
Easter week, but at home the rest of the time.  shall be glad

to hear what you say of John Mill's book when you have read

Iit.* believe the part you mention is the best, for it is that

which has long employed his thoughts; when he comes to

Induction, he appears to me to write like a man whose knowledge

is new (indeed he confesses that he had much of it from Herschel
and me),---and not very well appropriated. For instance, a great

number of his examples of scientific investigation are taken from

Liebig's researches on physiological chemistry--just published.

The most profound and sagacious physiologists and chemists can

not yet tell which of these will stand as real discoveries; still

314 REV. R. JONES. 1843.

less can they put these new views into the true relation to the
old without long thought and study. How then should Mill do

                                     new? And then he takes the
it,to whom the whole subject
                   is

                                        is
                                                         a
                                                      is

                                                              is

                                       it I

                                                                            is
instance, which Herschel has made people wild about, of Wells's

book on Dew. Tell Herschel he has something to answer for,

in persuading people that they could so completely understand
the process of discovery from single example. Wells's place in

the history of science  misunderstood, and the amount of his

discoveries miscalculated, when he       detached from the general

train of researches on heat and moisture. But, to speak of the

part of, Mill's book of which you speak, agree with you that

the Logic fairly logical; also, that                                            deadly dull. The

Whateleian logicians are to me far more oppressive than the

Aristotelians; far more immersed in verbal trifling and useless

subtilty. When Mill comes to the question of the ground of

mathematical demonstration, he certainly makes a stout fight;

and his arguments are valuable as serving to shew how the true

doctrine  may   best be put so as    to  be understood and                      accepted.
***                quite subjugated  by  one whom think                         very bad
           He
I                                        I
              is                                Ia

                                                     I
philosopher, Comte, of whom he constantly talks with a veneration

which could easily shew you a most gross idolatry.                              had
                                 a isI
written an article for my philosophy about Comte, but suppressed it,

wishing to avoid unnecessary controversy. Of course, shall not
notice Mill's book till come to new edition, and probably then
                  I

no otherwise than by altering, as have said, the mode of present

ing my doctrines. By the way, new editions of my History and

Philosophy are marching upon me quite as fast as wish. The
                                         Ia
                                                    I
History very nearly sold off (1500), but the publisher recom
I

  I
         I is

                           a it

                        I
mends me to let stay out of print year or two, which suits

well with my other plans. As soon as am discharged of the

V.C.ship feel great desire to rush upon Morals again.

think that next year can both give a course of lectures and

publish a system. At present nothing but business can go on.

hope your Kentish move will be of use to Mrs Jones. Let

me know when you come here.

                                         Always yours, W. W.

         SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1843.                         315

                                           _     TB. Lopes, Ap. 8, 1843.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

I send along with this a letter for Jones, who writes me

word he is going to be your guest. Pray send it to him in
ILondon, if his visit to you fails.
                                                 suppose you have by this

time lost sight of your comet. Do you get any new notions out
of this fellow ? Is he self-luminous, or only a very difl'use planet?

We did not see him well here ; and, for my part, not at all.
    Jones will tell you of a new book by young Mill about the

philosophy of science, suggested in a great degree by your book

on the same subject and by mine. There is in new books of
Ithis kind a satisfaction in which both you and may have a
Ishare.
         mean that notions and expressions, which were new and

strange when we began to write, are now familiarly referred to as

part of the uncontested truth of the matter. Mill agrees with

you more than with me in the parts where we differ, but he does

not appear to me an ally to set much store by; for, though acute

and able, he is ignorant of science and still entangled in the

Iprejudices of a bad school.                  I

am grieved_to hear from Jones that your household have

been molested by colds. We hear such complaints on all sides

of us, but we ourselves have escaped pretty well. The worst

Icomplaint have is the Vice-chancellorship, and that is not a

very bad disease, except for the old reason why Love is so--

" Love is like a dizziness
  That won't let a poor man go about his business "

I----at least not about any other business ; so am longing for the

end of that may once more philosophize and moralize. Pray
do not let Lady Herschel and the girls and boys forget me; and
is it,

     I
my wife equally unwilling to be forgotten by you.

                                              Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

316'     PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1843.

MY DEAR FORBES,                       Tam. Lonos, June 6, 1843.

      I Was glad to see your handwriting again; for, though the

Vice-chancellor's office added to all other employments has made

Ime very slack in writing to my friends, it has by no means taken
away my desire of hearing from them.         was glad, too, to have

.the news you give me about the form in which the results of
II your travels are to appear.
Iof being successful.           think you have a good prospect

                        mean, so far as the form may affect your

success. Most readers like personal narrative, even when the

narrator has little to tell, which is not your case, including in the

events of your travels the steps by which you were led to your
Iviews.
         do not quite know how far it enters into your plan
Ito tell this; though saw a few sheets in Heath's hands, as he

I Iprobably told you.                            '

      believe must agree with you that Hopkins's experiments

do not prove much more than what was asserted before--that ice
in contact with a conductive body is capable of yielding to

iminute moving forces. But though this 'always seemed to me
Ivery evident, it had,
                        think, been denied by some of your

fighting glaciators ; and the proof by experiments is a satisfaction

always, and usually a means of obtaining measures and constants.

I am so much a lover of experiments, though on such subjects
Iexperiments on a small scale may be very fallacious, that have

Several times thought of the possibility of illustrating, at least,

Iyour views by experiment; mean that which appears to me

a very curious and striking principle--that a semi-fluid mass,

Icreeping down an anfractuous valley, will have its fissures, the
state of its surface, and, as   presume, the surfaces of equal

pressure, in given positions with regard to the sides of the valley,

while the particles advance. From your saying of your having

Iproduced your. structural shells in viscid plaster, think it not
Iunlikely that you have done what have spoken of, and a great

deal more; but if you could exhibit the fact in a model of an

Alpine valley, it would be very persuasive.  as
                            sso

                        Most truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1843.      317

                                                TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, Sept. 17, 1843.

   MY DEAR QUE'rsLEr,

       IThis note will, hope, he delivered to you by my brother
Iin-law, Arthur Marshall. know that you will be glad to increase

the number of our common friends, and you will besides be
interested in the object of his visit, since it tends to make our

Itwo countries more useful to each other in the way of manufac

tures. do not doubt that you and Madame Quetelet will have the
pleasure of seeing something of your friend Prince Albert during
the visit which he is now making to your city. Pray give my

Ikind regards to her, and tell her that wish her that and much

other gratification, and believe me always,

     ' Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

TRINITY LODGE, Sept. 30, 1843.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

       II- shall write you only a short epistle, for have great
Idoubts whether have any chance of meeting you at Geneva,
Iwhich is the only probable address of yours that can hear of.

I want you to consider whether you cannot take Cambridge in

your way northwards, and let Mrs Whewell and me have the

pleasure of becoming acquainted with Mrs Forbes, and shew her

Cambridge, which your wife ought to see. We shall be here, and
I Iable to receive you at any time, so far as at present know.
                                                                am

reading your book, and am quite charmed with the life and move--

ment which it possesses, as well as by the manner in which your

Inarrative is all made to converge to your theory. Still have one

Ior two puzzles which, have no doubt, a little talk with you would

help me out of.
     You will find us at last clear of workmen, and shall be able to

pass from your bedroom to breakfast without traversing a moraine
or having canvas flap over your head. YOu will excuse my being

brief, if the communication is not reduced to zero by not reaching

you and so being no communication at all--and believe me

Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

318 REV. R. JONES. 1843.

                          T. L., 0a. 6, 1843.

MY DEAR JONES,

I am grieved to hear that you are so worried and so out of
order; and that we are not to see you and Mrs Jones. If you can
Irun over here for two or three days at any time, pray do.
                                                               hope
Iit will do you good, and it certainly will be good for me. have

been working steadily on with the historical part of my Morality,

Iand have, think, finished the requisite reading. It has led me to
Igo over Hallam's books much more carefully than had done, and

I am glad to find that they have risen much in my estimation on

Icloser inspection; for like the man. They are, especially the

English Constitution, a series of condensed, able, lawyer-like, or

rather judge-like, discussions of all the principal constitutional

questions which our history ofl'ers. He is an old Whig, and at

times rather a stern one; but then he is an old whig, not a new

IWhig; and see scarcely any points on which we, the constitutional

conservatives, are called upon to differ with him. What a differ

ence between his judicial gravity and fairness, and the clever

sophistical advocacy of Macaulay! But then again what an ad

vantage Macaulay has in his bright transparent style over Hallam's

I Iill-wrought parenthetical sentences often amounting to riddles!
   do not know how far may be able to systematize the principles

that enter into such discussions, but that is my next task; and, at

Iany rate, taking the matter in this order I`shall not fall into vague
generalities or unforeseen dangerous conclusions.  appear to
Imyself to be following exactly the course did in the philosophy

of the sciences; taking first historically what has been done and

said on each subject, and then extracting out of that the philoso

phy which was in the minds of those who contributed anything to

Iwhat was done.                                             _

shall be very glad to see your new edition of Rent, and am

happy to hear that you have reached that stage of your progress.

I Isend you an examination paper, in which have inserted, as in
Iexamining for Fellowships usually do, a question on the subject.
IThis time got two or three answers from men who appeared to

            ARCHDEACON HARE. 1843.                            319

Ihave read your book.                             1

                       look forwards with great satisfaction to

the appearance of your other baby. When shall we hear its first

squall ?       asss

   I agree with you that the love of natural scenery lasts undi
Iminished better than most other pleasures; but am not yet
Iweary of poetry, only rather fastidious, and that suppose is what
Iyou are.
           have, however, of late found a new way of enjoying

poetry by reading it to my wife every evening, which at any rate

prevents its putting me to sleep. Kind regards to Mrs Jones.

                         Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                     Tum. LODGE, Nov. 23, 1843.

MY DEAR HARE,

          I apply to you to know if you can give me any account of
Iyour neighbour Bunsen.
                         wrote to him above a week ago asking

him and Madame Bunsen to come here any time from the 2nd to
Ithe 11th.
            thought he might like to fulfil his long talkt of
Idesign of seeing Cambridge in term time.
                                           have got no answer,
Iand want to arrange my engagements, so shall be obliged to you

if you can tell me where another letter will find him.

   I Ihave been reading Sterling's Strafford, as suppose you

have. There is a great deal of force and skill, and considerable

Idramatic power--I mean power of making living persons. What
   most miss in it is an English tone. The philosophy, religion,

and polity, are not at all those of the time; nor those of English

statesmen and lawyers at any time. He has omitted, too, many

of the most animated turns in Strafford's accusation and trial.

Perhaps this was done to avoid servilely copying history; but

Shakespeare would have been content to be servile.

The Worsleys are coming to dine with us alone to-day.
I wish you could come and make a fifth in these parties. When
Iever you can come, you will be most welcome.
                                                    do not know

that we go away at all this winter.

                       Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                   Y

320 DEAN'PEAcooK. 1844.1

     You were quite right in supposing that it was the structure,
not the style, of your sermon, which reminded me of Schleier

macher.

                                                                              Thm. LODGE, Dec. 6, 1843.

   MY DEAR HARE,

      I do not know whether you will think me too persevering,
I I,but really am desirous of discovering why cannot get an an
I Iswer from Bunsen. After received your last, wrote to him
Iagain (directing Carlton Terrace) repeating my invitation, and

begging for a reply: but as yet have received not a word from

Ihim. As may at some future time wish to. write to him again,
Iand to obtain an answer, should be glad if you could put me in

a probable way of doing what appears to be so difficult.

   I have been looking at some of the accounts of Strafl'ord and

his trial, and am rather scandalized at the violent injustice which
Sterling has done him. The broad and offensive pantheism, which
he puts in his mouth in the concluding speech, is utterly at vari
ance with history and character; and so, according to all that

I have read, is his connection with Lady Carlisle; indeed the dis

crepance between these inventions and Strafford's farewell letters
to his son and his wife appears to me to be shocking.

                               *ss*

                                        Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                            Truurrx Lonon, Feb. 22nd, 1844.

MY DEAR DEAN, [Dr Peacock]
I am sorry that we should not agree about the desirableness
Iof inviting the British Association here next year.
                                                      retain the
Iopinion which expressed at Manchester, that it is not desirable

that the Association should go on repeating its sittings in its
Iformer haunts.
                 think such a course would make it an intoler

able burthen to the places included in the cycle, and to those
of their inhabitants who took a share in its proceedings. And in
this way it would lose its most valuable oflice, which is to stir

                    DEAN PEACOOK. 1844.                  321

up the scientific zeal of the places which it visits. It would do
immense good to such places as Durham (a University Town like

ourselves), Leeds, Hull, Lincoln, Norwich, Portsmouth, Exeter,
IfGloucester, Shrewsbury; but none to us.
                                           it cannot find new

places to go to, a large share of its usefulness is at an end. As

Ifor the main object of raising funds, do not think it reasonable

that the University should be asked to lend itself to such a

purpose. These are my objections as a friend of the Association,

and they imply what my objections are upon the part of the
IUniversity.
              think it would be an intolerable burthen, not only

in a pecuniary view, but in its interference with the time, quiet,

and comfort of the members of the University. Many persons

must take part in it who exceedingly dislike such tasks, or else it

must be an entire failure. It must at any rate be a failure, com--

pared with the last Cambridge meeting; for the novelty and

Ienthusiasm are gone, and the burthen would be calmly calculated.
   do not think that the University, or at least the Colleges, could

be or would be protected against the burthensomeness of the
Ioccasion even in money concerns:
                                   do not see how thevisit to

Cambridge can make so much difference in the probable existence
Ifof the Association.
                        it can find a place of meeting for 1846,

why not for 1845 t

   IIn speaking of the burthensomeness of such an occurrence to

the University and the Colleges, have reason to believe that
I express the feeling of members, both of our own and other
IColleges, whose opinions would carry great weight.
                                                     have not         _

Obtained them in such a way as to implicate the Association in
Ithe mortification of a rejected application which, think, ought to
Ibe avoided.
              shall be glad if you will, so far as you can con

veniently, and so far as the discussion in the Council makes it

pertinent, let my views be known to the Members the Council.

Believe me, dear Dean,

                        Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

     [The British Association met at Cambridge in 1845 under the
presidency of Sir John Herschel: see Vol. I. p. 154.]

w. II.                                               21

'           ARCHDEACON HARE. 1844.,
    32,2,v

                                                 T. L. Feb. 22,1844.

MY DEAR HARE,                         i    *      i

                                  `-     though  you would approve,

            I think you would laugh,                                           if

you were here to witness what we are going to set about to

morrow--a set of singing lessons under the direction of Mr Hullah

--'we being about forty Masters of Arts, who meet at my Lodge.

Many of them want to learn, that they may be able to direct the

teaching of singing in their parishes, which they have, or hope

to have.

   I find that Taylor's Synonyms is going to be reprinted.

* * * He did something for the knowledge of German, in

England, and might have done something for literature, if he had

not been all expended on periodical review writing.

            Have you copies of the translations of G'othe's Hexameter

Epistles which you inserted in the Athenwum many years ago?
I Ishould like much to see them again.
                                                 ought to have them,
Ibut have often sought them in vain. Adieu.

                                      Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                          THIN. LODGE, March 7, 1844.

   MY DEAR HARE,

      I Ireturn you your hexameters and pentameters which am

glad to have seen again. It appears to me that all we, who are

set upon writing hexameters by the Germans, make the same
mistake, of constructing lines with such endings as this of

yours,

            Turn impatiently over the leaves and then scratching his own pen.

You may say that own pen is a very good spondee. True: too

good a spondee for English verse. The English verse will run
Ivery well with dactyls and trochees, but abhors spondees.
                                                                               am

sure that, if we hexametrists had avoided these dimonosyllabic

endings, we should have been considered as English versifiers, like

our neighbours, and should not have been hooted at as perverse

                 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1844.                                    323

Iand irrational innovators. Still believe the chance of making

hexameters in England liked by the general body of readers, to

the same extent as they are in Germany, depends very much

upon a poem of considerable bulk, attractive in its subject and
treatment, being written in them. As Southey says, if you could

march a body of 10000 or 20000 hexameters into the country, you

might succeed, but your detachments of a few at a time are cut

011' as fast as they appear. His "Vision" was, however, a most

unhappy attempt to verify his project: besides which, he allows

himself professedly licenses, which entirely destroy the character

of the verse; as a short syllable at the beginning of a line.

Herschel has written (and printed for his friends) a very excel

lent translation (with one or two mistakes, according to me) of
Schiller's "Walk." Hawtrey has also translated some of Gothe's

Hexameters and Pentameters. Yours are almost free from the

Iharshness which have noticed in the Hexameter Epistles.

Will you tell me, when you have time, what form the memorial

Iof Dr Arnold has taken? Is it an Historical Scholarship at
Oxford?  seem to recollect to have heard that it was so. Some

friends of mine wish to know.
I wonder that the Etymological Society have not yet included
IBunsen among their numbers.
Ioriginal members.             thought he had been one of the

                    have never taken any part in their pro
Iceedings since the day we were there together.
                                                                    But    have

no doubt they would jump at the notion of having Bunsen one

of them. They do not appear to me as yet--judging from their

Proceedings, which they print and send me--to have made any
great way in the philosophy of languages, or in the knowledge

of what has been done.

                 asss

                 '

                                                               it,
We Hullahize, as you euphoniously term                              very prosper

ously: 40 Masters of Arts, 40 Undergraduates, 20 University

ladies, 200 Town gentlemen and ladies, 200 of the people, five

strong classes.

                        Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                    21--2

324 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1844.

                                                      Tam. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Ap. 15, 1844.

MY DEAR FORBES,

    I Iintended to have written to you before received your

IRoman letter, but did not meet with any of your friends who

could tell me exactly where you were. And, though have no

doubt that you are too systematic a traveller to leave your

track unknown to the post office, you know perhaps how much
it dulls the pleasure of writing to have your correspondent pre-- '

Isented to your imagination as vaguely diffused over all Italy.
   rejoice very much to hear that your Italian sojourn has been

Iof so much service to your health. And may say the same
Iof Mrs Forbes, though grieve to hear she had so much occa
Ision for restorative influences. As you will suppose, am too

old a traveller to be surprised at any modifications your Italian

enthusiasm may have undergone since your earlier visit. The

absence of surprise and novelty necessarily do much to make

late impressions of objects duller than the first --- the proofs

before the letters. But besides this, there
a                                            think, another

     II
                    I

                              I is,I
thing which very much diminishes the interest of sights in after

life--at least for active people. They become so much occupied

with the interest of actions, external or mental, that they care

comparatively little for spectacles which they cannot work into

their plans and speculations.  have not yet seen your last

letter on glaciers, but am amused with your finding that a stream

of lava and of ice are very like each other. still look forwards

to having discussion with you about your ribboned structure

theory. Perhaps may put my difiiculty briefly thus. The

minute fissures in the ice stream must be the solutions of con

tinuity necessitated by the different velocity of the different

parts. But these must be in the general direction of cylin

droidal surfaces having the axis of the stream for their axis,

because the central and upper parts move quickest. Therefore

the ribboned structure ought   have this form, and not
              I
                                                    to
                                                                                                           a
frontal dip.  think your answer to this Objection will probably

bring us to a better understanding on the subject. There can

be no doubt that you_will have all our geologists on your side

                  sm J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1845.                        325

as soon as they have time to get over their preconceptions.

Sedgwick has been reading you lately with great admiration.

We have at present a struggle going on here whether the
IBritish Association shall come here in 1845.
                                                          am against it.

ITo have that hubbub returning upon us in a cycle every few
years would be intolerable.     do not know how your Edinburgh

Ipeople would like it. Oxford has refused to have any more to
do with the Association. Indeed      have no doubt that the

majority of the Senate here are against the plan. But Sedgwick

and Peacock    and a few young men are foris I       and  perhaps  those
who oppose                          is I        them.
               imay not like to vote againstI it,o
                           au

                      i Always truly yours, W.IWHEWELL.
                                        a? is "I

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,                    Tum. LODGE, Mar. 12, 1845.

                                                '

         think must make an effort to rescue my little book1
is I             I

from your contempt.   see that you look upon as a kind of
                      I                           it
Elegant Extracts of my Philosophy, published in compliance
                             a                        if
with the prevalent love of little books that pretend to contain
                                                                a
the essence of large ones, and daintily dressed for dainty people.

This not exactly the meaning of it.  do not know you have

seen or heard (from your letter should think not) of book
                      Creation. It anonymous, has been circulated
called VestigesI

with great zeal and mystery, andof   much read and talked of.

It considered to have materialist tendency, and so, to be
is is
mischievous.        have been much urged to answer it, which have
                                                                  I

refused to do, except by extracting passages from my previous

books; and indeed, in the passages which have. extracted, all

the arguments of the Vestiges are discussed and answered. So

you see  itI is  not a wanton selection of elegant extracts, but a

compulsory selection of theological extracts, and by no means
shows what like best, or think most essential, in the other books,

or likely to be so taken by those who read it. As for the

               1  Indications the Creator: see Vol. I. page 155.
                      of

326 REV. R. JONES. 1845.

Ibinding, you are not to suppose that treat all the world to

such elegancies. They are only for people like Lady Herschel,

I Ifor whom nothing is too good. You will soon have evidence,
quite enough  am afraid, that am not dwindled down to a
Iwriter of little books.
                            shall hope to publish, in two or three
Imonths, a book as big as any have yet published. It is a system

of morals.                  I do not quite assent to your c'msh

    A word about glaciers.

room theory. The fragments are not permanent ones in the

glaciers. Old cracks are soldered; new ones made; this per

petually and throughout. To make your crush room resemble
this, you must suppose that gentlemen are constantly splitting

Iin two, one half sticking to one lady, and the other to another,

and so on. Now should call this a plastic mass, and so would

you, if the gentlemen were tiny elves. Add to this the center

stream of these elves flowing out into the Haymarket faster

than the sides, and let them bear traces (in their breasts of
course) of the various rendings they have suffered, and you have
a Forbesian glacier with its structural hands.

                a s s is

                            Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

JMY DEAR ours,              TBIN. Lonon, July 18, 1845.

I am glad to hear news of your book and its progress

towards a printed existence. We intend to leave this place on

Monday, and shall be at 41, Upper Grosvenor Street for a week or
Ia fortnight, so you must send me your sheets there.
                                                             shall

look at them with great interest, and will tell you any thoughts

which occur to me about your way of meeting your subject:

but my interest in your sheets does not depend so much upon
Iany hope have of detecting any errors for you, as from my
Idesire to see your views in their systematic shape.
                                                      have no

doubt of their making their way to general acceptance; if not
Iin this generation, at least in the next.
                                            believe that the pro

mulgators of long pondered truths ought to be prepared to wait

                   REV. R. JONES. 1845.                     327

a while for the gratitude of the world, for they cannot mix
themselves with popular and periodical literature, or with London

coteries, in such a way as to find a set of ready made admirers

when they publish. But this is not to be regretted, for truths of any

broad philosophical kind do not admit of transmission through

Iadmirers so made. have been much amused, in this point of view,

with the success of the Vestiges of Creation. N0 really philosophical

book could have had such success: and the very unphilosophical

character of the thing made it excessively hard for a philoso

I

             if
                  it

                              it,

                                I
                                                                                  a
                                                                      1 if
phical man to answer  and still more to get hearing                                  he
                                                                                     To
did. How do you like Sedgwick's Article in the Edinburgh

me the material appears excellent, but the workmanship bad,

and doubt          will do its work. We hardly know where we

shall be for the next two months.           am bent upon seeing

some of the Cathedrals, Canterbury first, and Winchester last

in the beginning of September, when the Antiquarians meet

there. Adieu.

                               Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                   marines, Aug. 19, 1845.

MY DEAR JONES,

             wish had told you to write to me, for I'want much
to know how you are, as well as what you think of my notes
I
       I              intended to say so, and to tell you that
            I
on your Lectures.

letters addressed to Trinity Lodge will always be forwarded to

me. We are got so far in your Sussex, having spent ten days

at VValmer, where the Worsleys are. This place  is,to-day,
                                                        is
almost too marine, for the sea            quite noisy close to our
                               I is
windows, and the crowds of people hurrying past between us andI is
the shore are as unquiet and as noisy as the sea. But this on

account of some regatta, and   not, suppose, the usual habit

of the place.
     Both the Athenceum and the Spectator have taken up my

[Morality somewhat hostilely.  suppose this was to be expected;

for they are both of them strong movement journals, and my
speculations are, upon the whole, conservative. But was not
                                                I

328 I         SIR J. F. w. HERSOHEL. 1845.

quite prepared for the amount of unfairness, and the evidence

that neither critic had read the book so as to judge of it in any
Iconnected manner.
                       do not see that they have noticed anything
Iwhich could have put in any better form: and there are one
Ior two blots in the book which they have not hit.
Ia reasonable estimate of it as a system; but              want to see

                                                           suppose this is

too much to expect from the present practice of our criticism.
                               sas as is

                       Always truly yours, W. \VHEWELL.

                                   HAsrmes, Aug. 20, 1845.

MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

           We are glad to find by Lady Herschel's letter received to

Iday, that your boy is going on well. hope you will soon be freed

from your anxiety about the rest. We got here on Monday, and

were glad we had done so when yesterday's storm beat against

our windows. Through the whole tempest we had three cutters

sailing a race in the sea before us; but one of them was twice

baffled before she could round the flag ship.
I Idid not send you the reprints of my letters on glaciers:
I Isuppose Forbes did.
                       think you and are coming near each
Iother, except that should call substances viscous when they are

in the condition you describe; the parts being constantly detached

and forming new attachments of equal value. That they do this

by starts, as in snow  (if    be so), makes no difference in the
                          it

mechanical results of the case.

        should like much to have your opinion on a matter con
I

         is,
nected with the cultivation of mathematics in England. Cam

bridge        and hope will continue, the principal school of English
              II
mathematics; but the course of things there not what one could
                                                       is

wish to be.       think this arises from our most active students
it

being encouraged to study rather the last supposed improvements,

contained in memoirs, journals, and pamphlets, than the standard

works of mathematical literature.  am disposed to recommend,
                                   I

                                                    a
as the standard of our highest mathematics, list of classical works,

to be announced by authority from time to time; say at present,

sm J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 1845.                                                       329

Newton's Principia, Euler's Mechanica, and Calculus Integralis,

Lagrange's The'orie des Fonctions and Jlfe'canique Analytique,
Laplace's Mécanique Ce'leste, Monge's Application de l'Alyébre a la
IGeome'trie, Airy's Tracts.
                             exclude in this list works of great

historical value, as those of the Bernoullis and Maclaurin, and on

Ithe other hand exclude the most recent memoirs and the like,

not admitting them into our scheme till some time has elapsed,

and the mathematical world has given them its sanction. Such

Iexclusions are, think, necessary, in order that our best mathe--

matical men may really know the great works of the science

rather than employ their time and activity in hunting out the

Ilast novelty. (Of course include in the examinations problems

requiring original investigations.)  The obvious objection to such
Ia list as have proposed             narrows and fetters the exami
                          that
                          is,

                                  it

                                       I
nation, and that our best mathematicians ought to be acquainted

with the whole of mathematics. To this should reply, that men

at the time of taking their degree have not in general had time to

acquaint themselves with the whole of mathematics, and will be

better taught they have limited task, provided
enough, as think the above list is. The real question
I                            a                                          be large
       it I                                                             whether
                                                                  is, it
               if
we shall take our selection from the general judgment of the

mathematical world, or from certain conventions and ephemeral

works of our own. This would be my answer, but should like to
                                             I

know how would strike you, and whether you incline in favour

of an unlimited scheme for our highest men.

have no direct purpose of obtaining the authority of the

University for any scheme which may propose, but the evils of
                                     I
                                          I

                                                                               a
our present condition are much complained of; and scheme

which had good reason in its favour would have a fair chance of

producing its effect when published.  am going to publish a

book about University matters, and this among the rest.

    We stay here till Friday, when we go to Hare's at Hurstmon

ceux. Our kindest regards to Lady Herschel. God bless you.

                                     Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

     We have been to St Leonard's, and we have seen the smaller
bodies of your system, who look very nice and globular.

330 ARCHDEACON HARE. 1845.

                Turn. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 3, 1845.

MY DEAR HARE,

It was kind of you to waft to me--not an "evil dream"

like that which Zeus sent to the ships of the Greeks--but a very

pleasant dream of our living near you, and bringing the Worsleys

with us--so may it be at some time or other! and if not for years,

Iat least for months. But think this good fortune cannot be

brought to us by our taking Hurstmonceux Place, which, with its

rather large and naked rooms, chills even my wife's zeal for

furnishing, and does not correspond to my ideal villa, which is a

Iplace where may think, and write, and dose away a few summer
Imonths almost in solitude. But still am glad and pleased at

Iyour combining my hopes with your neighbourhood. Perhaps

shall next summer ramble in some other part of England in the

Ilike manner: but shall not find any place which has the charm

Iof your "good dream."                              have already
     Among my small projects is still one of which

I Ispoken to you. It is to get a fair hearing for English Hexame
ters. Will you help me? will tell you how.     should like to
Ipublish (without printed names
                                 think) hexameter poems by
several persons respected by the world--your translations of

Go'the--Herschel's translation of Schiller's Spaz'iergang (a bean
Itiful performance)--my own Herman and Dorothea.
                                                            have
Ione or two other Hexametrists in my thoughts, but will not
Ispeak of them till know what you think. The measure is as

suitable for our language as for the German, and would be a,

gain to our versification. You shall have no trouble except that

of sending me your Gothe's Epistles.  How      say you  to  this
                                            I

scheme ?        Ibeen reading with great delight Bunsen's Church
                   hope it is to be translated. The appearance of
   I have just

of the Future.

such a work at present would, in my opinion, be a. great blessing

to us Englishmen. It is very true that it would be hard to trans

late; but so is all philosophical German, for obvious reasons.

Pray help to persuade Bunsen to give us an English edition of the

                PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1845.          331

work. As a speculator about such matters, which indeed we all

Iare, am quite charmed to have such views put in circulation.

                                at s s s

                                                   Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                        TRIN. LODGE, Dec. 27, 1845.

MY DEAR FORBES,

         I have been longer than usual in answering your last

letter; but here come Christmas and New Year's day,,bringing,

among other blessings, reasons for ending-such intervals of silence,

with good wishes for a continuance of blessings. There are few
Ipersons whom
                include in such wishes more constantly than
I Ido yourself, and now of course include in them Mrs Forbes.

Your last letter brought me the intelligence that she had pre
Isented you with a second daughter.
                                        hope both she and the

baby are quite prosperous.
I have been reading the article in the Quarterly on the Cosmos
I(which is certainly the right English spelling).
                                                   am much

pleased with it. It appears to me to contain a very good abstract
Iof some of the most striking parts of the book, and, what value

much more, judgments pronounced on several of the controverted

Ipoints, which suggest themselves, in a truly judicial spirit. can
Inot say the book disappointed me, but do not very highly

admire it. Its value is great as a large and lively summary of

many branches of science according to recent views, but it

pretends to be something more--one does not precisely see            a is,
what; and it is the more difficult to discover what its aim

because    does not occupy the mind in any way except as
          it
                      think you have formed nearly the same
           I
collection of facts.  I

                                    is
judgment.       am much obliged to you for mentioning my book

in the review. The fact                 Humboldt has mentioned my book

in note, but in such a way as to shew, think, that he had
a                                       I

not read  it,   even he had opened it. He joins me with Ampere,

            if

and with a certain American Professor Park, who has written a

Pantology, blaming us,  iIf             understand him, for too learned

332 PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1845.v

Iclassifications of Sciences; but do not well make out his drift

in this part.

I IBy the way, my books, the History and the Philosophy, are
' quite out of print, and am going to reprint them.          shall of

course correct errors, and make additions where any thing be
Ilonging to any of my Epochs has been done.
                                             have not yet
Iquite determined in what way shall introduce these corrections
Iand additions; but shall be very glad of any suggestions from

you as to defects which you have observed in the .book. Some
Iof your remarks
                  recollect, for instance, the imperfect justice

done to Playfair's illustrations, and shall profit by them.

Faraday has on hand something very great, in his eyes sur

I Ipassing the connection between electricity and polarization, which
  think you refer to in your expressions about him. But be-\

lieve he does not wish his hopes to be talked of till his result

comes out. According to what he wrote to me lately, this is not

I Ilikely to be long.
     My book which
                  sent you circulates rapidly, and, suppose,

will produce some effect here, but that must be slowly. However,

 we have already in progress measures in some degree founded

'upon it. In another term perhaps they may reach the form of a

Igrace.
         am glad to see in the Quarterly Review an article tending

to bring the episcopal churches of England and Scotland into
Icloser union. Do you know whose writing it is?
                                                             am afraid

Bishop Terrot must have been much disturbed by'the contro--

versy to which it refers.
I have not yet congratulated you upon the happy termination
Iof the business of your pension.
                                   am very glad your merits

have been recognized in that public manner; glad for the credit

of the ministry and the country, as well as on your own account.

                           sa
                  -X-
                                                             an

                                                          I
     With Mrs Whewell's kind regards and good wishes,            am,
my dear Forbes,

                           Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                srR J. r. w. HERSCHEL. 1846.                                                                           333

                                   Tum. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 23, 1846.

MY DEAR FORBES,

The author of the Article which you inquire about is
IPeacock; so you see your judgment of my style was right.
                                                                                                                       sup

pose you have been discussing the Cavendish and Watt question,

and of course have seen Harcourt's decisive article in the Philo
Isophical Magazine.
                                wish it were in some channel of more

general diffusion, for the correction will reach few of those whom
Ithe misrepresentation has reached.
                                         do not know what con
Inection between Cavendishes and Harcourts there can be.
                                                                                                                       be

lieve the Peerage shews none.         ,
I agree with you about our Examinations.  I have been com

plaining in council, as well as in print, of the neglect of Newton.

We have some measures on the anvil which are intended to

remedy this, among other evils; but we get on slowly with such
work.

     Pray what do you Scotch Episcopalians say of a Trinity College,

I Iwhich is establishing, think, near Perth 2 was applied to once

or twice about and a little while ago the Bishop of Edinburgh
I
           a

            it it,
wrote about person to place at the head of it. If                                                                      a good
                                          a

                                                   it

                                                          is
design, hope will prosper but your bishops little perplex us
                                :

with their very high church notions.

suppose you have the same marvellously vernal weather that
I

                  it

                            is
we have here. Our rose trees are in leaf, and appear to have no

suspicion that                  only February: but am much afraid that
                                      I

March will come upon them like a harsh schoolmaster who finds

the boys`out of school before their lessons are ready.
     Our kind regards to Mrs Forbes, and believe me, dear Forbes,

                                Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                   Trim. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, .412. 1846.
I

               a

             I

                                    if

                              I
                                                                                                                   4,
MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

have project, in which you will give me your counted

nance (which will cost you no trouble), am persuaded we shall

benefit the world.              have always been of opinion that English

334 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1846.

Ihexameters have not yet had justice done them.             want to print
Ia collection which may win them some favour; and want to

insert in it your Walk, which appears to me superior in several

Iof its parts to any example we have, and throughout excellent.
   shall reprint my Herman and Dorothea: Hare will give me

some translations of Glithe's Epistles made long ago: perhaps

Hawtrey of Eton, who is an accomplished hexametrist, will also
Ilet me print some of his performances.
                                         have not yet asked
Ihim: but, if you will join me, shall hope to carry all before me.
I do not contemplate printing the names, though of course the

veil of anonymy will be a very loose one. And if you have any

other hexameters and will let me have them, it will be better
Istill.
         see by indications in several quarters that there is a.
Ihexameter spirit alive ; and do not see why we should not be as

prosperous hexametrists as the Germans.                     ~

I hope you are in better health and comfort than you were
Iwhen saw you. When are your southern stars to dawn on our

eyes? Have you seen or repeated Faraday's experiments; and

can you get any theoretical hold of them ? We are still, it seems

to me, thrown again and again on the same difficulty--the nature
I Iof the crystalline structure Of bodies.
                                         wish could imagine to

Imyself a quartz crystal.
         hope Lady Herschel, and all the rising generation, are well

Iand happy. My kindest remembrances, in which my wife joins.
  hope Lady H. will give her approval to my hexameter scheme.

                 Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                 Tam. LonoE, CAMBRIDGE, May 5, 1846.

MY DEAR FORBES,

It would have been very pleasant to have had your

imagination realized, and to have fallen in with you in our

mountain region during this summery May; but that is not to
be at present. We had intended to be, at this time, on the

coast of Suffolk, in a certain cottage-mansion`, nestled in a wooded

hollow Of the earth-cliff close to the sea; for such a house we

         1 Clifi Cottage, Lowestoft: see Vol. 1. page 154.

PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1846.                                335

have taken, and hope to visit often by the help of the railroad.

But Mrs Whewell has had an attack of serious illness, which has
Iprevented this; and though she is now, am thankful to say,
Irecovering, this scheme is for the present at an end.
                                                         cannot      I

of my own knowledge help you much in your glacier researches

in the lake districts. James Marshall went in pursuit of that game,
I Ithink, in company with Buckland (and, doubt, Sedgwick),
Iand believe that he saw the traces very distinctly.
                                                         believe

your host, Captain Wauchope, has often been on the hills with'

James Marshall; and, therefore, he can perhaps tell you the
Ilocalities where the sight is to be seen.
                                            recollect only

one place, on the side `of Coniston Old Man, going up to the

mine ; and there, certainly, the appearances are plausible enough,

Iand should think worth looking at by one who is familiar with
Iglacier phenomena, which am not. When you go to Keswick,

call upon our brother and sister, Myers and Mrs Myers. He

is at the parsonage close to the pretty church, and will be glad

Ito see you, if he has not already been made known to you,
which perhaps he has.    think he is the only member of our

clan at present residing among the lakes. Mrs Marshall is in

London.

   I agree with you as to the overcharged importance of

Faraday's view of his recent discoveries, in their present form.

IBut if we had any one who could theorize well about them--
   do not say, rightly (that is too much to expect for a while),

but give us good theories which take up many of the facts, and

of coursehelp us to better--in that case the steps he has made

might be very important. The difficulty
                         a
                                                 a

                                                          is,

                                             I
                                                      I
                                         as conceive, to

imagine any machinery in crystal, and still more in a fluid,

by which circular polarization shall be produced. To do this

requires a clear mathematical head, and complete mastery of

all that has hitherto been done in mathematical optics.        am

grieved not to see in any of our mathematicians any symptom

of aptitude for such speculations. The worst attempt they could

make, on this subject, would be of far more value than mathe

matical investigations in subjects quite unfit for mathematical

handling, like geology.

   336 M. QUETELET. 1846.

   I Ibelieve Lyell returns in June.       do not know whether

   he has yet seen my admonitions1 to him on the very absurd part

   of his Travels in which he has chosen to attack me, or whether
   Ithey are to form part of his welcome home.
'                                               have barely seen,

   not read at all, Murchison's Geology. These large books repel
   I Ime. And, indeed,
                 do not know what               shall do with the
   Isubject, when arrive at it in my second edition of my History.
   I I Ithink have already told you that am employed in preparing
   Ia second edition for the press, and that shall be obliged to you
   Ifor any corrections of errors which have committed.

      I regretted very much that we were in London when Lord

   Mackenzie and his lady were here. Several of our friends saw

   Ithem and were much pleased with them, so that hope they

   Ienjoyed their visit here. Mrs Whewell joins me in kind regards

   to` Mrs Forbes, and am always,

                                         Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                         Tum. COLL. CAMBRIDGE, June 5, 1846.

   iMY DEAR QUETELET,                    i- I"
                                     `-
   I have especially to thank you for a discourse on the
   Isubject of Stevinus, whom
                                         am glad to see honoured as he
   Ideserves by his countrymen.
                                         am now employed in editing
   Iagain my History of the Inductive Sciences, and shall use the
   Ifinformation about Stevinus which you have given me.
                                                                              you

   can tell me anything more about him or about any others of
   Iyour Belgian men of science, shall be much obliged by your
   Iassistance.
                 shall not make very large additions to my History,
   Ibut if there is anything really important, which have omitted,
   I Ishall be glad to supply the defect.
                                           have not been able of
   Ilate to give much time to matters of science, but have not

   lost my love of the subject. One of the most interesting steps

   which has been made lately in this country is Faraday's dis

   covery of the influence of magnetism upon light through the

                 1 See Vol. 1. page 161.

                SIR J. F. w. HERSCHEL. 18.46.            337

medium of transparent bodies. Perhaps you have seen Airy's

article in the Philosophical Magazine for June, respecting the

mode in which this property of light will afi'ect  the equations
                                           '
ifor the vibrations of the medium.            1k
                                   i' 'I'

                                           W. WHEWELL.

                      CLIFF COTTAGE, Lowus'ror'r, July 3, 1846.

   MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

      I am greatly obliged by your information about donble
Istars, and will do my best to use it for my History in a proper

Ihistorical spirit.

       am also very much obliged by your remarks on my Morality;
Ifor am glad to know how the system strikes any candid thinker,
Iand especially you.
                      will make a few remarks in reply.
I make no pretensions to construct a system which shall not
I Icoincide with expediency in its results; but say that cannot

construct a system upon expediency, because expediency is too

vague a term, and does not imply anything ultimate or funda

mental} What is expedient must be expedient for some end;

and therefore a system which professes to be founded upon

expediency must really be founded upon that ulterior end. See

illorality, 555.

    If you say that this end is the general happiness of
Imankind, say that happiness also is indefinite, and means

only an ultimate end. To construct a system upon this basis,

we must define, measure, or analyse happiness. Those who have

founded systems of morality upon` happiness have pretended to

define happiness, and have, in my opinion, failed in doing this

so as to supply any solid or coherent ground of a system.

Morality, 550.
IWhen
        have taken the general sentiments of mankind,

and the Rules and Laws they have established, as guides or

Isuggestions for Moral Rules, have not neglected the motives

`and intentions with which such Rules and Laws have been

w. II.                                             22

338 MR J. r. w. HERSCHEL. 1846.

Iestablished.  have said that Rights must be established, in

order that there may be at least a moderate equilibrium

Iamong man's conflicting desires; and have attempted to shew

what Rights must exist, by taking into account man's most
Igeneral desires (Morality, 65, &c.).
                                       have said that Moral Rules

are determined by this consideration; that they must respect

Rights, and must affect the sentiments and intentions, as well as

Ithe actions.                                      cannot find
    This is the whole of my system. As to plan,

Iany way of determining Moral Rules by considering them as
means of getting some external object.  do find the means of

determining such Rulesby looking at the constitution of man;

Ihis Desires, his Reason which makes it possible for him to act
by Rules, and by self-restraining, self-educating Rules.  found

my Morality, not upon something which man is to get, but on

something which he is to be. He is to be truly a man: he is

Ito conform to Rules; to Rules which recognize a common
Humanity in himself and others.         found my Morality upon

this; that man must govern himself by moral Rules; and that

Ithis is not a vicious circular structure, consider the result proves.

We must conceive that man is a moral being, and then try to see

how he can be so.

   I do not reject experience; for it is by experience that we

become acquainted with man's constitution, his desires, the

relation of his reason to those, and the effect of rules upon his

moral constitution. Experience enables me to understand man's

Iconstitution more and more clearly, so that can see how he

may be, and may be made, moral. Experience in all things

operates to clear our ideas, and so, in morality.

     The difference between me and those who pretend to set
their systems by happiness, or by expediency, is not that we look
at different ends of the telescope, but that they have given rules
for putting the telescope in focus, which appear to me useless

Iand necessarily ineffective. My` way is to adjust the telescope

so that can see clearly through it. Or, if you like it better,
Iyou may take the image of the Rainbow which
                                                          have used
Iin my Lectures, p. 135. (I think sent you the book--in p. 152,

PROF. J. `D. FORBES. 1846.                                339

Iyou will find nearly what have now said expressed in other

ways.)

   If you look at Articles 65, 66, 67, you will see that my

system recognizes, as much as any, the way in which the necessity
of Rules depends upon the pain, fear, and confusion which'would

Iarise from the want of them: and in Art. 68 have stated why I
I do not think this is properly expressed by saying that mutual

Fear is the foundation of Morality. And in Articles 536 to 555,

I have given my reasons why none of the words Pleasureifnterest,

Happiness, Utility, Ewpedience, seem to me to describe rightly

Ithe basis of Morality; also in my 6th Lecture. But nowhere

deny that systems based on these grounds, do, by the aid of
natural assumptions, or by compensation of errors, come to the

Isame result as my system.
     Do not imagine from this that see no value or merit in any

Iother system than my own. But have tried to make a system

which should have the merit of avoiding assumptions and errors

Iwhich saw to be such.

                                                                        W. WHEWELL.

                                                                  Tan. LODGE, 1 Oct.`1846.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

       I I Isend you, as said should, the Notes to the next of
Imy Books which comes in the order of printing, though do

not know that there is anything which you have especially turned

your attention to in this part. The next Book, about Magnetism,

I Iis a more special subject of yours.                   -
        omitted to say in writing before that
                                               have, like you,

been led to a high estimate of Lambert's merits in giving to

I Imodern physics many Of its most important features and views.
   have been trying to get his books, for do not think we do
Ihim justice in judging him from papers in Transactions.
                                                          believe
I shall have a better opportunity of Speaking of him in the
IPhilosophy, when
                   have to discuss the modes of measuring
ISecondary Qualities, than could easily make in the History.
   I have now got to prepare the Book about Chemistry for

                                               22--2

340 sm R. I. MURCHISON. 1846.

the press. Have you any clear opinion about Liebig's merits,
Iand about Dumas's "types," and " substitutions"? am not called
I Iupon to speak of either, but if can see my way perhaps
                                                           may

say a word on those subjects.

                               Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

                               Tam. Loner, CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 20, 1846.

MY DEAR MURCHISON,
I I Ihave
I Iwhen                                to modify the statement
do not doubt that shall have           Cambrian and Silurian
made about the relation of             am not at all prepared
come to another edition, and

to dissent from your statements, or to resist your arguments. But

I have in all parts of my History avoided as much as possible

taking a part in existing controversies; and have in several

instances avoided to speak of the most recent steps in science on

Ithat account. The complete identification of Lower Silurian
and Cambrian is an instance of this.   could not, however much
I had been convinced myself, have made up my mind to declare
Sedgwick's " Cambrian " equal to zero as a separate formation.
If it be so, it is a very hard case, after all his laborious researches,

Iand his courage and magnanimity in always taking the most
stubborn portions of geological toil.  never thought him wise
Iin doing this; but cannot be one of the first to proclaim the

main action of his geological life a failure. You will not suffer

by my using still the language you would all of you have used
Ia little while ago, and am content to be a few months behind
Ithe time of day, if can so avoid giving pain to scientific
Iworkmen.
           hope you are too wise and longsighted to receive
Ipain from what have written, or left unwritten. You have
Ibetter roads to fame, even if my book had all the authority
   could ever desire for it.
                 a is s s

I have tried to weed all offence out of the book, and
I am persuaded you will not be the man to insist upon it that
I Ihave failed.
                 send back your paper, and am, dear Murchison,

                    Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1847.                                  341

JMY DEAR ONES,   Curr COTTAGE, Lownsror'r, Aug. 12, 1847.

.I have been reading Twiss's Lecture on the History        of

Political Economy, and have been wishing repeatedly that you

* would write a review of it for Empson. Surely he would be very

glad of such a review, and it would be little trouble to you who

have all the literature of the subject in your head. You might

Ifind in that way an easy opportunity of giving your opinion on

the leading points of the subject, and might, should think, make

Ian amusing article. He has, so far as can judge, taken hold of
Ithe main points of the history very well; though think in some

cases he has let the points slip too easily. For instance, he

appears to me to have muddled away Adam Smith's great dis
tinction of productive and unproductive labour, and to have given
his assent too easily to some of Say's extreme opinions, of which
the fallacy appears so very obvious. When they say that there
can be no excess of production which is not capable of being re

garded as a defect of responsive production, they forget how
difficult it is to devise such production. To find out such is an act
of discovery, and discoveries will not come at call, whatever they

may say. If you are to have articles suited to men's desires, you

must begin by considerinnghat men's desires are, and how limited.
Are not people perpetually inventing new articles of production

which do not take? and who shall say that at any given moment

Ithis difficulty can be overcome? If recollect, Malthus has well

disposed of this fallacy.                                weather.
     We are enjoying our sea breezes in this glorious

Peacock has just left us. Kindest regards to Mrs Jones.

                 Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                 TRIN. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 6, 1847.

MY DEAR FORBES,

It is some time since letters passed between us, as at some
Itimes happens; and now, as is not unfrequent also, break the
Isilence by sending you a book along with a letter.
                                                     have printed

342 PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1847.

Ia few verses, for copies of some of which was occasionally asked;

and as they are of various kinds, grave and jocose, original and

Itranslated, have several chances of pleasing you, though all of

Ithem together p'erhaps do not amount to more than a small frac

tion. However, be that as it may, know you will receive my

jingle kindly.

   I want to know if you can give me any advice as an experi
Ienced visitor of Paris in recent times. It is very long since was
Ithere, and am intending to take Mrs Whewell there to spend a
Ifew weeks this Christmas vacation.
                                     think most of my scientific
Ifriends, on whom formerly depended for access to good circles,

have disappeared. You have been there so recently, under cir

cumstances in some respects similar, that it is likely you can give

me information on this point, and perhaps means of using it.

Cuvier and Poisson and the like must make great blanks in

Parisian scientific society, but no doubt these blanks,  so far as

society is concerned, are in a great degree filled up.
                   s
             as a                    er.

                                                    I
        If you can give me any hints of the present state of such

matters at Paris, or tell me of any useful acquaintances whom
might otherwise miss, you will add to the many offices of friend

ship you have done me.
     Is there anybody at Paris who has taken up your glacier

theory       am still discontented with the want of justice towards
I
    a 2Iyou which our geologues have shewn, as sometimes tell them.
                                     I
          I                                      I

                                                              of
DO you make any use of the Malta mud-slide1 of which sent you

an account?

        have been much amused by the controversy between your

Sir W. Hamilton and De Morgan about the quantification            the

predicate; but cannot help condemning Sir W. very strongly.

It was great defect in literary morality to make a charge of

plagiarism in vehement and disparaging terms, on little founda

tion, and, as appeared afterwards, on none, and with scarcely a
possibility of its being founded: and was a still greater offence,
                   it

       This account was sent to Dr Whewell by Mr Milward, and afterwards comof
municated to the British Association at Swansea: see page 70 of the Transactions
     1
    the Sections in the Report for 1848.

      PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1848.                            v343

when he was compelled to retract the charge, vto do so in words,

but to go on repeating it in substance by insinuations. It is

curious to see our friends, the analytical mathematicians, seizing on

one subject after another--glaciers, faults of strata, earthquakes,

and now syllogisms.  They have at least as good a right to the last
as to the others.

                     it s s s

      Believe me, my dear Forbes,

                            Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                     Tam. LODGE, Mar. 6, 1848.

MY DEAR FORBES,

    I ought sooner to have written to you, if it were only to

thank you for a very kind and useful letter, which you sent me

Ibefore went to Paris. Your notices of the men of science there
Iwere valuable as mementos, and found most of them much as

you described them. Elie de Beaumont called upon me, but the

Ipersons of whom saw most were Arago, Humboldt, and Leverrier.

Arago was very attentive and obliging; and even then seemed not

without a presentiment that his labours at the observatory might

soon be interrupted or terminated. His brother Etienne had then

just written a play which was performing at the Francais, and

                            it,
                                  is

                                   I
Arago gave us tickets to go and see which did--my wife was

kept away by indisposition. The play Les Aristocraties--the

three Aristocracies--that of the old re'gime, 0f the empire, and of

the manufacturing world--and the last was represented as super

seding the others: a tone which prevailed in many of the stage

representations which      saw. Etienne Arago now Postmaster
of the Republic, and,      suppose, will no longer tolerate even
                     ¥ II            a                          a

manufacturing aristocracy.              I
                                               *
                            *9 iii                  is

I  saw less of the men of science than had done on former

occasions, but can hardly say that this was entirely owing to any
   I

backwardness of theirs, for we were  good deal engaged with

other friends at our end of the town. We were at the Hetel

344 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1848.

Vantini, which is not far from the one where you were; having
Ibeen recommended to go thither by the Peacocks.
                                                                                                 think that

probably yours would have been better, though ours was good.

Certainly yours would have supplied a better view of the Revolu

tion, if we had staid to see it. In that case we should at any rate

                        it,
                                                a

                                            I

                                                               I
have had enough of for there were several barricades close to

the door of the hotel.

What are we to say of the Revolution?           am disgusted with

the ignoble fall of the monarchy, and afraid that nothing but

mischief can be looked for from democracy so extravagantly

democratic as they are going to try to construct. When was

there, all persons, even Guizot's friends, were blaming the stiffness

of the way in which his master and he were dealing with reform;

but nobody could conceive that the government of Louis Philippe
Was so entirely without any rOots in the soil.  suppose, in fact,
it

     is

         it

                                             II

                                                                                              a
a double revolution; the Government overthrown by the

Reformers, and the Liberals by the Labourers.       only hope that

they will work out within their own frontiers the problem which

Ifthey have set themselves, and not throw Europe into flame.

they do, we have the world thrown back into the condition in

which was when we were born, and have been grinding on for

so many years to no purpose. And then we shall have the conti
nent closed to us ;--if indeed we escape having England opened to
them, which will no doubt be one of the attempts in case of a

wan--though must say never heard anyone in Paris dwell
I
         II

             iIf

                                    is

                        I

                                     it

                                                   is

                                                I
                                                            I
upon such a project, or speak of the alarm, which has been ex

pressed in England, as otherwise than absurd.                                                    have been
     Are you doing anything in the way of science?

once more turning to the Tides, and trying to put the Tides of

the Pacific in order; but there really no more to be done with

out a Tide expedition: the greater part Of the recent observations

are of no value. Some of our young men have been publishing a

monograph of the Aurora Borealis of last September, which

'would send you  thought had not yet reached you.

hope Mrs Forbes well. Mrs Whewell joins me in kindest

regards, and am always, my dear Forbes,

                        Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                  REV. R. JONES. 1848.                   345

                              Tam. LODGE, Ap. 30, 1848.

MY DEAR JONES,

      I hope you prosper, or have prospered, at Bournemouth.
IWhen you reported to me that you were going thither, did
Inot even know on what part of the coast it was; but
                                                         have

since had it described to me as a very pretty and pleasant place
Iin Dorsetshire [Hampshire].
                              hear too, through Empson, that

you flourish there, and am glad to hear it.
Of course you will soon look at Mill's book on Political
Economy. It is full of interesting discussions on all the great

social and economical questions of the day, and there are argu

I I Iments and views extremely well put throughout. Nor have
found anything which quarrel with (although  think he

will draw to himself much 0dium by some of his ultra-Malthusian

Idoctrines)--except the injustice towards you of which think

he is guilty. He says (Vol. I. p. 295) that your book is "a

copious repertory of valuable facts,',' &c. Now this is very

disparaging praise, and, whether he means it so or not, is the

way in which people speak of books, when they want to deny

their originality and philosophical value. The criticism is
extremely unreasonable with regard to your book, because its

peculiar and distinctive character is its originality in the point

of view in which the facts are regarded, and its philosophical
Iclassification.
                  do not see how Mill can be either ignorant of

the novelty or the value of your classification of cultivations,

for he makes it the basis of his own speculations--B. II. C. 6,

Peasant Proprietors; C. 7, continued; C. 8, Metayers ; C. 9,

Cottiers. He spoils the classification indeed by lumping together

Cottiers and Ryots, who surely are very broadly distinguished,

Iand, think, dependent on quite different laws for their progress

in improvement. But having read books on such subjects very

carefully, as he has, he must have known that the idea of making

such a classification, and, what is a great deal more, the making

it the basis of principles which regulate the distribution of wealth
and the progress of society, is entirely yours. He has been

much more considerate towards a Mr Rae, whom he represents

346 PROF. J. D. FORBEs. 1848.

    p. 197) justly, for aught know, as the author of original
views on capital. Then again, think he has you in his mind
in p. 217, where he holds that the proportional produce of land

necessarily decreases with the extension of agriculture. Here,
is (I.                                    II
          is
                                                     is
           a ithowever,      not so much that he unjust, as that his argument

                    is
                            a
    good for nothing--or rather proves his own classification and
corresponding principle to be false. How can we say, with

any sound sense or use, that the produce of land} increases

universally in diminishing ratio, when we have to allow that
          principle, which we call " the progress of civilization,"
there

skill and the like, which may prevent this diminishing ratio

for centuries, and during the whole life of a nation?                   wish
                                        it

                                                       I
                                                               I

                                                                      I

                                                                                                be
you could be here and we could discuss this book day by day,

as we used to do Malthus and Ricardo.                           mean, wish this,

that might have your help in getting hold of the subject now,
II
as had then. Besides, was very pleasant--and would                                                  so

again. Adieu.                             Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                          TRIN. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 14, 1848.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

       II was much obliged by your taking for granted that

I  should be willing to revise your MS}, and give you my best

opinion upon it. That kind of service                       often so useful, and
                                                            is
                                                                    is  willing, that
may be so easily rendered by any one who                                a
                                                                                  it
appears to me one of the most essential parts of friendship.
And so will tell you how the matter strikes me, as plainly

and simply as can.                        presume, from the interest which you
                             I it I  is
take in the question, that Macaulay's speech made                       great
                                       I
impression in Edinburgh, as from its clever, lively sophistry,

and flattering doctrines for the populace,                  a it  was likely to do.

This being so,                       very natural that you should wish to

obviate the effect of such sophistry upon your pupils; and your

lectures would,                    have no doubt, produce       very beneficial effect
Ifon their minds.
                                     the lectures were published, they would

                                     1  See Vol. page 172.1.

             PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1848.                           347

Icertainly do you credit, so far as can pretend to conjecture the
Ipublic judgment; but think you must be prepared to find

that you do not carry the general sympathy of the public with
Iyou, do not mean as to the substance, but as to the mode
Iand occasion, of the controversy.
                                    will try to give my reasons

for thinking this. Even without any special circumstances, the

act of publishing an argumentative pamphlet in reply to a

lively occasional speech, the reply coming many months after

Ithe occasion, and when most persons had forgotten the speech

altogether, would, think, he considered as treating the matter

too gravely and controversially. But it would probably be

considered further that Macaulay had a right to a good deal of

indulgence on the occasion. He was speaking for a Mechanics'

Institute, and was to select within reasonable limits such views

as were likely to be agreeable to the members of such bodies.

It might be considered ungracious to quarrel with him because

his topics were effective. Some persons might say "Let the

Professor, if he pleases, warn his pupils that the reading of
Academic Students, if it is to be of any value, is to be something

very different from that thus recommended to the members of

Mechanics' Institutes; but do not let him expect those, who have

to address such bodies, to talk to them on principles which

would shew all such Institutions to be absurdities." Then again
the very cleverness and rapidity of Macaulay's sophistry makes

Iit difficult to answer him effectively; and am not sure that

you do not increase the difficulty by taking into account what
you call practical knowledge. For in regard to the advocate,

a talent which is really much admired among them is that of

getting up a case very rapidly, even if it is forgotten very soon
when it is over; and in the case of the statesman it is not at

all generally agreed what value knowledge has in his character,

especially what we should call profound knowledge. What we

want in him is wisdom, which is something different from
Iknowledge.
             do not say you are not quite right on these points,
Ibut do not think you would carry the world with you so

entirely as to make this a good first stage of your argument. -

348 PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1848.

   I am, 'as you may well suppose, quite ready to assent to
Iyour arguments as regards speculative knowledge. But am not
I Isure that, if had had to treat the subject, should not have

added a few others; which however you may perhaps think, and

it may be with a good deal of justice, are merely other ways
Iof stating those arguments which you have given.
                                                              should
Ifor instance have exposed, and, if could, ridiculed, Macaulay's

notion that the growth of knowledge from age to age is a

homogeneous measurable growth, so that a man is a dwarf to

Ione age and a giant to another; the growth being more like
that of the boy to the youth or the man.  should have tried

to illustrate very clearly--as clearly and brightly as Macaulay

Ihimself, if could--that a little knowledge is a very different

thing when it is all that the age possesses, and when it is a

Ilittle scrap of a great existing body of knowledge. And holding,

as you know do, a great opinion of the influence of words in

Isuch cases, should have tried to explain that a little knowledge,

taken out of a great up-grown body of knowledge by persons

who had not followed the growth, must needs be verbal, and

Itherefore worthless. But should have had great difficulty in
Isatisfying myself in the exposition of these views, and cannot but

laugh to think what a puzzle Macaulay has set us by a few

I I Isentences of his clever rhetoric.                        do
        have said more than intended, but nothing that

not intend; for such a plain exposition of my views may best

help you to decide as to the extent to which you will publish
If Iyour lectures.
                      you do, have no doubt that they will be
Iconsidered sound and right.
                              do not think that in my eyes

they would add to the high literary reputation which the style,

as well as other excellencies, of your Travels has secured for

Iyou ; but they will certainly stand as a vigorous protest against
a seductive fallacy.  have spoken with Parker about publish

Iing them. He is willing to give you half profits, taking the
payment of the expenses upon himself.     generally publish

I Iupon such terms in matters of which the sale is doubtful.
wish  could have gone with you to see the tubular

                PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1848.                                                   349

Ibridges.  tried in vain to make room for them in the course

I IOf my summer's wanderings.

       keep your MS, till receive your directions about
                                                                        I                   and
                                                                             is I
am always
                                                                                    it it,
                          Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                          TBIN. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 24, 1848.

MY DEAR FORBES,

          send back your MS, but should do so with great
II                              II
                                      a
      if

                       a
reluctance, such step were to put negative on your publish

ing the lectures. The circumstance which you mention, in regard
to which was in error, namely, that they1 were not addressed to

a Mechanics' Institute, but to a Literary Association, in the
presence of eminent men, makes a very great difference in

my mind, as you may suppose from the arguments                                            used;

and now incline to think you would do well to print the
I
    I
lectures. Perhaps you will ask some better advice than mine.

have read the MS. over again, and am much struck with the

argument beginning on page 37.         still hesitate as to the argu

ment drawn from the practical sciences. DO you not lay too
much stress upon the sudden acquisition of knowledge? and

will not this call up a plea for quick abilities? Have you not

rested much upon the word empirical without fixing its meaning

exactly? When             implies a reference to experience,
if                                                                                          easy

     I
               it
                it, I it

                                                                1

                            is I
                                   I is
to distinguish empiricism from experience? But does not the

word empiric generally imply some pretence to knowledge which

the empiric does not possess, and                                  not this out of the range

of your argument? You see tell you all my scruples about

this part of the argument, for all the rest appears to me

                                                                   it,
excellent, and such that the publication of when the occasion

on which   was delivered  taken into account, cannot fail to

do you credit.   send the MS. back however, because, even

you do print              you may perhaps look at one or two notes

which have made, besides what have said.                                doubt the

                          Macaulay's remarks.

350     M. QUETELET. 1849.

prudence of accepting Macaulay's antithesis of shallow and pro
found knowledge, as applied to early and late times. The

knowledge of the later times is more advanced, more extended;

Ibut not more profound necessarily, except in more profound
minds.  do not know, however, whether you can easily alter
Ithis. You may easily suppose that
                                    did not without much

reluctance say anything which was likely to give you even
Islight and transient annoyance.
                                  should have been ungrateful,
Ias well as unfriendly, if had been careless on this head after
Ithe way in which you have quoted me in the lecture.
                                                             do

not know any ancient passage which much resembles Pope's.

There is the noted line about Margites ascribed to Homer:

        '0: fi'lrlu-raro nohlui KaKo'is 6' finlararo ndvra.
         Much did he know, and ill he knew it all,

I Iwhich has always been accepted as good satire.
       send the MS. separately. shall be glad to put it in Parker's

hands, if you resolve to publish through him. We are looking

forwards with some solicitude to the voting about our New
Regulations`, which is to take place on the 31st.

                                 Believe me, my dear Forbes,

                                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                                    Lennon, May 21, 1849.

   MY DEAR M. QUETELET,

      I have received your letter, in which you gave me the

gratifying intelligence that the Class of Letters and of the
Moral and Political Sciences of Belgium has done me the honour
to inscribe my name among those of its Foreign Associates.

I am extremely grateful for the recognition of my humble
Ilabours in those departments, which is thus shewn by the emi

nent men of whom your Academy is composed, and shall think

myself very fortunate, if any speculations on such subjects, which

     1 These Regulations established the Triposes for Moral Sciences and Natural
Sciences, and exempted those who passed in these or in the Classical Tripos from
the necessity of taking Mathematical honours.

                   M. QUETELET. 184.9.                          351

I may be able to carry on, may be found worthy to be com

Imunicated to that enlightened body, and may tend to promote
the progress of Literature, Morals, or Politics.  beg to thank

you, my dear Mr Secretary, for the manner in which you have

communicated to me this agreeable information, a new act of

Ifriendship, in addition to many already received; and have

the honour to be, with sentiments of the deepest regard for

.you, and of respect for my honoured colleagues,             '

                   Your very faithful servant, W. WHEWELL'.

                   KREUZNACH, Rnnmsn PRussiA, CURnAus, Aug. 26, 1849.

MY DEAR QUETELET,

                    a as s s

I Ihave seen little of men of science while have been on

the Continent. Argelander, as you probably know, has now got

Ia spacious observatory at Bonn, which he is gradually furnishing
with instruments.  saw there also Dove of Berlin, who is

travelling to various places where meteorological observations

have been undertaken, and comparing the instruments used with
Ihis own.
           dare say you know much more about the project of
I Ithese combined observations than do, for have of late been

I Iout of the way of persons who take an interest in such matters,

but still look upon you meteorologists (for may consider you
as one, though you are other and greater things besides) as
among the cultivators of science, who are most likely to arrive at

some large and interesting results. We saw a great number

Iof falling stars on the 10th of August, but have not yet seen

any report which enables me to judge whether a greater number

of such phenomena than usual were observed about that time.

IMy chances of visiting the continent become, fear, less and less,

as years go on, and the ties of my position at home become
Imore numerous, so that would not willingly lose any chance
I Iof seeing you when
                   must pass so near you.         cannot help

congratulating you on the admirable fortune of Belgium in the

middle of all the disturbances by which neighbouring states have

352 REV. R. JONES. 1849.

been shaken. The result appears to me to prove the wisdom
which prevailed in the establishment of your constitution after

Iyour revolution, but should be curious to have your views

on this subject. With my affectionate regards to Mad. Quetelet,
                          Believe me, yours most truly, 1V. \VHEWELL.

                                Tam. LODGE, Ap. 23, 1849.

MY DEAR Jones,                         IWhen was in

I hope your new Commission lprospers.
Itown, found Buckland much troubled at the claims put forth,

or implied, by the Duke of Richmond and the other Lessees in
I Itheir manifesto.
                told him thought he might depend upon
Iyou and Lyall for preventing any mischief. But have since
Iseen their advertisement, and
                                do think it is impudent and

bullying. They say that of church property the value of 14

millions belongs to the lessors and 21 millions to the lessees,

"according to recent calculations." Now either their "calcula
Iftions" assume a right of renewal, or they do not.
                                                     they do,

they assume what the lessors deny, and what has no foundation
Ifin law, and, in many cases, none in practice.
                                                  they do not

assume this right, apparently the calculation is exaggerated;

but, if it be correct, there is no reason for their movement, for

nobody wants to take their present leases from them. So much

for their case; but one can by no means afford to despise
impudent bullying in these times. So pray take care of the

lessors. And query, why ought they not to be heard by counsel,

if the lessees are?

To talk of other matters--of your book, which has never had

Ijustice done it. We have had an intelligent Irish member

staying here, to whom shewed your chapter on Cottier Rents,

and he objected to it that, in fact, the Cottiers mostly pay their
Irents in labour, so that they are really serfs.
                                                  shewed him

a passage in Bicheno's Evidence on Ireland in 1836, which

confirms your account, and he would have it that Bicheno's

views were coloured by the recent perusal of your book. How
ever this may be, it is plain that the designation of such a class

                                                                           I      353

            ARCHDEACON HARE. 1849.

Iis requisite in order to trace its peculiar consequences.                        told

you how Mill had spoilt your great normal division of tenants by

confounding Cottiers with Ryots, and had not had the grace to
                                               I wish somebody
acknowledge where he got what he spoilt.

I Iwould do justice in these matters. People will not mind me
when  write Political Economy, except indeed                                  join to it

mathematics, and make nonsense of it.

You know that we are looking for a new Downing Prof. of

Law. Amos and James Stephen are the best candidates, and

I had rather have Stephen in the History Professorship.

                          Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                       Tum. Loncn, Oct. 26, 1849.

iMY DEAR HARE,            *               'i'
                           *

      I was very glad to see Mrs Augustus Hare here a short
Itime ago.
            gave her for you a short critique of some of Hegel's

vagariesl. There is nothing which so entirely deprives me of all

respect for German heads in the matter of reasoning as the way

in which they have allowed Hegel to domineer over them. It

appears to me that on every subject he is equally fanciful and

shallow, though he may not be so demonstrably wrong as in

the matter of Newton. Sedgwick is mightily delighted and

entertained with my paper. He is writing somewhat about the

Germans, apropos of Strauss, in a new preface to his ancient

Academical Sermon. This preface will be of monstrous length,

Ias it well may be, for it has been growing for several years,

but, have no doubt, will contain many excellent things excel
I Ilently Well said; and wish much it were done.
                                                                              am much

afraid his lectures will overlay it this term, and give rise to

another procrastination.

            *- v* *- "X'

Give our kindest regards to Mrs Hare.

                          Affectionately yours, W. WHEWELL.

            1 See Vol. 1. pages 317 and 318.

w. 11.                                                                        23

354 SIR R. I. MURCHISON. 1850.

                                      Tam. Lonon, Jan. 2, 1850.

MY DEAR MURCHISON,

Sedgwick's arm is broken, but the fracture is as simple as

may be ; the right upper arm bone broken just below the shoulder;
so high up that it cannot be set with splints, and is bound tight

against his side.iIs,  He was attended to immediately after the
accident, and          believe, going on as well as may be. He is

subject to some oscillations in his progress towards convalescence,

arising principally from things which are in themselves very

good--high spirits and numerous friends. On Sunday he saw

so many persons that he got excited, and passed the ensuing
night sleepless and in distress, which made him much worse the

next day; and indeed he has hardly yet got over that check.

But Humphry, his surgeon, says he going on well, and we take
                       a
                                              is

                                                it

                                                           is
care to have him well nursed. The fall was in the frost, and

when he was going at canter, so that                           not surprising he
                                                               if

was a good deal bruised in various parts. The mammoth will

play him no more such tricks, for .his knees were so much

damaged that all thought of riding him again was at an end.

Our excellent friend has certainly been very unfortunate in his

horsemanship. You know perhaps, as    I  do, how patiently he

takes the confinement and pain which these calamities bring

upon him, but all his patience cannot prevent great suffering
and weariness. He was just upon the point of printing the new

edition of his sermon, withaa  preface of above 400 pages! This
accident will again delay      work which has already been pro

mised, think, for ten years.
II
hope Lady MurchisonI           is  well. Pray offer her from Mrs

Whewell and me our kind remembrances and best wishes that

1850 may be to both of you year of health and happiness.
                                   a

Always, my dear Murchison,

                             Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

        shall not be able to send you any more bulletins after this,
for we go to Lowestoft to-morrow.

           PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.             355

           Tam. Lonon, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 28, 1850.

MY DEAR FORBES,

    I am afraid you must have thought me almost Obstinately

Isilent of late, so far as correspondence with you is concerned. In
truth  have been more busy than usual, giving lectures on
IMoral Philosophy to a greater extent than have hitherto done,
Iin order to make our new examinations as effective as can;
I Iand think see a promise of good working for the new system,

if we can go on steadily and judiciously for a few years, till our

new lines Of study take something of a set. You will easily

understand that this is a matter in which failure is possible, for

we shall have examiners to educate as well as candidates; and if

the Tutors do not take up the new scheme cordially, we shall

Ihave the enactments of the University evaded by some merely

nominal conformity to them. However, as yet see no prospect of

any difficulties, except such as we may hope to get well over. Our

new Professor of English Law has not yet made his lectures very

instructive, but he will probably learn to do so as he comes more

into contact with the students, and we expect great things from
our new Professor of Modern History, Sir James Stephen, who is

to lecture next term. He has been, as you probably know, one of

the great luminaries of the Edinburgh Review in the historical

line.

   I have not yet turned my thoughts to our task of reporting to

the British Association on the result of our former Report. Indeed

I do not yet quite understand what we are desired to do. You,
I think, have a view on this point derived from what passed at the
Imeeting.
           should be very glad if you would draw up a sketch of

a Report for us to make. However slight and imperfect the
sketch, it would shew me the nature of what is intended, and the

form into which any special suggestions must be cast. With

Iregard to your proposal that new experiments on the laws of

conduction should be made, should think it a great gain to

science if you would undertake such; and a recommendation to

that effect would be a very valuable part of our Report, if it were
If I Ilikely to lead to any such result.
           find that have any plans

                                          23--2

356 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.

Iwhich want to propose, and which may be connected with our

I IReport, will try to put them into shape, but, in truth, do not

Iknow that have any which will bear that operation.

    Our plans, as well as yours, are as yet unsettled for the sum
If I Imer.
           were at liberty, should like well to come into your
Icountry and to travel there a little, for it is long since have

seenit,J  and  I it     pleasant visiting ancient haunts in company
                    is
with one's wife. My Edinburgh friends are, find, diminishing.
                                       I
                                               I
Lord etfrey and Mrs Alison are lately taken away; both of them

persons whom much valued. But have doubts whether we

shall be at liberty to go northwards the ensuing summer.                                                     iIf Ithink

it  likely that Mrs Whewell will be advised to go again to

Kreuznach, near Bingen, for the waters, the place where we were

last summer, and in that case must content myself with excur
                           is

                              I
                                       I
sions of which that point the origin; these, however, by the aid

of railroads may go to some distance.                  was as far as Basle last

summer, and should have gone into Switzerland further,                                                              had

had time.

I        do not `know whether you have heard that Ellis1 has been

very ill in the South of France. He left Nice and took the road
to Italy, but when he had gone a short way he became so ill that

he was obliged to stop at little village, Saint Remo think, on
the Cornice Road. At his request we had his case referred to in
                 I                                                                                           I
                                    a
                                I                                                                                               is
our chapel prayers. Since then         am glad to hear that he

much recovered.         do not know how he has finally modified his

plans.I
         do not know anything about the Royal Society and their
                        I
pension" except what saw in the newspapers. If they had taken

counsel of the persons who have managed that part of the British
Association business, they might have learnt both the difliculties

and the advantages of having money for such purpose.
                                            at s as
    21

                                 ii

                                                                                                          a

                                                                                a
                           Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

       Robert Leslie Ellis, of Trinity College.        year placed at the disposal of
        This refers to the Government grant of £1,000
the Royal Society.

SIR R. I. MURCHISON. 1850.                           357

                                                     Tam. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Mar. 17, 1850.

MY DEAR MURCHISON,

    I have been making my arrangements to come to London

for a day so as to be present at the meeting of the Royal Society
Icommittee on Thursday.
                         shall be very glad if plans can be

devised by which the Government boon may be made a benefit to

IScience; but think you will agree with me that to engineer it so

as to produce this effect is not a very easy matter. We know the

great difficulty which we had in managing undertakings supported

by the money of the British Association; by no means mainly

from the difficulty of procuring the money, but much more from

the difficulty of avoiding the appearance and the reality of waste,
Icaprice, partiality and jobbing. Some persons,
                                                 find, doubt

whether the old practice of applying the screw of opinion in the

scientific world to Government on each special occasion was not

better than this perennial stream of bounty. But as the boon has

been offered, an offer very creditable indeed to the spirit of the

Government and the nation, it is very fit that we should try if

Iit cannot be worked out to some good purpose, and shall hope to

attend the meeting on Thursday, and to hear what suggestions
Ican be offered for such a purpose.
                                     might perhaps make some
I Imyself, but am not quite sure that like the responsibility of

Ihandling, or directing the handling of parliament money.
        have so long ceased to take any part in the business of the

IRoyal Society, that shall probably find myself quite perplexed

with the views and practices of the present managers. As to the

question of the medals, the project of giving all or the principal

of our prizes to merit, without any regard to the scientific achieve

ments of our own Society and our own countrymen, appears to

me a cosmopolitan claptrap, which, followed out, would make an

English Royal Society an absurdity. The project of commuting
I Ithe medal for a money payment
                         look upon as very base.
Ithink (as always thought) the cycle of subjects for the prize an
Iinconvenient and pedantic restriction, so that shall probably

come very near to you in my conclusions.

are a                    a                as

                         Yours always, \V. WHEWELL.

358 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.

                       Wnsrmmsrnn, May 6, 1850.

MY DEAR FORBES,

    I Iwrite from Westminster school where am placed in an

official chair for two days to listen tO the examination of the

scholars for election to Christ Church and Trinity College.

IMrs Whewell wrote, think, the other day to Mrs Forbes, and
Iexpressed, suppose, the regret, which we both very strongly feel,

that we cannot look forward to the pleasure of being with you at

Edinburgh in the beginning of August. It is doubtful whether

our sojourn at Kreuznach will be terminated at that time, for
though we set 011' early in June, and the doctors talk at present of

six weeks only, they are much in the habit of finding at the end

of the first period that a fortnight or so may be added with advan

tage; and when the discipline Of the place is over, it leaves the

patient in a condition not very favourable to travelling or any

other exertion. Perhaps we have a better chance of seeing you at
IfBonn.
         you are there at the time that we pass up the Rhine,

we may be able to stay there a day or two for the pleasure of
Iseeing you.
               hope this letter will reach you before you set out

upon your travels, and if so, pray let me know when you will be

at Bonn, and how you are to be found there. And when you

leave Bonn for watering places, why should Kreuznach not be one
Iof them? It is a place by no means devoid of attraction for a
little while.  believe you know where it is. To get to it you

must leave your Rhine boat at Bingen and go by omnibus
                                                    I
which there are abundance) or other carriage about eight miles upa
the valley Of the Nahe. There a fine gorge, where the river      (of
                is is
breaks through some porphyry rocks, and some interesting ruins.

And you go elsewhere to other baths within a moderate dis
if

  I
         I

             I
tance of Kreuznach, may again have the pleasure of seeing you

there; for though Mrs Whewell fixed in her brine (like sea
nymph), make circuits of various forms and amplitudes around

her. Last year roamed as far as Basle, besides various excur

sions to the Brunnen. Pray say whether you cannot take account

of these things in planning your summer movements.  hope

Ellis better and mending, though slowly and doubtfully. Cope,is

        SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL. 1850.                             359

one of our Fellows, went to him at Nice, and he then intended

to set off very soon afterwards, and to travel by easy stages to

wards England. This sudden inspiration of Lord John's will,
I'am afraid, disturb our progress very much. He means us no

immediate harm, and the young Whigs like the project out of a

pure and overwhelming love of Blue Books. But on a subject

where there is so much ignorance, there is no saying what turn a

Blue Book may give to the thoughts of reformers; especially if

we come to have a radical ministry, which does not appear to be

at all out of the sphere of possibilities. Sir J. Stephen is giving

admirable lectures, and gaining favourable opinions in the Uni

versity rapidly, notwithstanding the misfortune of coming under

accusation as a heretic: they found out that he was a Gnostic,
                           I think your article on the Obser
much to his astonishment.

vatory at Greenwich must please all readers who like information

on such matters, by its fulness and clearness; and the subjects

are popularized as much as can be done without sacrificing essen

tials.

        * ¥ '1' *

        Believe me always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                           Tam. Loves, CAMBRIDGE, June 2, 1850.

   MY DEAR HERSCHEL,

     I Jsend you all the papers which have been published by

the authorities here, including Lord ohn's letter, which is of

course the most important of them, so far as your determination
I Iis concerned.
        have no doubt speak the sense of the whole of
Ithe University, when say that there is no one person whom they

I Iwould more willingly have as Commissioner than you, if Commis
sioners they must have.    think too can venture to say, that

though it may be thought proper to publish some protest against

the justice and reasonableness of such an act on the part of the

Government at the present time, there will be no substantial op

position made to the application for information on the general

management of the University and of Colleges, except perhaps if

360  _  PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.

the details of the management of property are gone into, which it

I Imay be thought unbusiness-like to promulgate without necessity.
  may say further, that do not think it impossible that the Com
mission should result in some good: for instance, if they were to

publish such an account of the crying evil of the university--pri

vate tuition--as might enable us, who have hitherto fought with

Iit in vain, to get dominion `Over it. You will find Peacock quite

as strongly opposed to this practice as am. Even that part of

the purpose of the Commission which alarms our Colleges the

most--the conversion of some of the non-resident Fellowships into

resident Professorships--if it could be done without invading the

corporate rights of Colleges, as perhaps it might, would .be a very

material gain to our system.

   If you are afraid of any disfavour which the office of Com

missioner might bring you in your own College, you might write

Ito your Master, and ask him whether he would be likely to share

such a feeling, and, if not, do not think that. you need fear its

existence on the part of any one else. Your Fellows supplied

the strongest part of the opposition to the new system; and some

of these opponents would not join us in opposing the Commission,

but they opposed it on grounds of their own. Still, if it'must be,
I do not doubt that all would like to have you on the Commission.
I shall be glad to know if you accept.  '

        Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

    [Sir J. F. W. Herschel became one of the Commissioners, under

the condition that he should be at liberty to resign his post after

a year's service if he wished to do so. He continued however to

the end, and signed the Report, with the other Commissioners, on

August 30th, 1852.]

                                                                                     BINGEN, June 25, 1850.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

       I have unwillingly put off writing to you so long, for
I Ihoped to write that was coming to Kissingen, or else to an
Inounce myself in person. But went to Frankfort nearly a week

ago, and found the weather so hot, that, after making an excursion

                PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.                 361

Ito Homburg, had not courage to undertake the fifteen hours'

Idrive to your sojourn, with the necessary consequence of at least
an equal journey back again.  say at least, for one of my plans

was to go from Kissingen to Fulda, which is a great ecclesiastical

Iname- in middle age history, and where suppose there must be
Isome architectural remains of former greatness, though believe '

much has been rebuilt in modern times. As the thermometer

Iwas, gave up all such plans, and rushed away from the blazing

Zeil into the valley of the Rhine. Here, at this bend of the

river, and with the deep ravine near you, you can almost always

I Ifind some shady corner; and as soon as got here, was delighted

to get into a skiff and plunge into the afternoon gloom at the foot

of Rheinstein. Besides, the river with its eddies brings cool airs,

and with its rippling reminds you pleasantly that it does so, and

Iyou can go to innumerable points without dust, jolting, or hired
horses.       have been at various neighbouring places within the
Ilast few days, and shall return to Kreuznach to-morrow.
                                                          think

the Rhine brings us down a taste of your friends, the glaciers, out

of which it flows. My boatman, who is a sort of philosopher,

made the remark to me, and bade me dip my hands in it by way
Iof proof.
              admire the constancy which you shew to your ancient
Ilove, Mont Blanc.
                    shall be surprized if it does not appear that
IMrs Forbes becomes jealous of her.
                                        should like much to visit
Isome of the glaciers under your guidance, but cannot manage

to execute such a plan at present. Later, if Mrs Whewell is well

enough, we have thoughts of moving in that direction; but any

such movement must be later, and indeed after your return to
          I Iam very sorry that cannot be at the Edinburgh
England.  I have directed copies of some recent (printed) papers
meeting.

of mine to be sent thither; one on the Tides for the members of

the Committee of Section A; and one on Political Economy for

the Committee of that Section. Perhaps you may have time to
Ienquire if they arrived and are distributed.
 IEconomy                                      think the Political

I
          will  perhaps  interest you.  grieve not to see you

while we are describing our continental orbits. Kind regards to

your sister.

                         Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

362 REV. R. JONES. 1850.

                                      KREUZNAOH, RHENISH PBUBSIA, July 5, 1850.

MY DEAR JONES,

III                                   i- 5K-
                                              `K-

                 I
                                    it

                            I

                                               it

                                                                           a

                                                                                                               9K

                                                I
      have heard nothing more of our University Commission,

vbut have little doubt that will issue in some form or other;

and should suppose we may meet in such a way as to incur no

needless danger; but, confess,               have    strong persuasion that

Lord John will not be satisfied till his move has ended in some

thing being done as to the distribution of funds, and do not see

how anything of that kind can be done without a most perilous

infraction of our corporate rights. However, when we see the

course that taken, we must try to make the best of it. Tell
if

              is

          I
                               is
me you learn what likely to be done in this matter.

Just before left England, printed a paper (in our Camb.
                                      I
                                        I
                                                 I
                                                         it I
Phil. Trans.) on certain algebraical ways of dealing with certain

questions of Political Economy.                forget whether directed a

copy to be sent to you. Perhaps not, for deemed likely that

you would "pooh pooh" the algebra. But the paper really does
contain refutation of certain vaunted theorems of John S. Mill
      a

            I
                  is I
on International Trade; and shews them to be true, even on their

mathematical assumptions, within very narrow limits. Since                                                         is I I

have been here, have been pursuing the subject, and think
                                                     I
have discovered the solution of a problem which recollect tellingII

you twenty years ago wanted much tosolve, namely, what

the cause and what                    the measure of the different values of

money in different countries. The main point of my solution

comes to this, that the value of money high in a country whichis

has the (money) balance of trade steadily in its favour, and Of

course, low, when the balance         it is  against the country.                                                  do not

know whether this new:                     is  certainly very different from
      it

           is
                                  is
Senior's celebrated solution ("on the art of procuring money"),

and not in John Mill; but follows irresistibly from his
                                             it

principles. This conclusion also entirely overthrows the doctrine

which appears to me to be current, that there can be no permanent

balance against or in favour of country. This no more true,
      it
than       is

                                                  a
                                                                                  is
      true that, because water seeks its level, two neigh

PROFESSOR FARADAY. 1850.                      363

bouring ponds connected by a narrow channel cannot be perma

nently at different levels. They may be at levels very different,

if there be a machine which constantly pumps the water out of

the lower into the higher. Such a machine is the power of pro

ducing articles for which there is a demand abroad; and this

machine may work in one direction with a surplus Of result to a

very large amount. This is not a mere figure of speech; or, at

least, it is a figure Of speech which may be confirmed by figures of
I Iarithmetic in the most undeniable manner.
believe shall be

able to discuss several other of John Mill's doctrines in a similar

way; which you will not wonder at, if you recollect that they are,

as he gives them, little more than arithmetical examples Of prin

ciples, assumed as if proved to be absolutely and mathematically
true. We shall be here for a month longer, if your summer

Iholiday-making leads you this way, as hope it will.

Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                KREUZNACH, BHENISH Paussm [1850].

                                [To Professor FARADAY]
   MY DEAR SIR,

      I am always glad to hear Of your wanting new words,
Ibecause the want shews that you are pursuing new thoughts, and

your new thoughts are worth something: but always feel also
how difficult it is for one, who has not pursued the train of thought,
to suggest the right word. There are so many relations involved in
a new discovery, and the word ought not glaringly to violate any
of them. The purists would certainly object to the opposition, or
co-ordination, of terromagnetic and diamagnetic, not only on ac
count Of the want of symmetry in the relation Of terro and did,
but also because the one is Latin, and the other Greek. But these
Objections, being merely relative to the form of the words, would

not be fatal, especially if the new word were considered as tem

porary only, to be superseded by a better when the relations of the
phenomena are more clearly seen. But a more serious Objection
to terromagnetic seems to me to be, that diamagnetic bodies have

364 PROFESSOR FARADAY. 1850.

also a relation to the earth, as well as the other class; namely, a
tendency to place their length transverse to the lines of terrestrial

magnetic force. Hence it would appear, that the two classes of
magnetic bodies are those which place their length parallel or

according to the terrestrial magnetic lines, and those which place

their length transverse to such lines. Keeping the preposition
dia for the latter, the preposition para or aria might be used for
the former; perhaps para would be best, as the word parallel, in
which it is involved, would be a technical memory for it. Thus

we should have this distribution--

, Paramagnetic: Iron, Nickel, Cobalt, &c.
Magnet1c                Bi.smuth, Phosphor, &c.
          .     .
          {Diamagnetim

If you like anamagnetic better than paramagnetic, as meaning
Imagnetic accorcling to our standard, terrestrial magnetism,
Ino objection.                                                see

                had at one time thought of orthomag'netic and

diamagnetic, directly magnetic and diametrically magnetic, but

here the symmetry is not so complete as with two prepositions.

   IIn considering whether quite understand the present state of
Ithe subject, have asked myself what would be the effect of a

planet made up of bits of bismuth, phosphor, &c., of which the

general mass had their lengths parallel to a certain axis of the
Iplanet.
          suppose all paramagnetic bodies would arrange them

Selves transverse to its meridians, and all diamagnetic bodies in

Iits meridians. Am right?
   I rejoice to hear that you have new views of discovery opening

Ito you. always rejoice to hail the light of such, when they dawn

Iupon you.
        have been at the meeting of Swiss Naturalists at Aarau

Iwhere met Sch'onbein, who talked much of you, and told me you

were going to explain his views of ozone.

   I shall be in London in- a few days, and shall perhaps try to see
Iyou when am there. Letters sent to Cambridge always find me.

Believe me, my dear Sir,

                        Yours most truly, \V. \VHEWELL.

                   PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.                  365

                                  Turn. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, 1850.

                         [To Professor FARADAY.]
MY DEAR SIR,

      IYour discovery is a door into a very wide chamber, though,

to my eye, not fully open; but shall rejoice to see you turn it
Iwell round on its hinges, as know you will.
IAs to a name for the antithetical classes of bodies, consider
Ithus.
        suppose you called one class dimagnetic from analogy
Iwith dielectric.
                   think you ought to have said diamagnetic ; for

the bodies through (d'ia) which electricity goes would have been
Icalled diaelectric, but that vowels in such cases coalesce.
                                                              think

you may keep diamagnett'c for this class, and give to the opposite

Iclass a name implying that they rank along with magnetic bodies.

  propose paramagnetic. Will it not do to talk of iron, nickel,

&c., as paramagnetic, and glass, phosphorus, &c., as diamagnetic?

Then this new branch of science, for so, of course, it will soon
                                  I do not see any inconvenience
become, will be Paramagnetism.

in any of the obvious relations of the word. But it is difficult to

judge of this without knowing the relations of the facts better

I Ithan do, and, if you find that the words have suggested will
I Inot work well, (for that is the main thing), will try if can suggest

better.

   I give you joy at having such good reason to work hard-I

hope you will not work too hard.

                   Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                  TRIN. LODGE, Aug. 24, 1850.

MY DEAR FORBES,

I suppose by this time the bustle of your Edinburgh
Imeeting must have pretty well subsided.
                                                  have not seen any

detailed account of the proceedings, but from such hints as
I Igathered,
              should suppose that it was carried on in an ani
Imated and interesting manner. When you have leisure, shall
Ibe glad to have a word or two on the subject from you. directed

certain papers to be sent to the meeting for distribution. Perhaps

366 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.

Iyou can tell me whether this was done. ' came upon your track

I Iin Switzerland. Studer at Berne told me you had been there,
and Von Buch,'whom met at Aarau, had seen you.                            went to

the meeting of Swiss naturalists at Aarau, which was not well

attended, the Genevese people not making their appearance.

I IHugi the glacierist was there, but said nothing of glaciers, nor,
think, did any of them.                            am surprized that the Swiss, with

Itheir opportunities, do not follow out the subject more vigorously,
now that the road has been pointed out.                                   went to Grindelwald,

and travelled some leagues upwards by the side of the lower

glacier, so as to get to what they call the mer de glace, where the

Iice is less irregularly broken; but wanted you to point out

some of the leading features of the case. The ribboned structure
Iof the ice was not so conspicuous as expected to find it. Still
I was very glad to see glaciers once more with the new eyes
Iwhich you have given us for them.
                                                                          found at Aarau a Prof.

Mousson of Zurich, who gave a remarkably clear exposition of

Iwhat he called the Whewellische lines`, which observed a long

time ago, and which are shewn when you look at a dusty mirror
from a distance, holding a candle near your head. He described

Itheir main peculiarities, but did not attempt to deduce them
from the theory.    dare say George Stokes will be able to do
Ithis for us.
               hope that your sister enjoyed your tour, and that

you found Mrs Forbes and her child well on your return.

Mrs Whewell a       hope, improved by Kreuznach. We are going

              is,I
to set off on journey to the north, but your letters here will be

forwarded.

                                                   Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                   THIN. LODGE, Sep. 26, 1850.

MY DEAR FORBES,

              was very glad to have your account of the Edinburgh
meeting, and quite as much so to receive your notice of your own
travels. We are returned from our tour among the English
I
                                                   See Vol. I. page 318.
                                                1

                 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1850.             367

lakes, where we have been visiting a nest of brothers and sisters,

I Iwho, as you know, have almost divided the lake country among

them. While was at Coniston, made an expedition to the top

of Sea Fell Pikes, our highest mountain, and by much the most

Irugged and harsh which have seen. It was new to me, though

it is an ordinary point for mountain climbers, and was occupied

by the Ordnance Surveyors for some weeks. The remains of

their habitations are still there, and are very much like a High
Iland village with the roofs taken off.
                                         returned by that which
Iis, believe, the oldest pass way across this knot of mountains, the

pass of Hardknot and Wrynose, as it is commonly called: but

Airy holds that it is rightly Raynose. Of course these mountains

and passes are small matters compared with our Swiss friends, yet

still they have their own interest and beauty, and even their own
difficulty, especially if you take a wrong road, as we did. But

I Imust ask you a question before expend all my paper. It

appears that a book has been published, entitled The Theory of
human progression, and natural probability of a reign of justice,
which, though anonymous, is known to be the work of a Mr Dowe

Of your good town. Do you know anything of the man, or of the
Ibook?
        ask for the information of Victor Cousin, to whom

the book is dedicated, and who desires to learn something of
his admirer. He says the book is good but rather radical.

IPerhaps you can tell me something, though the book and the
man are a good deal out of your usual way.  have received the
IEdinburgh Royal Society Transactions, which, see, contains a

paper by you on the Vivarais, which must have been the result of

a good deal of hard work. You must be glad to have finished
Iwhat has been so long on hand.
                                 see too a paper by Piazzi
ISmith on Comets, which appears to me novel, but, so far as yet

see, plausible.

The vision which you summon up of a visit to Scotland is a
Ipleasant one, but hard to embody in space and time.
                                                      am glad

to hear that you are going to experiment on Heat.

                 Always most truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

368 AROHDEAOON HARE. 1851.

                             TRru. LoncE, Sept. 30, 1851.

MY DEAR HARE,

I am very glad to hear from Mrs Hare that you are

Imuch better than you were in London, and able to take your
usual work.  should like to see your charge on the present

aspect of church affairs; but you are so far in arrears in the

process of discharging these charges in a printed form, that
I Ifear must wait long for this.
   I IYou will think am very idle if    try to call back your
Ithoughts to etymologies, but do not want you to do much,

nor indeed to try much myself. You will still recollect with

pleasure our old Etymological Society of (I think) 1832, though

so many of the members have been called away from this world
Iof words to the realities beyond the .grave.
                                               want to send a

few memoranda respecting that society to the existing Philo
Ilogical Society of London.
                             have all the papers belonging to

our old Society, and some Of them may throw some light on
similar labours which others are pursuing. You were always the

Igreat workman with us, and have got some of your papers,
Iand especially a printed paper on Words corrupted by false

analogy or false derivation; and want you to tell me if this
paper was ever finished and ever published. A part of it was
published in vol. 1 of the Philological Museum of that day, with

Ithe title On English Orthography, but a part only; and my
copy ends in the middle of a sentence.  should think that the

Philological Society would be glad of the unpublished part of

it; for it is very much in the line of some of their work, and is

indeed a very interesting contribution to the history Of the

Ilanguage. There is also a paper 011 Words derived from Names

of Persons, in like manner, so far as can discern, unfinished and
unpublished. This, too, it would be a pity to have lost, for, though
ILodge and
             began the subject in a superficial manner, you

bestowed some good labour upon it.

   I have been looking through the box which contains the

ancient treasures of our society, which has brought these things

to my mind; but indeed they are as pleasant matters Of specu

                   REV. R. JONES. 1851.                                    369

lation as one can easily find, for there is Small satisfaction in the

aspect  of public  affairs,  or the conduct  of men in    great  offices.
                          a          sa                s            '

                                 Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

    [I  extract a  few sentences from Mr Hare's reply, dated     Oct. 22,
                   have sometimes had thoughts of sending        our two
1851.     "I too

papers to the Philological Society, but have refrained from doing

Iso because could not find any means of finishing them. To do

so on the scale of the earlier part would be impracticable, without

the help of public libraries; nor would my eyes now be patient

Iof such researches: but now and then indulge'a hope that, if
I Ican ever clear off my score of promised books, may work up
Ithe materials, which have, in the form of references, to wind

Iup our two papers, so that the labour spent on them may not

be utterly wasted, and that may publish a little volume of

IEtymological and Philological Essays. This, however, is so very

problematical, that would not in any way repress any wish of

yours to send any portion of the printed part, which has never

Ibeen published in any way, to the Philological Society; only
   do not see the slightest prospect of being able to help you in

completing either paper for the next year or two." The two

unfinished papers were published in 1873 under the title of

Fragments of two Essays in English Philology, with an Advertise
ment by Professor John E. B. Mayon]

                                                T. L., on. 20, 1851.

   MY DEAR JoNEs,

       I am afraid that the hope from St Paul's is extinguished;

I see in the newspaper that a Mr Champneys is appointed.
I have no doubt, however, that the applications made from so

many quarters to Lord John must produce an efl'ect upon him

Iwhich will shew itself in the long run; or, as would willingly
Ihope, in the short run. Certainly, Would rather hear of your

having a pension than a stall, on account of your health, among

Iother things, which would not, think, well suit attendance on

w. II.                       .p              _                   2t

370 REV. R. JONEs. 1851.

daily service in a cathedral. We see in Peacock's case how trying

I Ito the health such a discipline is.           had not seen be
         have been reading your lectures, which

fore, and am very glad to have them. They are very good in

themselves, but of course are better still as the ground work of
Iyour oral exposition.
                        hope you will now have health and time

to weave them, and your other speculations on the like subjects,

into a connected scheme. Such a scientific exposition of the sub

ject may be of use when men become sane on such subjects;

which, at present, they do not appear to me to be. It seems to

be an absurd and humiliating result of so many years spent by

Englishmen in the speculations of political economy, that the

governing body should carry on the business of the nation on the
basis of fallacies so very palpable as those of " Free Trade," and

should persist in their course in spite of that diminished national

production which, according to the arguments both of advocates

and opponents of the policy, must be, as it the result.
I
        I

             I
                        I

                                  I
                                                                        is,

                                                II
want to give Mrs Jones (not you) a little trouble for a

minute or two.      saw, in the waste-paper basket in your study,

several letters of mine, a few of which picked out; and find

that they contain some memoranda of my former employments,

especially at the time when was writing my History and Philoso

phy, which should be glad to have. Pray let her pick me out

any that readily ofi'er themselves, and send them to me.                   hope

you are none the worse for trying to lecture, and that your porter

prospers with you.

                        Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

     [In justice to Mr Jones, his reply to the preceding letter must
be given]

                        HAILEYBUBY, Thursday, [Oct 1851.]

MY DEAR WHEWELL,

scrawl a few lines at once to tell you you made great
I
                                                                           have
                                                    Ia
mistake about the contents of the baskets in my study.

been clearing out my receptacles for letters, &c., which were full.

                   REV. R. JONES. 1852.                    371

I IIt was a wOrk could do when could do little else. Into one
Ibasket what meant to destroy were torn and put away for the
Ifire. Into another the papers were thrown which meant to pre--

serve. This last basket will be sorted, and some of them tied up
Itogether and put in a safe deposit.
Ithrough the work.                          have not any thing like got

                         should rather have liked to have kept
Iyour letters while lived. Still, it is but reasonable you should

have them, if you wish   and when have collected them will
                         it it,                     I
                                                      I
                              ;
                                                               al
                                    I
send them, you desire    but pray dismiss from your mind any
           if

idea of your letters being treated as waste paper.

Mrs Jones had nothing to do with the grand operation,

                         it,

                              I
though much approving    and shall (D. V.) finish, as began,

the labour myself. Pray tell Mrs Whewell so.

12 o'clock--I have just come home from lecturing for an

hour--very tired.        think very ill of my future, but will not
                   I                                I                     I

                             I
plague my friends more than can help about it.

                                            Curr COTTAGE, Jan. 20, 1852.

MY DEAR JONES, .

       As have now, fear, no chance of seeing you for some
I
    I

                   it
                    if

                  I
                                   II
time, want to hear something of you.        suppose the overturn

of the Derby coach has not yet produced any change in your for

tunes, whatever    may .do hereafter.       do not see how the

Derbyites can rally the present ministry behave with moderate

prudence, and abstain from snubbing the Church and frightening

the agricultural people; which operations, though very consistent

with their past practice, are not necessary evidences of their con
Ifsistency.
             people have any good hopes given them on these

subjects, Should think they would be glad to help to make theIIis I

ministry strong, to prevent them being bullied by the Irisll

Brigade. But then fear they are engaged to some heavy blow
at the Irish Church.
                         is

                                         _
However there no use in my speculating about such matters

here.  want to know who to be your new Law Professor at

Haileybury. .You will not easily get one who suits you so well as

poor Empson did.   I     have been looking at his articles in the

                                                    24--2

372 MR H. HOLLAND. 1852.

Encyclopaedia, and am glad to find there is so much of them.

I find however that he goes a long way in his admiration of
IBentham. want much to get from some of my lawyer friends
Iinformation where shall find any lawyer's classification of of

Ifences to compare with Bentham's. That appears to me very hard,

as have tried to shew in my lectures: but where is anything

better to be found?

   Are you doing anything with your lectures, or are you quite
Ibusy preparing artillery to batter the cathedrals?
                                                         hope

Mrs Jones is well. Mrs Whewell brought here a bad cold,- but

I am glad to say the sea breezes have swept it away. Our kind

regards to Mrs Jones.           ,

                              Always yours, W. WHEWELL.

     [When application was made to Sir Henry Holland for the
loan of letters written by Dr Whewell, he expressed his regret

that he had not preserved them. Subsequently he found one,

and sent  it it,  saying that he should be glad of its admission into

Dr Whewell's biography, "as illustrative of his high and ever

active philosophic spirit."]

                              Tam. Loncx, CAMBRIDGE, Ap. 13, 1852.

MY DEAR DR HOLLAND,

              have been reading with great interest the "Chapters onII
Mental Physiology " which your friendship sent me. should like
                     a

                           it

                                                p.

                                         I

                                           I
                                                 I
to discuss some points of with you, or rather, to learn from you

in conversation more on points on which learn much from your

book.           was not aware of Amoretti's experiments with the

divining rod which you mention  24; but myself have seen.

many such experiments, and made the same remarks on the

mechanism of them which you make. About five and twenty

years ago Airy spent summer in France, and became acquainted

with a Frenchman who had written a book1 on this subject, and

had put into a scientific form. According to him, the move

1J. The title of the book Recherches sur quelqaes Efliiwes Terrestres par le comicis

    de Triatan...Bachelier, 1826. Sir G. B. Airy did not become acquainted with the
author and Dr Whewell does not write about the book with strict verbal accuracy.
       ;

                                    MR COCHRANE. 1852.                                                                                                  373

ment of the rod Was not determined by the proximity of water,

metals, or the like; but by certain "bandes bacillogyratoires"

Iwhich exist with intervals on the earth. Airy and made many

experiments, and there was certainly often a motion which we
I Idid not consciously favour.
Iand, if can find                   believe have the book somewhere,

                                    will tell you more about it. Your remarks
      it

           is

                  it,I

                                                             is

                                        I
on Mesmerism and Electrobiology touch,                           am persuaded, the

real secret of the matter; but there so much of imposture and

bad faith mixed up with the greater part of these exhibitions,

that  almost disgusting to analyse them so as to see what

remainder of other elements there is. Your remarks on Time

appear to me very valuable. They seem to me to point to a

doctrine which have always maintained, that the mind active      I is
as well as passive at every moment of existence; and that Time
is
          is

             I
a Law of this activity--a Form, the Kantians say, and the

word has some advantages. Your remark about the patterns,

p. 63, another exemplification Of the mind's necessary activity

and perception, and in that case of a power of using this activity

so as to obtain varied results.     read too with great interest what
                                    :I
                                            is I
you say about Sleep; and am ready to assent to your doctrine of
its being a succession of states. Still think that the whole of

this succession separated by a definite line from waking. There
   such thing as falling asleep what the physiological fact in

this case
I is
                  a
                            ?
                             is is
But there                           no use in asking you such questions on paper.

am but too glad that you spare some time from your patients to

give to philosophers, and delighted with the result. Perhaps may
come to London tO-morrow and meet you at the Club.

                                    Yours always very truly, W. WHEWELL.

     [The next two letters were addressed to Mr Cochrane                                                                                                see
Vol. page 294.]
      1.I
                                                                                                                                '

                                                                                              a 9,

                                                                                                                                                     ;
                                    Ksnuzssca, Sept.             1852.

SIR,

              take the liberty of introducing myself to you as person,
like yourself, interested in the success of English hexameters, and

374 MR COCHRANE. 1852.

Ialso as an admirer of your translation of Louisa so far as have

I
              4
                 it,
                                   is
                                 I
                                                                                                                                  of
yet seen which only to the extent to which the Athenwum

Sept. has enabled me to do so.           am also especially desirous

that you should be aware of a very general dissatisfaction, which,

am sure, exists with reference to the partial and perverse mode

in which that journal and other critics of 'the same chool treat

the subject of English Hexameters. It appears by what the

Athenwum critic says, that you have referred to the vow populi as

being the obstacle to the general acceptance of this measure. But

the fact that the common unperverted ear well satisfied with
       is

                      it

                                   is
                                                                        is

                                                                                                                    of
the English Hexameter when well constructed: and the persons

who are opposed to are those who have had their habits formed

by classical studies. It not the vow populi, but the vow gram

matici, which cries down such attempts. They cannot get rid

the habit of scanning by classical rules, and supposing that

spondees are needed; the fact being that classical rules of scan

sion have no application, for the simple reason that the ear does

not recognize them. For instance, in the passage the critic

quotes, " And so thinly attired": the syllable                                     not different
           it

                                                                               is
from what would have been if written "atired." And spondees,

feet of two equal syllables, are inadmissible in all verse which

proceeds by accent, the only kind of verse which our ears can

accept as verse. For accented verse must proceed by alternation

of stress. Those who have written English hexameters have

mostly spoilt their verses by not being aware of this. It easy
                                                                                   it, is
to get spondees, but they are much to be avoided in general

       is
                  is,
The fact though these critics do not or will not see that

there      no difference whatever in principle between English

hexameters and English anapaests or any other verse. And all

the objections of such critics to hexameters on the ground                                 of of

many monosyllables, and the like, apply just as much to the

most common kinds of verse.     have transformed some lines
                             I

                                                  is
Beattie's into hexameters to show this:

0ft at the close of the day when the hamlet           still in the twilight,
And when mortals the sweets of forgetfulness
                                                    prove in their dwellings,
                &c. &c.
                                                                                    -
It easy to go on.
       is

              MR COCHRANE. 1852.                                375

   I Imay add that have myself been a labourer in the same
Ifield with you. published, a short time ago, in Fraser's Magazine

a translation of the first book of the Luise; and, some time

before, a translation of the Herman and Dorothea, in which, how

Iever, was not sufficiently on my guard against the spondees. In

the same volume, English Hewameters, are some much better

specimens of the verse by others.
I shall, in a week or two, be in England, where my address is
ITrinity College, Cambridge: and look forward to having the
Ipleasure of reading the whole of your translations.
                                                      am, Sir,

Your faithful and obedient Servant, W. WHEWELL.

              Curr Corner, Lownsror'r, Jan. 7, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am much obliged by your letter and your corrections of
Ithe commencing lines of my Luise.
                                    agree with you in general,

that many of our hexameters suffer from having too weak dis

Isyllable feet: but would not go to the length of making peremp

tor.y,rules against such feet. English dactylic hexameters, like

ordinary English anapaestic verses, must be allowed such licence

as suits the poet's ear. Such rules as you propose would make

them smoother, but the violation of such rules does not make

Ithem cease to be verse, nor necessarily to be good verse. Your

rule that the last foot shall be a trochee also assent to, as a

rule of prudence, to avoid giving offence to English ears. For

Imy own part, really prefer an occasional solid spondee in the

last place, to keep up the old Odyssean strain. But this is a

Ifancy which should only indulge when hexameters have ob

tained a fair hearing in England, which as yet they have not.

I hope your translations will do much towards this: but an

original poem like Evangeline does much more. With regard

to my fellow labourers in the English Hexameter Translations,

I suppose, like myself, they only give a few occasional minutes

to such performances, and would by no means undertake such a

Itask as the translation of the Messias: add to which, that do
Inot admire the poem sufficiently to translate it; and it has, think,

376 MR COCHRANE. 1 852.

already had. its climax of fortune in England, in a prose transla--

tion. There is a little poem lately published in Germany, called
Hannchen and die Kuchlein, which is very pretty, quite as pretty
Ias Luise, and which might be worth translating.
                                                  have it, but
               I Ishould not, think, undertake it; for the
at Cambridge.

apathy shewn towards the English H ewameter Translations, and

the absurd injustice of our ,grammarian critics have somewhat
Idisgusted me with the public to which should have to appeal.
I shall, however, write a few pages more for the North British
IReview to convince, or at least, to confute them.
                                                    am much

I Iobliged by your offer of helping me with materials for this task.
   think cannot go into details, such as would introduce the
passages from G'dthe and Coleridge to which you refer: but

I should be glad to have the references at your leisure. Klopstock's
IPreface have always omitted to look at, and should be glad to
I Isee it. When return to Cambridge, shall probably find it in

the University Library, but, if you can send it here without in

convenience, it will be very welcome. Why should not you, who
have read, it would seem, all that has been written about hex_

aineters, discuss the subject in some publication at greater length
than you have done? Gethe's opinions on all subjects attract
great notice in England, as well as in Germany, and would do
something towards stemming the prejudices, and informing the
minds, of our countrymen. By the way, one of the lines of your

corrected version of the opening of my Luise wants a foot, as

I read it:

Picked from the hind which Chanticleer gay with his wife-train.

I think anything which I, may write for the North British

Review will probably take an historical character, rather than

that of an estimate of the merits of the poems noticed, so that
I shall perhaps need the indulgence which you promise me, in
I Icase should not make any one writer very prominent.
                                                                 am,

my dear Sir,

               Your very faithful servant, W. WHEWELL.

            CHEVALIER BUNSEN. 1853.                      377

                       Timur! Lonon, CAMBRIDGE, Jan. 23, 1853.

MY DEAR CHEVALIER BUNSEN,

         Will you have the kindness to give me the name of the

Iwork in which the hexameters and pentameters which trans

latedl were to be inserted, and tell me whether it is yet published?
If Iit is-not, perhaps might revise and improve the translation.
I Iforgot to request that might see it in proof while it was passing
Ithrough the press, which should have wished to do.
   I have read through your Hippolytus with the greatest
Iinterest.  hope it will do my countrymen some good. It is
I Ialready in many hands here, and hope will soon be in more.

have proposed a subject for the Hulsean Essay, which will neces

sarily turn the attention of the candidates upon the bookz--The

history and position of Christian Bishops, and especially of the
Bishop of Rome, during the first three centuries. In general,

our Hulsean Essayists shew an amount of learning which you

would hardly expect, considering that they must be young men
Iunderthe degree of M.A.
                          believe Mrs Whewell will be ordered
Ito Kreuznach again this summer.
                                   do not know whether you are

acquainted with the place. There is there, in ruins, a very pretty

chancel of the Paalas Kirche, which belongs to the Evangelische

IGemeinde. It is almost the only specimen of Gothic architecture
in the neighbourhood.  suppose all the rest perished during the
IMordbrenner Krieg.
                       have sometimes thought of trying to get

it restored, and appropriated to the service of the English residents

there. Do you think that your Government would look with

favour upon such a project, and that your law would afford facili

ties for carrying it into effect?

     Vile are just returned from Suffolk, where we have been spend

ing our holidays, and are now here till Easter. Mrs Whewell

Iunites with me in kind regards to Madame Bunsen, and am

always                    Yours most truly, W. WHEwELI.

                       _` See Vol. I. page 294.

378 MR COCHRANE. 1853.

                                                           TRIN. LODGE, CAiuimrDeE, April 24, 1853.

DEAR SIR, [Mr COOHRANE.]

        I am glad you are translating Hannchen. My copy has
Itwo us in the first syllable, and never doubted that it was the
Idiminutiveof Hannah.
                                                           should be disposed to make that name

the title of the poem, for more than one reason. In the first place,

Hannah is a good English name, common, yet not common-place;
and, what is a great recommendation to me, it is a scriptural name.

My notion of the style suitable to the hexameter epic is that no

Iwords or phrases should be admitted which would be out of place
in our translation of the scriptures.                         tried to bring the diction

of Herman tO this standard. All attempts to give a modern

poetical tone to the poem by taking such a name as Jessie appear

to me to give a falsetto character to a style which ought to be

simple and self-justified. The Odyssee should be our model.
IThen, would not take Hannchen, because the word to English eye
Iand ear is harsh, and the diminutive has no grace for us.
                                                                                                     do

not know any English diminutive for Hannah. Annie                                      believe,
                         it

                             is

                              it I
                                      I

                                               II
                                                      it I is,I
a Scotch diminutive for Ann; but, as have said, do not think

that the right key. And so you have my thoughts about your

title.

You are very welcome to make any use you choose of the

translation of the Luise which published in Fraser.                                    have a.
                                                                                       out, for
little more in MS., but                                    hardly worth while looking

the value of any hints which could give you.                           am glad to hear

they are going to publish Louisa in America. Longfellow wrote

me word that they had published more than one edition of my

Herman and Dorothea, without having the grace to say whose it

was. But even that was better treatment than they gave me with

regard to another book of mine, Elements                         I of  Morality, for they

stereotyped the first edition, and would not take the improve:
                                                                     hope they will use
ments which introduced in the second.
I
                                                              -
           it

         I

                                                        _
you better.

        received the volume you were so kind as to send me, and

shall read with great interest; but have had to go into Ger
                                                           I

                     SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                                  379

many since it arrived, which has taken up my time.  I beg you to
accept my thanks for and to believe me
                     of it,
                          Yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.
                            7
           have stated on page 205 of Volume that the sheets of the
  Essay on the Pluralitg Worlds were read by Sir James Stephen,
  as they passed through the press. Dr Whewell's share in the
  correspondence will now be given in a series of letters extending

  over the period from Sep. to Nov. 14*, 1853].
    is I [I                                I.

                                                                           7,
                                           Lowxs'rorr, Sept. 1853.

    MY DEAR Sin JAMES,

             am much obliged by your remarks upon the sheet which

II  sent you. That the defect of construction in the Title struck
  you, quite reason enough for reconsidering it. As to any more

  extended estimate of the book than have given in my Preface,
                               it

                                    I
    intended to make such an estimate the subject of one or more

  of my Lectures, and, when       has been delivered in that form,

                     it,
probably to publish with other matter. As for a biographical

  picture of Grotius such as you would wish for, and many others,
                                                I I,
  would feel the same wish: but have always felt also, that theI
                          a

                            I
  best manner in which such wish could be gratified would be by

  a biographical sketch from your pen, such as the admirable ones

  which we already possess of other great men.  will not willingly

  give up the wish in this form.

    I  am much obliged by the interest you take in my cosmology,

  and by the confidential manner in which you have received my

  communication of my intention--a degree of reserve which fully

  appreciate.   do not know whether you would be willing to look at
               II I
  any of my proof sheets, with view of exercising your kindness

      warning me when Ihave said anything likely to give offence
  by                              a
                                       is
  to common readers. The public so ready to take offence at anyI

  speculations on religion which are at all out of the common track,

  that might have occasion for such warnings, without being

  aware of it.       have some speculations of the nature of those of

Pascal, though have not referred to him in them.  I  am not sure,

380 SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.

Ihowever, that derive so much satisfaction as you seem to have

done from the new edition of Pascal. By giving us what the
author himself had rejected, the impression of the work appears
to me to be confused. Poets and philosophers may win praise

by our knowing "what they discreetly blot," but I do not think

Ithey gain in effect.
        am greatly grateful for your kind sympathy in our sorrows.
They are not single, for James Marshall has just lost a child.

Well for us if we can find in our philosophy anything which can

elevate and moralize our natural sorrows.

                            Believe me, my dear Sir James,

                                             Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                  Lownsrorr, Sept. 13th, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

       I have directed the first sheet of my Pluralitg of Worlds
Ito be sent to you. It is not that expect there is in it anything
Ito interest you, but wish you to possess my argument from the
Ibeginning. In my first three or four Chapters must be employed

I Iin unrolling the argument from Chalmers's point of view; after
wards go beyond him. In the first Chapters    have dealt with

the astronomical cosmologists as my friend Grotius does with

I Ibelligerents, and have granted them, or seemed to grant, many
things which must afterwards take away.       shall be glad of

any remarks of yours on any part Of my Essay; but of course you
will not hesitate to send me the sheet without any remark, if
Inothing especial occurs to you.
                                  do not wish to occupy your

Itime with writing on or about every sheet ; but in a later period
of the work passages may occur, on which, as  said, friendly

monitions, by a person of religious and philosophical views, may

Ibe very valuable to me.
         shall look with great interest for the railway book which

Iyou promise us, and which is sufficiently needed as to its subject.
   read Spedding's notes on Campbell's life of Bacon with the

Ifeelings which always have when that subj ect is under discussion

Findignation at the popular misrepresentations of Bacon's cha

              SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 18 5 3.                                                                    38 1

racter, and the levity with which each succeeding writer aggra
vates them; and grief at the difficulty of setting such popular
misconceptions, or any popular misconceptions, right. Perhaps

Imy disturbance on this subject is enhanced by feeling that have

(on my hands a work of the same kind.
                ` Believe me, my dear Sir James,

                                         Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                Lownsrorr, Sept. 25th, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

          Your remarks continue to be of the highest interest and

Ivalue to me. Some of them you will, hope, find provided for

in the future parts of the work. As to a summary of the
Iargument, perhaps may attempt something of the kind in the
I IPreface, when come to that.
                                hoped that the titles of my

Chapters would in some degree point out the course of my

argument. You may observe that the title of the Chapter on
                                " Fuller statement of the
which you have last remarked
I
        a
        I
          II I
                     I
                             I;
                                I
                                                                 is,
                                       I
                                                                                 it
                                                                                                        is
Difliculty."  do not suppose that any arguments there have

nullified the Jovians; but only that they have shewn that they

are assumptions attended with such difficulties, that                                                       worth

while examining whether they are assumptions supported by

strong analogy. This shall do in the next six Chapters, on

physical grounds, drawn in a great measure from recent scientific

discoveries.  am afraid six physical Chapters will weary you,

though believe to many persons they will appear the most

substantial part of the book at any rate, such arguments ought

to be weighed. After those Chapters  have got as much

metaphysics, at least, as our generation in this country will well

bear. But abstain, as much as can, from employing arguments

from Scripture. The doctrine of Good and Bad' Angels belongs

to part of Religion which fear to mix with Astronomy; and

    hope to give you good reaSOns why such beings cannot have
their habitations in suns and planets, or, at least, not in planets.

     My last sheet must have offended your taste by many faults
of style, arising (some at least) from the errors of the press; but

382 SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.I                 is
                   ','                                         a
I wanted to gain time by having it sent directly to you. In the
            II                                                         is
last page (i8), which connects with the sheet which probably hasa

since reached you, you must, if you please, in the 10th line read                              is
" firmly for " piously," and in the 17th line, " events " for
"wants." Also the end of paragraph 14.1 to be altered. AndI

the paragraph at the end of this chapter in page 61 to be

recast.

        think am indebted to you for sending me Shrewsbury
paper containing very agreeable and instructive lecture delivered
by you. Am mistaken in conjecturing that this was the little
book which you described yourself as being employed upon a few

days ago, and as probably destined for railway readers? It

well suited to make their journey pleasant and profitable.

                                 am, my dear Sir James,

                                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                           LowEsror'r, Sept. 25th, 1853.

      MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

      Your divination of the argument which intend to found
                                                 I is I
upon my exposition of geological doctrine,          not very far from

the fact; though perhaps flatter myself that shall bring the
      a
    argument more to point, and add to some important elements.
         II                            it

it Imight be mortified at finding that what expound so much at
                                              I

    length may be expressed so much more briefly; but am rather
                                                         I

    pleased to find how obvious the argument        for obvious as is,
                                              is                                           it

                                                 ;

      has never, so far as am aware, been put forward with any

adequate distinctness and force. As to the unsatisfactory im

pression produced by the spectacle of a universe void of intelligent

    life, that of course one of the difficulties of maintaining such a.
      is

        I
                                           `I

                                        I
                                                                                       is
thesis as mine. For myself,            can say that the result of my

speculations has been reverence, not diminished but increased,

for the greatness of the Creative plan; and that this a result

    Of my views, hope to make apparent in the course of my book.

    There are many things to be said, to remove the dissatisfaction

    which the view may at first excite, which have tried to say

    there: as, that we are not to determine arbitrarily in what way

       SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                    383

the Creator's attributes shall be manifested--that the plan of the

whole pre-existed in the Creative mind--`and the like. And there

Iis one thought tending the same way, which have not put in the

book, that all those who do not hold the world to be eternal a

parte ante (as the old theologians said) must hold that there was

a time when there were no inhabitants of this creation to adore
Ithe Creator. But hope to learn your impression Of this part Of
Ithe subject when you have read more.
                                       took the liberty of

directing the printer to send you a revised proof of pages 35...4:1,

Ithat you may see that your advice has not been quite thrown
away.  have tamed down the tone of eager assertion Of one side

of the alternative to a more balanced exposition of the difficulty.

IThe argument comes, as have said, in the succeeding Chapters.

       Believe me, my dear Sir James,

                    Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                                  Tam. LODGE, Oct. 1, 1853.

   MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

      I write a single line to say that, if you should have any
Iremarks to bestow upon me respecting any sheets of my Pluralitg,

from this time shall be obliged to you to send them to this
place, not to Lowestoft. Probably you have not with you the first
volume of my edition of Grotius which you had from me. When

Iyou conveniently can send it to me here, should be obliged if
I Iyou would do so. had marked in it some errata which would

use.

                         Believe me yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                    Tam. LonsE,~CAMmauE, Oct. 7, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

       It would be an ungrateful return for your valuable remarks

Ion my proof sheets to attempt to involve you in an epistolary

controversy, and have no intention Of doing so. But in order to

Iaccount for my not despairing of the effect of my geological argu

ment after what you have said of your views, should like to

384 sm JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.

I Imake some brief remarks to show that think can see reason

Ifor still hoping that it will have weight with some persons.
     1. allow all the difficulty of a beginning of creative activity

Iafter a period of inactivity and blank: but did not invent the

doctrine. It is the one commonly current; therefore the one to be
Iused in reasoning ad populam, which am doing.
                                                       _

2. The opposite doctrine of the past eternity of the world

leads to equal difficulties.

     3. These difficulties affect space in the same way as time.

It is as difficult to conceive a space where the creative agency does

not work, as a time when it does not.

. 4. Hence my argument, which is founded upon the relation
or analogy of space and time, still has force.

5. The eternity of the human world, as a fact,         iIs,

                                                                                     a.
                                                          conceive,

disproved by geology, which shews that had a beginning and
6.

 I
                I

                                                   it
recent beginning.

      am aware that there are arguments derived from Scrip

ture, to prove that the doctrines of geology, as to praehuman series

of animals, are false.  will not meddle with these controversies,

but take the received doctrines of geology as true. This have
                                                          I

very distinctly said in the book.
          If, to fill up the infinite past time implied in the eternity
I 7.
of the world, you suppose cycles of praehuman rational beings,

what have to say that proceed upon physical evidence; and
that in this can find no fact pointing that way, and many point
       I             is

ing the opposite way.  it

       If therefore       I
                                I
                        be proposed to place the assumption
8.                                                     I

                                                                        it of
inhabited planets and systems on the same footing as such prae

human cycles of rational beings, have no objection.       think

will be placing them exactly on the right footing.

But will not say a word more on this part of the subject,
    I

and so farewell to my geological argument; and then come my

astronomical proofs, which hope you will think more persuasive.
                              I
                                          I
You will have had a sheet of them by this time.        I  have to

observe in the way of explanation, that shall have a frontispiece

to my volume, on which will be represented two of the most

remarkable of the spiral nebulae.

          SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                           385

   I am much obliged by the proof sheets of the Grotius which

Iarrived by rail; but what especially want is not the second

volume which you have sent, but the first volume, which is bound
up in drab boards, and which probably you will find near the place

where the sheets came from.

Thanks many and deep for the thought you give to my specu-'

lations.  `

                             Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                             Tam. LODGE, CAmmrDoE, Oct. 8th, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

          You may very naturally and most reasonably expect that,

when you have kindly stated to me any difficulties which my

arguments against the popular multiplication of worlds and systems

raise in your mind, you have done with that part of the subject,

Iand are not to be asked to recall your thoughts to it again. And
  have no wish to trouble you with any repetition of the discus

Ision, which would be misplaced. When have had your first
Iimpression, have had that which is of great value to me. But
I Ifor my own satisfaction should like in some cases to say why
Ido not adopt your suggestions of further explanation. And will
Ido this the more unhesitatingly, because will state my reasons

very briefly, and you are not at all bound to read them. Why do

I not tell my readers'why Sirius or the stars of the Great Bear

may not as well be called dots, as those into which nebulae are
I Iresolved by Lord Rosse'!
                             have told them, so plainly, that
despair of making the reason plainer. It is because, in the

nebulae, we see that the dots are connected by shining streaks of

smaller dots, which shew that they are parts of a coherent mass,

of which the dots are comparatively small elements; a condition

which is quite different from the detached and insulated aspect of

the obvious stars: and again, because the Magellanic Clouds have

shewn Herschel and me following him, that nebulae and clustered

stars do not differ merely in distance, but are different kinds of

things, lying side by side in the same celestial space.

w. II.                                                   25

386 SIR JAMEs STEPHEN. 1853.

    IThe other remark which you make arises, think, from my

speaking *of the resolution of nebulae as astronomers use such

language; and not in any looser way, in which common speakers

may talk. The Zodiacal Light would not be resolved, in the

astronomical sense of the term, by spectators who should see one

dot, the Sun, in it; but only by those who should resolve the

whole light into dots, or stars; which even we, so close to cannota
                                                                       it,
do. According to the astronomers, we do not resolve the nebula
                                                                                      aa
by regarding as a sun seen through a cloud; but by supposing
              is it

                         is
the cloud to be made up of a number of suns, and to be really not
Ita cloud at all.
                             not that the fog envelopes  kernel of light,

but the fog made up of kernels of light; and that these kernels

are suns, with systems revolving round them and inhabitants in

the systems, and these inhabitants intellectual, appears to me

bold assumption.  I          am afraid even such explanations, involving

no sort of call for being noticed on your part, may make you think

your office of friendly reader of my speculations in their printed

form a troublesome one. But hope you will recollect what
                             it I
valuable friendly office hold to be.
              9,                    it,
                  p. Believe me, yours very truly, W. `WHEWEL'L.

    In sheet          if I
                  134, you read read Sun for Earth in line 22.

                                                         Oct. 9th, 1853.

    MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

    will only add a word to thank you for your note received
  I I iIf I I
;this morning. it I  am aware of the danger of taking too much the

tone of an advocate, but not the less obliged to you for warning

me of the danger. But when think my arguments very strong,
as did in the case referred to,is I        difficult for me not to speak
                                 it
    thought so. Audit                  is
as                               to be recollected that no one, so

far as know, has been the advocate of one world against many

worlds, mean in recent times.    I         am not bent upon emptying

the other planets of all life, as you will see, your patience`does
                                           if

not fail, which very naturally may.

                  Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                                          \`J

sm JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                                 387

                      Tam. Lonoa', Oct. 10, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

IHave the kindness to send to Lowestoft any remarks which
you may be kind enough to make about my Worlds.  am afraid

you ,will think 'my double stars very tiresome.

                      Yours most truly,          WHEWELL. ,

                      Lowns'ror'r, Oct. 13, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

          Your commendations rare even more acceptable than your

Icriticisms, and, hope, not quite unprofitable. They make me

Ifeel as if had already the best reward of an author's labours, the

favourable interest of an enlightened reader, and they afford a
strong reason for removing any blots which you notice. The one

Iwhich you remark in page 151 acknowledge to a certain extent.

The successive revelation of visual facts at different distances

would require us, if we were to speak rigorously, to modify our

Imode of asserting facts. But believe we must be content in

general to overlook this inaccuracy. It is only an inaccuraCy, not

an error; for since the regression of the past in time increases

gradually as the scene of the fact is removed from nearer to
more distant localities, the order of events is still the same as it

appears; and this order is what we reason upon. To translate

the assertion of facts into the language of successive visibility

Iwould, think, throw a puzzle in the reader's way which does not

really affect the argument. Did you see a little book called The

Stars and the Earth, which was circulated anonymously a few

years ago? That book shewed what startling conclusions follow
Ifrom this doctrine.
                      do not want'soto startle my readers: and
Ithe conclusions do not really
                      me. But will bear in mind

your remark, as well as others which you have made, and may

have an opportunity of explainingthe difficulties w`hich you notice
in subsequent parts of the book.

   IYou will think me obstinate about my dots, but am disposed

to defend the phraseology. ,I should not think of calling the

                                                 25--2

388 SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.

stars of the Great Bear, dots ; they are stars. By calling the ele

Iments of resolved nebulae dots, mean to imply that they have

Ino prima facie right to be reckoned stars, Suppose that in ex

amining some texture microscopically discover dots which others
I Ihold to be animals, but which do not.
                                          call them dots. But
I should not therefOre call a lion or an eagle a dot, or even an

oyster or a sponge. This seems to me a parallel case. With

regard to my expression of shewing all possible favour to the

Iproposed inhabitants of double star systems, meant that any
Itone of pleasantry, which the expression contains, should be felt
principally by Herschel, who made the proposed scheme.  am

Istruck by the expressions which you use on the supposition of the

Unity Of the World, as opposed to the Plurality of Worlds. hope

you will find that the expressions in the further parts of my

book harmonize with the sentiments which you express so well.

I return to Cambridge on Saturday.

Believe me, dear Sir James,

                    Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

     With regard to your promised illustrations of Grotius, you
probably know Martens's Causes ce'lébres du Droit des Gena.

                    Lownsrorr, Oct. 14th, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

          Your theorist would speak as many theorists have spoken,
and probably as many Of my readers will speak; but a good deal of

Iwhat he assumes is at variance with what we know, and think
I have shewn this in the pages which you have seen. His as

sumption, that in the solar system each member is necessary to
the sustentation of the rest, has not the smallest countenance

from astronomy; and that which is the basis of his whole theory

Iis the assumption that the stars are like the sun--may be classed

with him--an assumption, as conceive, clearly disproved in
many instances, and proved in 'none; and, at any rate, the as

Isumption against Which argue at some length.

     As to the argument from the long time required to bring us

               SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                          389

notices of the distant stars, that they may since that light was
Iemitted have become orderly worlds, place against
                                     is             as at least
                                                is it,
equally probable, the supposition that the distant stars were
sparks and fragments thrown off in the formation of the solarI

system, that they are really extinct thousands of years ago, anda

survive in appearance only in consequence of the light which they
then emitted. As to the possibility of inhabitants of Neptune or

the moon who have no bodies, or bodies which do not require

such conditions of light and heat as terrestrial creatures, have to

say that in that case do not see that they require a planet to
               I
live upon. They may live in the Zodiacal light, or in the tails ofI

comets, or in the blank spaces between the planetary orbits, justII

as well as on Mercury or Neptune. But my object to trace the

results of physical reasonings, to reason on the supposition that

the vital powers in other regions are governed by the same laws as

they are here. To make this supposition with regard to mechani

cal forces was Newton's great step.

iIf I Icannot persuade myself to lay down logical mles for my

readers. So far as have ever seen, to do so only to add new

class of subjects of dispute to those which the matter introduces.

If my readers are not persuaded by my arguments, put as clearly

as can put them, they will not be convinced by my proceeding

as knew the rules of reasoning better than they do. Excuse

my stubbornness; and do not punish me by discontinuing your

remarks.

                          am, my dear Sir James,

                          Yours truly, W. WHEWELL.

                          Tamr'rr LonoE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 16, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

I         cannot deny the interesting and solemn character 'of the

reflexions contained in your letter of yesterday; for they have

often pressed on my own'mind while have been pursuing my
                                     I
                                                        I

                                                                          it
speculations.  have no wish to deny their force, but may

mention very briefly some of the considerations which make

appear to~ me, that they do not really give any probability to that

390               sm JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.v

kind of plurality of worlds Which has a place" in` poPular belief or

Ipopular talk.
     1. grant entirely that the aspect of this human warld
                  I                                                                                                      to

                                                         if

                                                                                                                    is,
the eye of reason, most unsatisfactory, to the eye of faith, very

incomplete.       am willing to allow that we should have a more

consolatory spectacle for our thoughts,                    we were to imagine

another world of purer and better servants of God. But allowing

this, what single reason have we to connect this better world with

stars or planets? Why must we find for                     place at all in space?
                                     it
                                                it

                                                        a
Heaven in space? and that better world be really in space,
is Is
  it

                   to

                              if
     not most natural to suppose in the regions about the earth

below the Moon? Those regions may be occupied by glorious,

pure, but         us invisible creatures; and all the machinery                                                          of

planets and stars may be to them, as                 to astronomy, so much
                                     is
dirt, so many clods.
            The better world, which       it

                                                 is
of                                   to console us for the foulness

and misery of this, must, would seem, have some connexion with4:. 3. 2.
                  in_
this. The worlds
                        it
                              the Stars and planets can have,a it it  would

seem, no such connexion. They are not what we want.

        If there be other Worlds in which the subjects of the

universal Lord have not fallen, such belief exalts our opinion
    the goodness of God to- them; but what view does give
                                      a                                                                                  is a of
His goodness to man?
                                                 if
                  Science does, think, in the way of analogy, give us
                  is

                      I
glimpse which full of consolation. Geology,                her analogy

worth anything, tells us that the Creator can produce creature

as much superior to man in intellectual, moral, spiritual characters

as man superior to brutes.
                  is

                           I
There are in the succeeding parts of my book other lines                                                                 of

thought in which              hope my readers will find something to

elevate and cOnsole them, with reference to any trouble which

my reasonings may cause them. And the more think that
                                     it

                                         I
there must be such resource, since does not appear that before
the modern views of the universe were established Christian

thinkers felt any need of other regions of God's servants in otherit
realms of space to complete their view of Him, so far as could
be completed; except indeed you say that Heaven, Hell, and

    SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                            391

Purgatory are in space ; and of them Astronomy tells us nothing.

IDante is much more trustworthy on such subjects. But do not

suppose, pray, that your warnings and refiexions are lost upon
me; and believe me,

                                         Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                    Tum. Loner, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 22, 1858.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

    The remark that there are large portions in the scheme of

Ithe universe in which we cannot see design, is intended to

support the argument which urge against those who ask, what

                    ;

                          iIf
                                      is,
                                   if
the design of the stars and planets        they be not inhabited.

Perhaps pages 215 and 216 may be considered as bearing pretty

closely upon this argument but,      recollect my own writing,  it

more closely applied afterwards.
is

 I
        did not answer what you wrote to me a few days ago, about
theology having been so narrow before our astronomical dis

coveries, and so much enlarged by them, because could not
                                                 II I
call to mind any portions of theological literature which at all

supported this opinion, except perhaps the latter part of

Chalmers's Astronomical Discourses, supposing all his may be to

be turned into is. Nor could think that the discovery of new
                    I
                            I
spheres in the sky helped us out of any difficulty, in finding a

place for better and higher creatures than man.  did not know

that there was any such difficulty, and thought that a spiritual

body was best. placed on a spiritual sphere. But dare not at

present venture upon the old question of the ubi of spirits. The

history of the earth gives us perhaps the best glimpse which

science can give of the possibilities which belong tothis subject,

by shewing us from analogy that the Creator can bring into the

world beings as much superior to man as man to brutes.is

    Believe me, my dear Sir James.

                    Yours very truly, W. \VHEWELL.

392                      sm JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.

                                                                     Tam. Loner, Oct. 25th, 1853.

   MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

       I will occupy as little as possible of your time with my

answer to your kind and valuable criticisms; but with regard to

the relation between the Christian scheme and the Plurality of
IWorlds, must remark that
                                      by no means introduced for the
                                      it-
first time in pages 2416 and 247. On the contrary, the cltfllculttes
                                       I is
belonging to that relation are the starting point of my wholeI

essay and of Chalmers's speculations, which are my text.                   will
                                                                  I

                                                                      it

                                                                           I

                                                                                             in
soften the expressions which you notice, but the topic cannot be

excluded; for            it      in fact the topic of `my essay.  do not despair

                            if is
of finding that,                   you should` read again my argument from

" flowers that blush unseen," you will find' that                 contains an

answer to your view.               I  had once intended to write my essay

the form of a dialogue, and then should have rejoiced to have

such an expression as that of Mr Wilberforce which you quote`,

to grace my colloquy.              I  should then have made Philonous reply,

" But as God's smiles here do not need spectators, why do they
                         ItBesides Saturn has spectators.     is
Saturn
I                                                                         in
   I                                                                             It

                     2"                                                                    is in
                                                                  preciSely because

we see him and admire him, that we are talking about him.

very doubtful whether, we were upon him, or rather him, for
                         is

                               if
  am afraid there no f00ting there, he would look so well.
        will not go into the metaphysical argument. You may

find plenty of metaphysics in sheet 17; am afraid, too much.

                                 Believe me, dear Sir James,

                                      Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                             Tins. Loves, Nov. 4th, 1853.

MY. DEAR. SIR. JAMES,

                         It must be unsatisfactory when a person giving good

advice                   told in reply that the person advised has previously
1

         is

                                      a
                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                    a
weighed the considerations urged, and has thought other con

     "ISir James Stephen had written thus in his letter:          remember Mr Wilber
force saying as he plucked flower, `Ayl these are the smiles of God'; perhaps

borrowed, but surely very just expression."

          SIR JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                                                                      393

siderations more weighty. But such is the case with regard to

Iwhat you said in your letter of Nov. 1st on the unity of my
subject.  am aware that the Plurality of Worlds, discussed on

physical grounds alone, would be a simpler book and probably
Imore popular; but it would not be What have to say, or
Ifshould care to say.
                       the relation of Man and God is the great

feature in the universe, it concerns me to inquire what that

relation is; and in truth, that, and not the Plurality of Worlds

simply, was, and was declared to be, my subject from the be

ginning.                              '

     On the other point, the unsatisfactory aspect of the world

Iregarded as God's best work, cannot but say, on the other side,
Ithat cannot see what consolation it can- be for us that our world

is selected as the special abode of sin and misery. And the

futurity which Christianity has. unveiled surely tends to remedy,

not to aggravate, the dismay which the spectacle occasions. And

at any rate, whether or no there be vice or virtue in other worlds,

there are sin and misery in ours, which are not got rid of by
Iimagining scenes of bliss and purity unconnected with us.
                                                                                                        do

not like the phrase "the origin of evil ;" but some way of re

garding sin and misery on earth a pious and thoughtful man

must have. Mine may be quite wrong: but my essay as a The'odice'e

iIs,

        is

                                        if

                                       I

                                                                                                     a
hope, as allowable as others. The distinction between God's

action with regard to animals and to man have tried to point

out--one guess among many,  you will; but at least guess

that guided by Obvious phenomena. Animals are not capable

of vice or crime (except by a remote analogy with human actions)
because they are not moral creatures.

With regard to your other difficulty, you almost prevent my

speaking by making me feel presumptuous to do so; but you
I

      I
                 is, I

                                         is it

                                     I
                                                                                  it
may recollect that d0 not condemn those who think probable

or certain, that the creation thronged with beings whose modes

of existence are unimaginable to us.     have said you may have

thousands of circles of these beings, even below the Moon. But

what do say that all the attempts to connect the existence

of such beings with the planets and stars have failed; and, as

try to shew, fail the more, the more scientific light we throw

894.-           s'm JAMES STEPHEN. 1858.

upon them. This is my first thesis. You may go back to Ruling
Angels, or to any similar belief, but you must allow me to say

that there is no physical evidence in favour of such belief; nor,

Ias also try to shew, any metaphysical necessity.
   IYou will be glad, am sure, to know that you are near the

Iend of your friendly and valuable, but am afraid unsatisfactory,

labour.                                                  '

                Believe me, dear Sir James,

                Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                TRINITY LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 9th, 1853.

MY DEAR SIR JAMES,

    I am much obliged by your suggestion of a protest in the

Preface against being regarded as merely a philosophical person;

Iand shall try to profit by it. Yet can hardly think it necessary,

for, even if critics say to me what you suppose, it will agree with

Ithe common, and, presume, orthodox expressions which theolo

gians commonly use, when they say that philosophy cannot ex

Iplain revelation; which the philosophers on their side do not
pretend to do.  should haVe expected rather the accusation of
Imy scientific friends, that warp science to make it conform with
religion. But, as the times go, it will not be wonderful if both

the opposite charges are urged. In the course of your remarks

on my sheets, you several times spoke of the Plurality of Worlds

as a doctrine which supplies consolation and comfort to a mind

IoppresSed with the aspect of the sin and misery of the Earth.
To me the effect would be the contrary.                     should have no

consolation or comfort in thinking that our Earth is selected as

the especial abode of sin: and the consolation which Revealed

Religkrn ofllers for this sin and misery  not that there areis,I

                                                     if

                                                        I
other worlds in the stars sinless and happy, but that on the

Earth an atonement and reconciliation were effected.        This
doctrine gives a peculiar place to the Earth in theology.
                                                            It is,

or has been, in a peculiar manner the scene of God's agency and

presence; This was the view on which worked, as stated

emphatically in the early part of the book. But any persons

           sm JAMES STEPHEN. 1853.                          395

Ifind their comert and consolation in an opposite quarter, should

be very much grieved to disturb the convictions which comfort

Ithem, and would at least express my regret at the possibility of
doing so,  thought the feeling was extensively entertained. Can

you give me any means of judging of this? Can you tell me of

any book, except Chalmers's, where this view is dwelt on? On

Ireconsidering your objections to my metaphysical Chapters, their
abstruseness and prolixity,  found your remarks so much an
Iecho of my own calmer thoughts, that have resolved to sacrifice
Ithose Chapters, at least for the present; and am reprinting that

part of the work in a very abridged form.

With a strong sense of the kindness and patience which you

have shewn in your critical ofiice,

                     I am, my dear Sir James,

                             Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                             Tum. LoDaE, CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 14th, 1853`.

MY DEAR SIR JAMEs,

    IHerewith send you my Title-page and Prefade, that you

Imay see the last of my Essay, whose progress into print you have
followed so patiently and kindly.  have been much interested

in the remarks which you have made in your last letter, and read

Ithem with the respectful attention which is due to reflections so
grave coming from you.       am certainly surprised to find that

you think the Plurality of Worlds a doctrine so essential to
IfNatural Religion.
                     we were to consider this as established,

We should wonder how the Christians of the first 1500 years

Could believe that "God is love," and should hold Copernicus

and Galileo to be the true religious teachers of the world. And
yet the doctrine that God is loVe Was delivered without any

reference to any worlds but that in which man's scene of life is;

I Iand was understood till the last 300 years in the same special

sense. Indeed should think, as have before said, that the

greater part of persons would derive small satisfaction or con

solation from thinking that the Earth is the especial and selected

abode of sin and misery. But there is no use in dwelling on

396 CHEVALIER BUNSEN. 1853.

this difference of view, which may prevail more extensively than

I Isuspected. I, as have said, make it my business to deal with

difficulties which have been clearly stated, especially by Chalmers.

I was greatly interested with the little book of my old pupil and

friend, Birks, which you sent me. He is on the same track of

Ireasoning with myself; and his book and Hugh Miller's, which
he quotes, also serve to shew,   think, that men's minds are

Iready for a fuller discussion of the subject, and therefore that my
book may be seasonable.          am now waiting for a picture of

some nebulae as a frontispiece.
I Jregret extremely the manner in which Dr elf has forced
Imatters to extremities in the case of Mr Maurice.
                                                                           fear such

measures will do nothing but harm to religious belief.

Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                 Tnnur! COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 16th, 1853.

MY DEAR BUNSEN,

          You have made for yourself so important a place in our
English theological literature, and you know so well how conten
tious a field that that you will not be surprised to find that
opinions which you have published on theological subjects have
received notice in this University, more or less controversial.
a
                  is,

                              a
                                        a

                                                         is

                                               I
do not tell you this as matter which important to you, or
indeed to anybody; but still as matter which, in a place where
you have so many admirers, may not be uninteresting to you; and
which, at any rate, you ought to learn from a friend, rather than
from any common and vague report, which would probably reach
you in some distorted and exaggerated form. And hope you
will allow me to look upon myself, from long and to me very
interesting intercourse, though am sorry to say, from circum
stances which have often wished otherwise, far more broken
than have desired, as friend who will not be deemed officious

in giving you such information. Indeed you told me, both when
   spoke with you about your Hippolytus before was published,

and when you kindly sent me the book, that you regarded your
aphorisms as an appeal to the thoughts of religious men in this
I
     I
              I

                                            a

                             I

                                                                       it

                                                 I

           PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1853.                        397

country; and therefore you may naturally wish to hear what is
the response which such persons make to them. With regard to

I Ithe aphorisms in general, have nothing to say, except what
I Ibelieve said before, that they interested me deeply, and that

conceive they touch many of the points on which the minds of
religious men are most earnestly working. But of course those
who have to preach on the current speculations of the time,

relative to religious views, are naturally led to fasten their atten

tion on special points which are there propounded in a striking
manner. Such is the position of our Hulsean Lecturer, who

occupies the pulpit of the University Church during this month
of October, and who is required, by the conditions of his founda--

tion, to discuss any modern opinions which affect the evidences of

Religion. He has thought it incumbent upon him to make his

subject, for several Sundays, what you have said on the nature of
miracles, and the way in which the evidence of them is to be

contemplated. He deals with this subject very temperately, and

makes your aphorism on that subject rather the starting point of

his preaching, than the doctrine to which his discussion is opposed.

IThere is nothing in what he has said or, should think, is likely
Ito say, which calls for any reply. Still have thought that you

may like to know, since the fact is so, that your published views

are put in this position before us. Pray give my kind regards to
I IMad. Bunsen.
           have left Mrs Whewell at Lowestoft,     hope,

improved.

                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                        Tum. LoneE, Cameraman, Nov. 4, 1853.

MY DEAR FORBES,

I possess Arago's Ehge of Young; but, as my habit
           if

              it

                       it I

                                        is

                                                it

                                               I

                                                                        it

                                                              is,I
have bound with other quarto pamphlets, so that belongs to

a considerable volume.  will send you with great pleasure in

this state, you think worth the while; but in that case per

haps you had better give your exact address, as find the parcel
Ifdelivery of railroad offices not very exact or diligent.
                                                              you

receive my volume, you will find Arago in somewhat incongruous

398             REV. R. JONES. _1-8 53.

company; the fact'being, that I bind up pamphlets with little
Iattempt at classificatiqn, to save time and trouble.
                                                       was with
Igin-y wife yesterdaylat Lowestott, and found her going on well, as

jhope, enjoying the air and sunshine and able to walk about.
                1aas
I`I am printing a book which will, am afraid, appear very
Iheterodox to many of my friends--perhaps not to you.
                                                              try to

shew that the evidence is rather against, than for, inhabitants in

other planets and other systems than ours. The habitual decla

mation on the other side is so very unfounded, that a statement

Iof the arguments on that side may serve to produce a reasonable
equilibrium.  must publish the book without my name, in con
Isequence of the heresies which it will thus contain; so give you
Ithis information in a sort of confidence.
                                            think the case on my

side is much stronger than ordinary persons have any notion of ;

Ibut you shall judge for yourself shortly. Poor Ellis grows weaker
and weaker.   am told he is now so weak that he cannot

turn himself in his bed. We shall lose much by his not executing
the works which he had in hand, and which he would have exe

cuted so well; but it is an elevating though mournful spectacle to

see the soul retain its power so independently of the body as it
I Idoes in him.
              have not seen him lately.     do not believe the
IDean of Ely has anything to .say about his Young`, but will ask
him.

                Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                TRIN. LODGE, Dec. 30, 1853;

MY DEAR JONES,

      IYour letter was a great pleasure -_to me.  am myself
Idisposed to believe that my book is well written, because wrote

it lwith pleasure and facility. When you come to the hard

Ichapters expect you will be staggered. The more ought you

to admire me for myself-denial in cutting them cut after they

were written--r-indeed after they were printed. That you may see

Ihow the book looks so fashioned, have directed Parker to send

                1 See Vol. I. page d9.

            srR J. F. w. rrsnsount. .1854.                .399

Iyou a copy at 20, Duke .Street, Westminster, to which address

this--I am not quite sure whether rightly.

   I hope the new year begins for you .and Mrs Jones with good
Iauspices--I cannot say that much like the "auspices" as we

see them here. This letter of Lord Palmerston's is an ugly look
                      ****
ing thing.
I IMrs W. goes on, hope, well; but wish for her sake it were
Inot such ferocious weather.
                              am just going to try to make my

way through 100 miles of snow to spend New Year's day with

her. Give my love to Mrs Jones, and believe me,

                      Affectionately yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                 Lowrs-rorr, Jan. 3, 1854.

MY DEAR HERsanL,

Probably by this time an anonymous book has found its
Iway to you, on "the Plurality of Worlds." do not know whether

Iyou are likely to guess that have anything to do with it; but if
Iso, pray do not encourage any body in the same opinion.
                                                          believe

the doctrines there delivered will be deemed to some extent

.heterodox in science; as they may we'll be, being so much at

Ivariance with opinions which you have countenanced- But am
sure you will not wish that discussion on such matters should be

suppressed; and the author seems to me to have discussed the

question very fairly. Perhaps :you would not take itmuch to
heart if the inhabitants of Jupiter, or of the systems revolving

about double stars which you have so carefully provided for,

should be eliminated out of the universe. Indeed, if in this way

we could obtain a more satisfactory viewof the government and

Iprospects of us, the dwellers on this Earth, many of us would deem

the loss a gain. But, at any rate, hope you astronomers will

let us speculate on the one side as well as the other ; which is all

that my friend asks.          '

We are here in the middle of intense winter; the ground

covered with snow to the water's edge, the wind howling, and

Ithe shore strewn with wrecks in various gradations of destruction.
   hope that, whatever your outward world may look like at

400 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1854.

present, you have within doors the sunshine which arises from

good health and good family news, as you are sure to have the

sunshine that comes of love and good humour. Mrs Whewell

Ihas been here all the autumn, gaining, hope, in health and

strength. Pray give my affectionate good wishes to Lady Herschel

and all yourfamily circle, and especially to my godchild Amelia
Iand my deputy niece Maria.
                                  hope she has pleasant recol

lections Of our sojourn at Kreuznach. When we went thither, it

was almost as cold as it is now.

Always, my dear Herschel,

                     Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

` TRIN. LODGE, Feb. 19, 1854.

MY DEAR FORBES,
I am very glad to hear that you are reviewing my Plurality.
IThere is no one whose criticism upon the book should more
Iwish to see, and shall be much interested to learn what you
Iobject to, as well as what you approve.
                                           shall not wonder at all

at your hesitating to admit some of the astronomical arguments,

Ithough to me those about the Nebulae and about the Solar

System appear very strong; mean, as compared with the argu
ments on the other side. As to the Nebular Hypothesis, you may

I Ipull it to pieces as much as you like, with my perfect good will.
I
                               it,
                     I
have never, think, argued upon    except as an hypothesis

which might be alleged on the other side.  shall be surprised if

any one thinks that give any support to the man of the Vestiges.

It seemed to me that my book might have some value as a strong

case exactly opposed to his.      will reconsider the expressions
I
            it, I

                            is

                  I
to which you refer; but at first sight do not perceive that an

abortive flame, as speak of       more inconsistent with provi

dential design than an abortive stamen or an animal abortion.

As to the note 190,           a purposely wild hypothesis, offered
p.

          it

                 is

to balance another wild hypothesis, and to shew how easy, and

how entirely inconclusive, such hypotheses are. With regard to

the objection p. 21, seems to me to be the basis of the whole
it

                   I
of Chalmers's speculations; and certainly have found  it  very

           PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1854.                                 401

strongly operating on men's minds. It seems to me to differ

greatly from the objection referred to in p. 27; as much as the

Ihistory and destiny of man differ from the life of animals. And
if the objection is of little weight,  should like to know the

Ianswer to it. Some of the other points which you remark on

   know to be somewhat defective, in consequence of my having

I Icut out portions of what had written, which thought too

Imetaphysical--awful word to an author hoping for popularity!
   struck out 100 pages after they were printed, in which, among

other things, were attempts to illustrate the universality of Divine

I Iaction. "The sparrow falling to the ground " was not forgotten.
  should like you to see these omitted parts, do not mean with

reference to your review, which will of course take the book as

it but because should like to know what you think of my
is,I       I
                                                                     will
                      a
                                                     a
views; and from what you say they may interest you.           II

get copies of the cancelled sheets and send you them.

        forwarded to you short time ago letter from Studer of

Berne, which he sent to me, not being certain where you were,

and having written to you at Basle and at Paris in vain.             am

sorry you cannot give a better account of Mrs Forbes. Mrs Whewell

I is,I  hope, going on well, but has been a little thrown back by

the exertion which,  appears, was too great of going out in a
                     it
carriage.
                       I

                                                           ;

                                                  it
         forgot to say that did not suggest to Parker to apply to
you, nor knew that he haddone so but was a very good inspi
ration of his.

                     Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                       TRIN. Lonon, Feb. 26 [1854].

MY DEAR FORBES,

           send you the omitted parts of the Pluralitg/       Worlds.
I

                                             of
                                                of

                                                 I of
In the Chapter on the Omnipresence the Deity you will, think,

find some of the thoughts which occurred to you as having been

overlooked. If you take the trouble to compare these omitted

parts with the Chapter on the Unity the World, you will see

that the paragraphs, which in that Chapter may seem to be

w. 11.                                                        26

402 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1854.

somewhat unconnected, were parts of a continued chain of specu

lation, as originally written. It still seems to me that they are

too metaphysical for common English readers. And, though to

condemn and expose German speculations may be a good thing,

it seemed to be going too far out of the way to do it in discussing

the Pluraltty, with so many other strong prejudices to contend

Iagainst as the assertor of the Unity of the World has before
him. Mrs Whewell is better than she has been.  should be
Iglad to think that she is making a permanent progress.
                                                         hope

that you do so.

                    Yours always, W. WHEWELL.

\ Curr CorrAeE, Lowss'rorr, July 28, 1854.

MY DEAR FORBES,

    IIt was a great pleasure to me to hear from you, for was

very desirous of knowing what progress you had made in the
Irecovery of health, and am rejoiced to find that you can give
Ion the whole a more favourable account of yourself than had
Iof late from you.
                    had heard that you had had an attack of

pleurisy, and that in its result it was supposed by your medical

attendant to have left you better rather than worse, and also that
Iyou had been allowed to return to Scotland.
                                              am very glad to
                                              I hope, as time
find these statements confirmed by yourself.

goes on, you will be able to report yourself a strong and sound
Iman again, as you ought to be.
                                 am much obliged by your list

of the densities of the planets. You will have seen in the

IPlurality of Worlds what use intended to make of it. Close

accuracy is of no consequence in my argument, and indeed the

whole argument is far from conclusive; but we must reason as

we can on this dark subject. The points which now appear to

me to be most likely to throw light on the question are the

amount of light in the Fixed Stars compared with the Sun, and

the changes which take place in the forms of Nebulae. The

latter subject is as yet untouched; and on the former the esti

mates are so different, that the argument inclines one way or

the other, as you follow this or that author. Yet the point itself

                    PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1855.                                                              403

seems to be not incapable of considerable accuracy. We can

compare the sun with the moon, and the moon with the stars;
Ifand, it would seem, in both cases with some security.
                                                                                                           you

find anything which appears to you trustworthy on this subject,
I Ishall be obliged to you to point it out to me.
                                                   have in the
Isecond edition of the Plurality of Worlds, which have had to
publish, referred to Herschel's statements in his Outlines of

Astronomy. Do you know anything better? As to the changes
Iin the Nebulae, we must, suppose, wait for our knowledge, or
Irather, leave the hope of it to another generation.
                                                      am afraid

Ithat even Lord Rosse will not be able to tell us anything on the
subject for many years.      have taken little interest in the Royal
ISeciety's proceedings of late, but
                                             much regret losing Lord
I IRosse as President. know little of the new councillors.
                                                             have
Iof late years been so little in London that have almost lost all

knowledge of the new men of science there. Some of them

I Icertainly do not think much of. This year have scarcely
Ibeen a day in London, though have been persuaded to give

two inaugural Lectures, as they call them. They contained my

ordinary general views with a few illustrations, but they seemed

to be accepted as answering their purpose.
I am glad your Dissertation goes on. When it is published
Iand have read
                  I iIt,
                                                        I
                         shall feel some confidence that know

what has been recently done in physics. From the account of

ordinary narrators  can collect little that satisfies me.

                               '

                              Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR FORBES,              TRINITY LODGE, (hummus, March 10, 1855.

                                                                                                        '

    was very glad to receive letter from you, for my letter
II                         I iIf
                                          a
which crossed`yours did not prevent my feeling as  iIf  were in

your debt, or, at least, as  should like to write to you again,

which was about to do.       am especially rejoiced that you can

give so good an account of yourself, and hope that, now you have

weathered an Edinburgh winter, you may emerge from the

condition of an invalid. grieve to say cannot give you a good
                         I
                                        I

                                                   26--2

404 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1855.

account of my wife, except so far as this: that she is better than

she has been; for she has had the influenza added to her other

discomforts, and has now got rid of that part of her troubles. What

you tell me about the progress of your Dissertation interests me
Imuch.
          have the most entire confidence in your justice and in
Iyour judgment, and therefore
                               highly value what you say of
Iyour habit of using my books.
                                                        know that it requires some

effort to act in such a case with perfect impartiality, when one

knows that what one has to say will disappoint worthy and

Ilaborious people; but the feeling of the value of historical truth
supports one under such annoyances.                     cannot think otherwise

than that your book will be well received; though perhaps not

by that class of popular readers who have been led to believe

that they can judge of scientific discoveries without knowing

anything of science--an impression studiously strengthened by

various persons, some of whom know no better, and others ought
Ito know better.
Ipoints.            shall be curious to see what you say on many

          think magnetism comes within your field. Do you
Ifollow Faraday in his notion of physical lines of force?
                                                           have

told him that the notion must be followed much more into detail

than he has yet done, before we can compare it with other

theories; but that, as an expression of the facts, it will probably

have great value. The wrangle about the correction of magnetism

in ships, carried on in the Athenwum between Airy and Scoresby,
Iis probably too much a point of practice for your field.
                                                           should

have been better pleased, like you, if Airy's determination of the

Idensity of the earth had agreed with former_results ; but am

much disposed to believe that his method is the most trustworthy.

If the increase were very great, it might affect the argument about

Plurality of Worlds; but it does not go far enough for that.

Have you seen a strange little paper of Airy's in the Proceedings

Iof the Royal Society, in which he assumes the interior of the
earth to be fluid?  can tell you nothing of the life of Young,
Ias to the chance of its speedy appearance; for have almost

ceased to question Peacock about thinking the subject must be
I
                                            a
                                                   it,
a disagreeable one to him, as work so long overdue would be to

me. have not yet looked at the volume of Arago. In fact,

                 SIR c. B. AIRY. 1855.                              405

Ithis term am mainly employed with my Moral Philosophy,
having to lecture and examine in that subject. My interest in

Ithe subject by no means abates; but am meditating to ease

myself of the employments which it brings, by resigning my
IProfessorship.
                 find lecturing in addition to other matters rather
Ia burden; and have now got our Professorial scheme into a
Icondition, which has, hope, some coherence and stability, so that
I may devolve the management of it into other hands.

                 a s a is

                        Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                        Tnnn'rr LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, April. 15, 1855.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE [CORNEWALL LEWIS],

    I am much gratified that, although you have now the

empire of England to manage as well as the history of Rome,

Iyou have had so kind a recollection of me as to send me a copy
of your book on the latter subject.  am reading it with great

interest; the more so, inasmuch as our scholars here have been

Imuch in the habit of accepting Niebuhr's views of Roman history
recently, as servilely as they did Livy before.  am. glad to see

that you are resolved to judge for yourself, and to enable us

to do so.               ,
I am amused with your comparing the speculations of the

Niebuhrian school to the inquiries whether the stars are inhabited.

And the comparison is very just; for when you have called a

portion of history a mythe, the persons who figure in it are

supposed to be as far out of our knowledge as the inhabitants of

the Moon or of Saturn.

           Believe me, my dear Sir George,

                        Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                           Tam. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 15, 1855.

   MY DEAR AIRY,

       I am Vice-chancellor, as perhaps you know, and must

therefore regard matters in a Vice-cancellarian way. Here is one.

>406  PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1856.

A little while ago one Dr Whewell offered the Observatory here

a set of Brooke's magnetic photographic apparatus such as you
have at Greenwich. Now the V. C. and Syndicate have to
consider what is to be done with this gift, whether it is to be put
in use for observing. For that purpose it will be necessary to

build a magnetic house, such as you-have, and to employ an

Iadditional observer. The expense will be considerable, and will

be, fear, almost beyond the means of the University. But what
weighs with the V. C. still more is that it does not appear of what

use the observations will be when made. It appears to me that

those recorded observations which you have at your Observatory,

accumulated and accumulating, have as yet been of no use to

science; and neither you nor your Visitors can see how they are

Ito be of use of that kind. This being the case, do not ,see' the

wisdom of setting up another expensive establishment, at the
cost of our poor body, and heaping up still more of these useless
measures. As we must make a report to the Senate on this

Isubject, shall be glad if you will tell me--what is the size of

your magnetic house, and, if you can, what has been the cost of
it; how far you agree with me that it is not of much value to

science, in its present state, to establish an additional magnetic

Iobservatory of this kind; and anything else which you think

bears upon the question. have called a meeting of the Syndicate
on Saturday, and should be glad to hear by that time.

                                     Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                 Tum. LoDon, CAMBRIDGE, July 18, 1856.

MY DEAR Forums,
      I have no doubt that you have long before this time with
Idrawn from the city to the country, and wisely done so.
                                                          hope

you will thereby lay in a stock of health and strength which .will
Icarry you onwards when the summer is done.
                                             shall therefore
I Iprobably not see you when come to Edinburgh, but will not
Ivisit your city without letting you know that am going to do so.

There is a meeting of the Archaeological Institute, which assembles

in your very archaeological city on the 22nd, and holds its sittings

            PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1856.                    407

Iand makes its expeditions for about a week. This meeting hope

to join; having found some Of my brother Heads who will take

my Vicechancellor's duty for a few weeks. The liberty thus gained

will enable me to visit my friends in Cumberland and Westmore

Iland, which am very desirous of doing.
   I hope you go on prosperously, in bodily health, and in

intellectual activity. How does your history of the recent pro
Igress of science proceed ?
                             should under any circumstances

Ihave asked this with great interest, as you will easily believe ; but
  have moreover an especial reason for wishing to know what you

Ihave done and are doing in this way, inasmuch as am going to

print a new edition of my History, and shall wish to give some

Iindications of the progress made in science since the last edition was
published.  do not think you will be afraid of my appropriating
Iyour stores; but shall be glad to learn, by comparison with what
Iyou do, that am in the right path of investigation, and to have
Imy views confirmed by yours, as have little doubt they will be.
IAt present am mainly employed about the old people, Plato and

Aristotle, and the like. The books which have recently been

published about them give occasion to a few remarks. By the

way, who is to succeed your great philosopher of the Middle Ages,

Sir Wm. Hamilton?       receive interminable collections of printed
ITestimonials with regard to the Candidates.
                                              suppose Prof.

Ferrier must have in his reputation and connections much to
Irecommend him.
                   hope you will obtain for a colleague some one

Iwho does not hold that. mathematical studies ruin the mind.
  shall be here till the 22nd, and then at Edinburgh. With my

I Ilimited time fear cannot go further north. My kind remem

brances to Mrs Forbes.

                        Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                         TRINITY LoDeE, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 3, 1856.

    MY DEAR FORBES,

       I Ido not know how it is that have not written to you
I Isooner, for have often thought of doing so since left Scotland.

I hope you are returned to Edinburgh improved in health by the

408 PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1856.

Isummer's rest and retirement. For collect that you are returned
Ifrom your communication to the Athenwum.
                                               think you are
right in your remarks there made. It grieves me to see labour

thrown away in making indexes and works of reference on so large
a scale that they cannot be used with any advantage. The persons

who make them must be persons whose judgment can be trusted,

or else their labour can be of little value; and if they are such

persons, the results of the exercise of their judgment should take

a permanent form, and modify the shape and extent of their
Irecords.
           conceive that your own offer to give your labour to the

cause is connected with the work you have had to go through in
Ipreparing your Dissertation.
                               hope it is in a state of forwardness ;
I Iand entertain this hope, not only from the interest which shall
Iof course feel in it on general grounds, but also because expect

it will keep me out of error and deficiency in the new edition of

Imy History. Anything which may insert with reference to

events more recent than my last edition (1847) must of course
be very slight and general; but still to know what is the result of

a more detailed survey of the ground will be of use to me, as
I have said, in keeping me right. When do you expect to go to
Ipress?
         am here busy with the end of my Vicechancellor's year,

and with getting our new constitution into working order, which
Ithe Act makes to be my business.
                                   do not expect that the

change will be very conspicuous, or that, if you come to

Cambridge, you will see any great alteration in the aspect of

Ithings; and am especially afraid that. the new system will not

do any of the good which needs to be done.

           1c                  s            s

           1 am always, my dear Forbes,
                          Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

                               Tami-r! Loncz, Oct. 23, 1856.

MY DEAR Forums,

    I have just cast my eye over your Dissertation (I have not
I Iyet had leisure to do more, for this is a very busy time with us),
and like very much both the plan and the execution.      shall

              MR DE MORGAN. 1857.                                                                                          409

return to it in a short time, when Ican write the additions to my

new edition of the History, and then I shall go carefully through

is

                             I it,

                                            if

                                           I
it and will give my judgment on parts of               you care to have it.

Our plan a good deal different, so that shall not have so much

temptation to steal from you as might at first appear, and the

leading topics of my additions are already sketched.                                                                       see that

the Edinburgh Review, in the article on Arago, has at last

adopted pretty decidedly the undulatory theory. Do you know

who wrote the article? The part of your history where cannot
                                                                 it I
yet help having some misgivings about an alleged discovery,                                                                   is

that about the mechanical equivalent of heat.                    believe rather
                                                       I II
on Wm. Thomson's authority, than because                         have satisfied

myself. Are you quite satisfied?              it I  send you 'copies of my

memoirs on the Tides which you want, and which have, the
                                                                 I

sixth, seventh, and fourteenth; have not, fear, the eighth and
                          I                         I

ninth, but they are not important ones. The sixth series am
                                                                                                                           I

glad to send you, for look upon                  as my great achievement
              I
in Tidology.         I
              still want a. Tidal expedition.                    believe now

that the oceanic tides cannot be represented by cotidal lines;

they are forced vibrations, as you say, and cannot make them
                                                    I

out clearly, except an expedition be sent to hunt them. The British

Association has authorized a new application to Government

for such an expedition; but fear there                       no chance of the
                        s

                           I

                                                         is
Admiralty taking the matter up.               s              is

                                          is

                        Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

                          Tam. LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 1857.
I
        I

               I
                                                                                                                       8,
MY DEAR SIR [MR DE MORGAN],

Your letter has remained unanswered in consequence of

my absence from England.  have been at Rome, where among

other things think ascertained that the story of the reversal of

the sentence of Galileo amounts only. to this: that on a revision of

the Index Expurgatorius in 1818, his works (along with others,

41.0  MR DE MORGAN. 1857.

and as a matter not unusual) were removed from the list, not

Iwithout opposition.          should think the most exact and
     With regard to Rothmau,

complete account of his family circumstances and cardinal dates

will be heard from Pashley, now Police Magistrate, who was his

executor, or from Rothman's- sister, to whom Pashley can probably

direct you. We can tell Our usual story about him--that he was

elected Scholar in 1820 (I think his Freshman's year), Fellow

1824. He was of Airy's year, but became Fellow a year later

than Airy did. Senior in 1843. He filled at various times various

college offices, which would not interest the world. You know

Ihis London life better than do.
   I IThe Bromheads have, believe, a brother living; who, suppose,

must be the present baronet, and must be Sir Edmund Bromhead,
Thurlby Hall, Lincolnshire. Charles Ffrench Bromhead was of

my year. He was very tenacious of the double Ff; also very

desirous of having it recollectedthat an ancestor of his, Gonville,
was one of the founders of Gonville and Caius College. We

reckoned our year a great year. The Fellows whom it gave to the
College were, besides myself, Sheepshanks, Julius Hare, Hamilton

(Conic Sections, and Dean of Salisbury), Edward Elliott (Home
Apocalypticae), Higman, Stevenson, now vicar of Dickleburgh, and

Bromhead. He was proud of the group to which he belonged.

He had some mathematical talent, and took a share in the discus

sions and attempts which our new mathematics then occasioned.

His elder brother, Sir Edward, was before me: he was an associate

Iof Herschel, Babbage, and the like; perhaps Sir Ed. Ryan. believe

he was one of the writers in the very remarkable volume of Ana

lytical Memoirs, published at Cambridge in 1813 by Herschel,

Babbage, Maule. And he wrote on the Fluents of Irrational Func

tions in the Philosophical Transactions, 1816. Afterwards he was

Imainly employed in the life of a country gentleman ; but he wrote

upon Botanical Classification, think in the Philosophical Magazine,

He belonged to the class who aim in all things at generalizations.

      Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

             PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1857.               411

                           Lawnsrorr, Sept. 19, 1857.

MY DEAR FORBES,

        I was very glad to find a letter from you on my return to
ICambridge.
             should have written to you, but did not know

whither to direct it; which often prevents one's writing, though

Ione knows that the letter, if sent wrong, will be forwarded right.
  hope you are the better for your spring at Clifton, and am glad

I Ithat you are likely to enjoy your summer retreat at Pitlochry.

  shall be very glad if at some future time am able to see you

there.
IIt is true that was at Dublin during the British Association
I Imeeting; but fear cannot tell you very much about what
Ihappened there.
                  did not arrive in the place till the middle of
Ithe meeting; and then, a very unusual thing for me, was so ill
Ithat was hardly able to attend any of the meetings, or to enter
Iinto what went on there.
                           saw, as you say, in Lloyd's Address,

Ithat the dynamical-heat men are running their scent very eagerly.

But the principal paper which heard of on that subject was

George Rennie's, which was reasonable and definite enough,

being mainly experiments upon the old question of the heat pro

duced by friction. The theory of molecules with atmospheres,

rotations, and the like, which Lloyd seemed disposed to coun

tenance, is fantastical enough, and different enough from- any
                                                  I have no
theory which sound science has ever established.

objection to let theorists indulge in such fancies. In the case
of heat, Laplace and Ampere have done it before; and, if there

be any real explanation of phenomena in such theories, the
hypotheses will simplify themselves as they are worked out and

compared with facts. But Presidents of the British Association

and Edinburgh Reviewers ought not lightly to adopt such fan

cies; for theirs is a judicial position, and they give ordinary
Ireaders a wrong notion of the progress of science.
                                                     should
Ihardly have gone to the meeting if it had not been that wanted

Ia reason for going to Ireland, to see Lord Monteagle's house and

Lord Rosse's telescope. In my visit to the latter had not the

Ibenefit of a fine day, though did catch a glimpse of a nebula.

412 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1858.

IBut saw the mechanism and handling of the instrument, which
Iare very good and well devised, and which had not fully com
I I Iprehended before, though suppose might have done so, if had

attended to the descriptions which are everywhere given of it.

                                   aaaa

                         Believe me always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

              . Tam. Lovers, Feb. 28, [1858.]

MY DEAR FORBES,

I did not reply immediately to the kind invitation which
Iyour last letter contained, because knew that you would in
Iterpret my silence to mean, what was the truth, that could not
Ithen come to you.
                    shall be most glad to come into your regions,
Iand to you, when an Occasion of leisure offers, and, hope, in

I IScotland, or in England, the year will not pass away without
our meeting.  left the North, as told you, to go into Kent

to marry my nephew to Herschel's daughter, which was very

happily performed. The young couple are now at Rome, mainly

aided in their sight-seeing by our friend Pentland, as every one

must be who is willing to take his guidance.

But the occasion which sets me upon writing to you at

present is to tell you of the pleasure which your article in

Fraser upon the new edition of the History of the Inductive
Sciences has given me. Your praise is worth having, because

I I Ithough know that may reckon upon your friendship, know

too that that feeling is incapable of influencing your judgment;

Iyou judge both with more knowledge and more thought than
any other review-er of the history of science.  am much in
Iterested in the Lessons which you draw from your survey.
                                                           hope

the present generation will profit by your telling them that

Igreat discoveries are now as rare as ever. Their self-complacency
will make this a strange announcement to many of them.     have

been gathering some hints (small ones) about the history of

I Iscience in Cambridge from reading Barrow's works.    We are
going to publish a new edition of Barrow.       think   am now

in a condition to prove that, though the Cartesian philosophy, as

                   PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1858.                      413

a system of. Mechanics, was accepted here (very wisely), yet that

the notion of the Vortices, the subtile matter, and the like, was

rejected from the first. So little basis is there for the jeers which

your countrymen, led by Playfair and Stewart, used to cast upon

Ius. do not know whether we shall edit Barrow's mathematical

                   whether will be worth while, as a trading
works; that       is,

                                   it

                                                               I
speculation: for we are obliged to look upon matters in that

point of view. We are in the hands of our Commissioners at

present, and do not know what will come of it. No good, fear.

Give my kind regards to Mrs Forbes, and believe me always

most truly yours,                                W. WHEWELL.

                                  Wrnnsnmmn Hornn, Sept.  1858.
                                                 it
MY DEAR FORBES,                                                              1,

                                                                 if
               Your letter of the 28th reached me yesterday, just when

we were undecided what course to take next, partly because we

had concluded a round of visits, and partly because the weather

seemed to be breaking up. To-day, however,       seems as this

glorious summer had not yet exhausted its bountiful spirit, and

we have some heart to proceed further northwards; the more
so, that your friend, my dear brother-in-law, Ellis, after having

had bad attack lately now much better, at least for a time.
   may mention that am sure a letter from you would give
I                      I
            a                 is

him great pleasure. Though blind and sadly afflicted in many

ways, his mind     is  as active as ever; he retains his interest in

old subjects of speculation, and has always something bright and

original to suggest on every subject that        presented to him.
                                                 is
The clearness of his mind and the kindness of his heart under
                                                      I,
his circumstances are striking and touching sight. We have
                       is a
been enjoying exceedingly, Lady Afl'leckl and             our northern

tour. All the north          new to her, and delights her much.

And, as have said, we have some thoughts of extending our
               I

travels still further north. And want you to tell me whether
                                  1. I
we could for a few days have good accommodation near you,

                       1     See Vol. page 222.

414          ' MR DE MORGAN. 1858.

Ithat my wife may have the privilege of becoming acquainted
better with you and Mrs Forbes.  think you must have a good
` hotel near you.
                   s a s 4*

     Lady Affieck desires her kind regards and will be very happy
to renew her acquaintance with you and Mrs Forbes.

             Believe me, dear Forbes, yours most truly,

                                    W. WHEWELL.

             is I                  TRIN. LODGE, Oct.                                                                    1858.
                         I
MY DEAR SiR [MR DE MORGAN],
                                                      is

                                                   aI
                                                       I

                                                                                                                   10,
     In the Athenceum of Sept. 18  an article about Bacon,

about which am sure you will feel an interest.           am nearly

sure that you wrote it.  will therefore send to you a notice

which will interest the writer thereof, relative to point there

mentioned--Barrow's acquaintance with Bacon's works. happen

to be able tolspeak very distinctly on that point. Among Barrow's

Latin works        a speech (of 1652) on the Cartesian hypothesis, not

meaning thereby cortices--I doubt whether any Cambridge man

ever thought seriously about the vortices--but the hypothesis that

all natural phenomena maybe accounted for by matter and

motion. Barrow argues against this hypothesis, and, after adducing

various other arguments, says, "Committo autem cum eo (Cartesio)
Platonein, &c., at imprimis ac prae omnibus tanquani wpd/Laxov
hujusce proalii, Veralamium nostrum, &c." He quotes him so as

to shew he had read him well--generally and particularly--his

warnings, his images. And again in a later part of the same
speech he goes still more into the detail of Bacon's philosophy,

quotes his motus libertatis, nexus, continuitatis, ad lucrum, fugaa

unionis, conyreyationis, and instances, after Bacon, the electrical

operations of Gilbert as examples of motus ad lucram.

I    have no doubt Bacon's works were familiar to all Cambridge

men of Newton's time. Have you overlooked Cowley's Ode To

the Royal Society? Macvey Napier wrote a Dissertation on the

influence of Bacon's works in the Edinburgh Transactions, and

                 M. QUETELET. 1 8 5 8.                           415

I think, since published in his Essays. Gassendi has a very copious

analysis of the Novu'm Organum.
I am only recently returned from a summer tour with my wife.
IIn the course of it
                      received a letter from you containing

some kind expressions to both of us, which were duly valued.  '
ILady Aflieck and are now here for the rest of the year.

                 Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

We had the Newton celebration at Grantham, when of course

we did not tell our hearers that his discoveries were according to
Iyour anagram, Not New: but told them something from Barrow
Iabout our Cambridge philosophy of that time.
                                               have said what
I had to say about the new edition of Bacon in the Edinburgh
IReview for October last, believe.

                      anmrr Gomez, CAMBRIDGE, Nov. 26, 1858.

MY DEAR M. QUETELET,
I IIt is so long since wrote to you that almost seem to
Imyself to have forfeited your friendship, but yet will not believe
Ithat it is so.
                 have been prevented from writing to you of late,

by knowing of the heavy domestic calamity which had fallen upon
Iyou, and feeling my inability to offer you any consolation.
                                                              hope
Ithat, notwithstanding all that you have lost, (and could appreciate

Ithe greatness of your loss), you are still rich in family treasures,
and happy in the happiness of your children.   do not know if
Iyou have heard that have found a dear and sweet companion to
Isolace my solitude.  was married to Lady Afieck last July; she

is the sister of one of our good Cambridge Mathematicians, whom
I think you know, Robert Leslie Ellis, one of the editors of the new
Iedition of Bacon's Works.  think he once passed an evening at

your house at Brussels; he is still a person of admirable clearness

of mind, but has been confined to his bed for several years, and

I Iafflicted by the severest bodily sufl`erings, including loss of sight.
Though  have no children as you have,          have young
Irelatives in whom take a paternal interest.
                 is s s as

416 MR DE MORGAN. 1859.

One young nephew is married to a daughter of Herschel, so
Ithat have the satisfaction of being connected by family ties
Iwith him, one of my earliest friends.
                                               gladly talk to you of
Ithese domestic matters, for persuade myself that you will not

be sorry to hear of me, and these things interest me more than

scientific news, if there were any good news stirring, but at present

I hear of none. Our mathematician Adams is to succeed Dr

Peacock as one of our mathematical Professors here. You knew

Sheepshanks, his love for Astronomy, and perhaps his love for this

College. His sister, mindful of his feelings, is about to give

£10,000 sterling to Trinity, for the promotion of Astronomy.

   IA few days ago was pleasantly reminded of you by receiving

a parcel of books, including some volumes of your Bulletins de

l'Acade'mie Royale. This led me to consider how large and how

valuable the series and have resolved to give my Series to our
                   I
                         is,
                          I
College Library.   do not know whether would be possible for
                                             it

                                                I

                                                                   1,
                                                                         2,
you to put the name of the College, instead of mine, on the list of
Ifpersons to whom the Bulletins are sent.
                                               you could, the series

would go on in future to benefit the Library.  may mention too

I;that at present  cannot find some of the volumes, namely,
                   I
                          I                                                           and 3;

                                        9,
Tome  Tome 2; Tome Pt. 1; Tome 13, Pts.

Tome 14, Pt. 1: perhaps may find them hereafter among my

books. Once more excuse my long silence, and believe me yours
with unaltered regard, and let me have the pleasure of hearing

from you and hearing how you are.

                                            Yours faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

                                             Lowns'ror'r, Jan. 18, 1859.

MY DEAR SIR [MB Dr. MORGAN],

     After having invited your criticism on my Novum Organon,

ought not to omit to thank you for it.         have been, as
II
    I
               I it I

                                   is
                                                 a

                             I
                                              I

                                                                                  it
expected that should be, instructed and interested by it. Nor

can deny that      in great measure just. My object was to

analyse, as far as could, the method by which scientific discoveries
have really been made; and called this method Induction,

because all the world seemed to have agreed to call                                   so, and

                   MR DE MORGAN. 1859.                                  417

because the name is not a bad name after all. That it is not

Iexactly the Induction of Aristotle, know; nor is it that described

by Bacon, though he hit very cleverly on some of its characters,
Ierring much as to others.
                                 am disposed to call it Discoverers'
IInduction; but dare not venture on such a novelty, except in

 the indirect way in which Ilhave done. With such a phraseology

I7 think my formulae are pretty near the mark, and my Inductive
 ITables a good invention. But do not wonder at your denying

these devices a place in Logic; and you will think me heretical

Iand profane, if say, so much the worse for Logic.
   I shall be amused if you succeed-in persuading the world that

Bacon had little to do with the modern progress of science. The

cry in his favour has been so strong and universal during the last

150 years that the task will be difficult; but perseverance may do

Imuch. Others of my friends are bent upon re-establishing his

moral character, and with them too agree in a great measure.

IIt will be odd if live to see Bacon no longer reckoned a great

philosopher and a bad man, but a poor philosopher and a good
man; but yet this is not far from my thought, and may become
a popular opinion. ` The greatest, brightest, meanest of mankind'

Imay become `ambitious theorist, but honest man.'

       can express every whole number from 1 to 15 (I think) by

means of four 9s`. Thus 2 =§+g. Is it worth while working

this out further?

                                 Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                                                    Tam. Loner, Feb. 14, 1859.

   MY DEAR SIR [MR DE MORGAN],

      I go on drawing my Barrow upside down, according to the
Iimagination of our examiners; for am now, last of all, printing
Ihis mathematical works, which are, think, his best performance.

      1 Two more examples taken  from a fragment  in  Dr Whewell'e  handwriting  wi'll
illustrate the meaning of this:

                   6=J9+9+9+9, megs-gig.

w. II.                                                              27

                                                                       "WT

418 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1860.

IIn doing so, have found a passage1 which will perhaps amuse

you, and which you will think a good thing frankly said. He

Iasserts that Algebra is not a part of Mathematics but of Logic.
   have copied out the passage and send it inclosed herewith.

I still think, notwithstanding your startling illustrations, that

Logic has got her name up by being supposed to have something
to do with discovering truth, and that it is so much the worse for

her, if she cannot keep this part of her character. You make her

the old maid of the family of Truth, who nurses the children of

all the sister sciences, but has none herself. Certainly in the old

time she used to flirt with a large body of lovers, and gave a

hope of a numerous progeny. According to your account, she does

not really help us to sharpen scythes, which may reap a really

valuable harvest, but only to whet razors, which may scrape away
Ifwhat is superfluous from the surface.
                                         you will not let me
Itreat of the Art of Discovery as a kind of Logic, must take a

I

         it

                is
                           it,

                                   iIf
                                        I

                                                 I
new name for Heuristic, for example, only that, as you know,

do not assert such an art to exist.'  am not sure, however,                         ``

that  not possible; or rather,        had £20,000 a year which

might be devoted to the making of discoveries, am sure that

some might be made. The projects of Solomon's House, and

Cowley's College, and the like, are not quite visionary, as the
British Association has shewn. And though such machinery can
only collect facts at first, collected facts will suggest discoveries;

especially now, that we know in a good degree the way of extract

ing laws from facts. Your Astronomical Society                         a valuable
                 ;

                    I
                                                                   is
instrument of my Logic so wish you success in the composition

of your Report.

                 Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                      Turn. Loncn, Feb. 29, 1860.

MY DEAR Forums,

      Your kind letter has remained too long unanswered partly
1 II
                                                   I;
that was waiting till you were likely to receive the volume

which have just published, the end of my Philosophy.                   am

      Barrow's Lectionea Mathematicae, Lect. 11.; page 45 of Dr Whewell's edition.

PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1860.                                 419

Iafraid that publish so many books, that they must be a burthen
Ito the friends to whom give them; but this, though in a great

part only a new edition, has in it so much new matter, that
I Icould not help asking for it a place on your shelves.
                                                          have

Iventured to follow out my views as they lead into religious

philosophy, being convinced, as have there said, that men will

not be satisfied with any comprehensive philosophy which does

not do this. The want of this is that which to my mind makes

Humboldt's Cosmos so unsatisfactory as a whole, and deprives it
Iof any real principle of unity.
                                  am aware, of course, how

ticklish a matter religious philosophy is; and do not expect you
Ior any one to agree exactly in my views, though shall be much
Iinterested to know in what light they strike you.
                                                    am led by

my course of reasoning to the field of a hot controversy which is

now going on between Mansel of Oxford and F. Maurice; but
I think no one can accuse me of being controversial in what
I Isay on that subject.
                         am also led to my controversies with
ISir W. Hamilton, whose metaphysics always thought as worth
I Iless as he was subtle and learned. And now hope have done

with my History and Philosophy for a long time, for a new

edition will not soon be wanted.

Your notice of dear R. Ellis in the Athenwum has given great
Ipleasure to many persons as well as to us.
                                             have considered

what he has said about F. Bacon, in my additional Chapter about

I IBacon in the volume of Chapters` which, as have said, hope
Ihas reached you by this time. And now am going to proceed

I Iwith my translation of Plato. Acting on your Scottish proverb,
   have taken care to be ofi' with the old love before am on with

Ithe new; and shall now finish a second volume, as the public

have taken very kindly to the first. In your letter you noticed

Iwhat had said in my sermon about public schools. You are,

Ihowever, to understand it was said, not on the ground of what
   know of public schools, but with reference to certain books

which appeared lately....It seemed to me that these works, as well

as the behaviour of our young officers in India, and the language

     1 The title of the book is On' the Philosophy of Discovery, Chapters Historical
and Critical.

                                                                                      27--2

nor.420                  J. D. FORBES. 1_860._

Iwhich they used in their narratives, must give foreigners a great

disgust for us as a cruel and savage people; and so took the

opportunity of saying. When you send any of your children to

school, Irhope you will find a school very different from those
                         Y
thus described ..... ..
IWhen do you move to St Andrew's?
                                        am sorry that you

have difficulty in getting a suitable house there, but something

may turn up unforeseen. Our kindest regards to Mrs Forbes.

Lady A. begs her cordial remembrances.

                         Always truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

- Buomm, July 24, 1860.

MY DEAR Forums,

    I I Ithink did not tell you that Lady A. and had made

up, our minds to go to Spain to see the eclipse of the 18th in its

totality. We did so, and saw it very well from a range of hills

near Ordufia, south of Bilbao. The eEect was very striking, above

all things the corona, which shone out as soon as the eclipse was
Itotal.
         had not imagined any thing so sudden and luminous.

You will probably hear and read a good deal about it, for there

were many English observers scattered about the country, and

I ILeverrier with bodies of French and Spanish ones further south.

To me, may say think to all at our station, the corona

Iappeared to consist of white light with radial rays at various

points ;7 but other observers whom have seen speak of the

I, diverging rays being curved in various ways. Galton who was,
     believe, at Miranda has made a wonderful picture with curved
Iand tangential rays. The red prominences
                                                could not see
Idistinctly with the naked eye, and used no telescope. We did

not see the four planets, as Capt. Jacob at another station did,

but we saw stars and an extraordinary safl'ron dawn in the

horizon, when all was very dark about us. Altogether the

phenomena were quite a thing to see in one's lifetime, if possible.

We were the more pleased, as the previous days and the morning

Itill eleven or twelve were most unpromising with cloud and rain ;

and, believe, the same was the case at all the other stations,

                     PROF. J.- D. FORBES. 1861.         421

and at almost all the sky cleared most benignantly just in time.        ,

We have purchased this enjoyment at the cost of some discomfort
in Spanish inns, which, however, may be borne, even by ladies,
when you have learnt the ways of them; and Lady A. has
enjoyed her Spanish tour greatly; a little longer than our Scotch
tour, for that was only nine days, and this was eleven.

                               s a s is

                     Yours affectionately, W. WHEWELL.

                     Curr Cor-men, Lowssror-r, July 10, 1861.

MY DEAR FORBES,

    I Iought sooner to have answered your letter, but have

Ibeen in circumstances unfavourable to letter writing ever since
  received it. We went to London early in June and remained

there till a few days ago, a good deal involved in engagements
Isuch as belong to London at that season.
                                                    am not without a

feeling of regret that you should have been in the south of

England without coming to us; and still more grieved to find that

it was the insecurity of your health which made you return to

IScotland in so premature a manner as to pass us by on the other
side of the island.  am glad, however, that you are discovering

so much to enjoy in the climate of St Andrew's. As to your pro

Iject of a common hall for your students, should think it likely
to be very beneficial; the more so, if you have any traditional

habits connected with which may secure good order and good
          I
                                  it,
                                               Of
manners.  suppose some your Professors will generally dine

there. We have had to make some alterations in our arrangements
in our hall, in consequence of our great numbers, which render
necessary to have two dinners every day. And our students and
                                                    is
their tutors have become so fastidious about the details of the
                                                             a it
dinner-table that we have made several changes to please them:

for example, the introduction of silver forks, silver castors, and the

like, and the establishment of hall butler to keep the servants in
;

    I

                                                aa
order and believe that now, in spite of our numbers, we have"
very comfortable and civilized dinner-table. But there among

young men so herding together great disposition to complain about

                                                                                Fri

422 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1861.

such matters, if it be only to seem fine in one another's eyes. Talk

Iing of university arrangements, have a letter from Matteucci at

ITurin, asking advice as to how they may best organize their Uni
versity there.  suppose he has written to many persons on the
I Isame subject; perhaps to you. do not know that can refer you

to any book which gives any account of any recent changes at Cam

bridge. Indeed there have been very few; for we do what we can to

make the new statutes conform to the old usages. The main changes

are in the tenure of fellowships at the smaller Colleges, and in the

establishment of minor scholarships, to be obtained by competitive

examination on`beginning residence--an improvement which we

introduced in anticipation of the Commissioners. Our moral and

natural sciences triposes, corresponding to the new Schools at

Oxford, have not yet become very effective; but we have made a

I Igood organization for them.
        did not, when was in London, hear anything definite about

Graham's colloidl condition. It is too absurd to see how the Lou

doners wrangle against your word viscous, as- if there were some

deadly heresy involved in it. But you need not fear those
Ifwranglers.
                they establish a colloid condition, nobody except

persons very obstinately prejudiced will be able to deny a viscous

condition.

                          in in s a

IWe shall stay here till the beginning of August, and then,

think, go to Spa for a short time, and perhaps to Vienna, mainly

Ito see the new Alpine Railway to Trieste, which, am told, is a

wonderful piece of engineering.
I am sorry to hear that you have had ground for uneasiness
Iabout your daughter's health.
                                 hope that your whole family is

now quite well and prosperous. Lady Affleck joins me in kindest

Iregards to you and Mrs Forbes, and am always,

                Yours most truly, W. WHEWELL.

    1 See the obituary notice of Thomas Graham in the Proceedings of the Royal
Society of London, Vol. 18.

                     MR GWATKIN. 1862.                          423

                                           Sn, Sept. 23, 1861.

MY DEAR QUETELET,
I expect to be at Brussels on Wednesday and Thursday

next, the 25th and 26th, and do not like to be so near you without
Itrying to see you.
                     have been a very bad correspondent to you,

but have never ceased to retain a lively recollection of your friend
Iship and a strong wish to see you again.
                                           am travelling with my
Iwife Lady Affleck, to whom was married three years ago, and we
Ishall, expect, arrive at the Hotel de l'Europe about 3 o'clock on
IfWednesday.
              you will let me know there when we can call upon
you, it will give me great pleasure to introduce my wife to you.

We have been travelling in Switzerland, and are on our way home.

I hope that you and your family are Well and prosperous.

Believe me, my dear Quetelet, yours with great regard,

                                           W. WHEWELL.

                     Curr Cornea, Lownsrorr, Jan. 4, 1862.

DEAR GWATKIN,

    I am always glad to hear from so old and valued a friend as

you; and am glad too that you approve of the omission of Bel

and the Dragon. You must not however lay too much stress upon

this omission, as if it was a deliberate act of the College. The

fact is that both Susannah and the Elders, and Bel have for some

years been exchanged for other lessons by the mere authority of

the Dean for the time being; he thinking that these, and especially

the former, are not edifying reading in a large body of young men.

IBut'the practice has not been very steady; and believe Bel was
Iread this year. think it very awkward for us, who have the daily

Ilessons read all the year round, that the Apocrypha holds so large

a place among the lessons. think that we should have the power

Ito change the lessons, if necessary, and, as have told you, our
Iofficers act as if they had this power. And in other ways should

be glad that our officiating ministers or our bishops had power to

Ivary other parts of our liturgy. But would not join any associa

tion for making changes; for any general scheme of doing so, if
Isuccessful, would,
                     think, lead to a number of extravagant and

424 MR G. CORNEWALL LEWIS. 1862.

I Iunwise proposals.
                 had rather, as have said, have power given

to vary the liturgy according to circumstances. There is a portion

of such power granted at present; and some of the bishops seem

not unwilling to extend it.

   I presume the book, which you mention as sent to me, is at
I I ICambridge, where shall see it when return to College. am at

present at the sea side in Suffolk. Many happy new years to you

from yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

                                          Tam. Lonen, CAMBRIDGE, Jan. 29, 1862.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE [CORNEWALL' LEwrs],
I Ihave received your History of Astronomy, and return
Iyou my best thanks for your kindness in sending it me.
                                                                                                             can
Itruly say that am astonished at the quantity of materials which

you have brought together, and at the skill with which you have

Iused them. It seems to me that if had had to read all the
Ibooks which you have read, should never have had the courage

to write my History of Astronomy, of which you are so kind as to
Ispeak.
         am going through your book with great interest.

         Believe me, my dear Sir George,

                 Yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

                                                   Tum. LODGE, Feb. 12, 1862.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE [CORNEWALL LEwrs],
I am much obliged to you for sending me Mr Brown's
Ilearned and convincing dissertation`.
                                                   sent for Robinson who is

of my College, and who is really a man of an enquiring mind;

Iand requested him to get his Tutor to look with him at the

books you refer to about the Oscan and Iguvian inscriptions.

He informs me that his friend Brown has followed exactly the

1 This refers to a jeu d'esprit by Sir G. G. Lewis with respect to some modern

restorations of  extinct languages.       The      tiJtolehainsnIemscrBiprotiwoniAunat,igAu.aM, .inEadgrio;  Bruttio
nuper reperla,   edidit et interpretatus                                                                     Christi
                                              est

quondam Alumnus. Oxom'i 1862. See the letters of...Sir G. C. Lewis, page 403.

               PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1862.           425

same methods as the learned authors of those books, and that

the result is no less certain.

   I Ihave given the copies which you sent to those who, think,

will appreciate them.

                        Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

               Lownsrorr, Aug. 2, 1862.

   MY DEAR FORBES,

      I ought sooner to have replied to your last letter; but it
Iinvited me to speak of our summer plans, and this could not do
I I Iwith any definiteness till now. Now fear must say that do

not think there is this year any prospect of our crossing to your

side of the border. Indeed it is not certain that we shall even

visit the north of England. My_wife has a great desire for a sniff

of Swiss air, and a look at your friend Mont Blanc once again.

Last year we barely had a glimpse of him, sleeping at his foot for

Ione night only. So think when we quit this place, which we

shall do in a few days, we shall go to the continent for about three

Iweeks. It cannot be much longer, for must be in Cambridge in

Ithe middle of September. The meeting of the British Association
there on Oct. 1 shortens our vacation sadly.       wish there were

any hope of our seeing you at the meeting. We should be most

glad to have you for our guest then, and your being there would

add much to my enjoyment of the meeting. The great pleasure

of such occasions is the presence of old friends at them. The

business of the meetings has fallen so much into the hands of

I Icomparatively new men, of whom know little, that do not take

any great interest in them, except on the ground of such old com
Ipanionships.
               believe we shall have several foreigners there, and,
I Ishould hope, something which may interest you. do not know
Iif the subject of glaciers is likely to turn up.
                                                   cannot but regret

that you did, not print the paper which you say you prepared for

the Athenoeum on that subject. It would be a useful contribution

to the history of the speculations about glaciers, and might save

some future historian of science from trouble and error. Might it

not be still read at the meeting? Even if you do not come,

426                 PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1862.

I should be glad to take charge of
I                                                                  and to do the subject such
      I

                        is

                      I

                                                     a it,
                                                               is

                                               I
                                                   I

                                                                             it
justice as can. The present race of glacier speculators began in

great ignorance of what had been done before, and are slow in

learning, but truth has her claims, and not to be given up.

        have been interested by the process of laying a telegraph

wire almost from my door to Holland. The point where leaves

the shore here only a quarter of mile hence.                       found the

operator at the station employed in testing, as he told me, the

conductivity of the wire.  was glad, for the sake of scientific pro

priety of language, to find that the word which recommended

years ago has made its way and established itself in the working

vocabulary of galvanism as an art.

      am very glad to hear that your plans for the improvement
I
of St Andrew's answer so well.      should much like to see your
   it                           I
College there, and especially your hall and your painted glass;I
     is I
and also may say, to see you in a position in which you find so

much to do and to interest you; which means, with you at least,

that       done well.

Lady A. bids me say that she has been much pleased with the

little printed paper about glaciers, but believe she will put in

my envelope note in which she will give you her own thanks
                 a

for it. Pray give my kindest regards to Mrs Forbes.

You have quoted pretty fancy of Longfellow's about the
                       a

glaciers.  I     suppose you know Byron's description, which                     is         re

markable for being more true physically than most of the prose

descriptions by men of science at that time.

                    The glacier's slow resistless mass

                    Glides onwards day by day,
                    But am he that bids pass
                    Or on its course delay
        is

                      II
                                                            1. it
It in `Manfred' think spoken by the Spirit of the Alps.

MY DEAR Forums,                                                    Cnmoumx, Aug. 21, 1862.

           forget whether told you that we intended to come here;
      it I          is

             is       I
but so           that here we are. We came, without any purpose
                                                                   I.

                                                                                      1.

                                                                                            of
      E    The quotation not quite accurate see Manfred, Act Scene
                                    ;

                      PROF. J. D. FORBES. 1862.                                  427

either extensive or scientific travelling, to gratify some recol

lections of the place which Lady Aflieck wanted to revive 0n the

spot, and shall return to Geneva on Saturday, having come here

on Monday. \Ve have had glorious weather, Mont Blanc and his

companions having been before us in broad sunshine almost the

whole of the time. As we came here with no special purpose of

Istudying your friends the glaciers, did not bring your book with

me, which would have added greatly to my pleasure in being here,

nor even restored my recollections of the subject by reading any

Ithing which you have written before came. But being here,

and looking at two or three glaciers, many of the points of dis--

Icussion have come back to me; and, though shall by my ques

tions let you see how dim and unstable my recollection of your

Ilessons       will not hesitate to ask you some questions, that your
         is,I
Ifanswers may revive and rectify my notions, such as they are.

the subject should come under discussion in October at Cambridge,
  should like to be tolerably accurate in my history and philosophy

on the subject.

   First, as to the form and direction of the crevasses. As seen

at the Mer ole Glace, they are, predominantly, convex to the upper

part of the glacier.     think you have noticed this and explained
         I?
it. Hopkins         isin the habit of saying that the direction of the
                   I
glaciers, according to his views and yours,                        quite different. Is
                                                                   is
this true Have any of the recent glacierists given any observa            a

tions on a large scale as to the direction which the crevasses really
         have seen none. It seems to me that the direction of
follow?

the crevasses, perpendicular to the curve which line on the ice

transverse to the glacier assumes by the glacier motion, follows at

once from the nature of the motion, without any discussion of

forces such as HOpkins introduces, which appear to me quite in

applicable to the case.

   Next, as to the ribboned structure.                             have not seen any
                         it                                                  it

                                  I
where clearly in some degree appears in the fragments in the
               ;

lower part of the Mer de Glace. Have any of the new glacierists

made any observations of this phenomenon on a large scale?

   have seen none. And there any difference in the direction of
I                        is

                                                                ?
the stripes on their theory and on yours You will see my igno

428 PROF. J. D. Forums. 1863.

Irance by the nature of my questions; but a few words from you
will, think, set me right.            `

There is a pamphlet giving an account of the discovery of the

remains of the guides who perished in 1820, and which were

found last year, as you predicted. You have probably seen this

pamphlet; but, as it is possible that you have not, my wife is

going to send it you. Some additional remains have been found
Ithis year.
             saw Dr Hamel in London a few weeks ago, the

principal author of the catastrophe.

     We shall be in Cambridge in ten days or thereabouts, so write

to me there, if you think that my questions deserve any answer.

Kindest regards to Mrs Forbes, in which Lady A. joins, and

to you.

             Believe me, yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

     DO you hold that there is any other leading direction of the

crevasses besides the one transverse to the glacier? It seems to

me that something of the kind is shown by the aspect of the
terminal part of a glacier, and by the pyramids into which the

                                                                                                                                                      '

ice runs.

                                      C. C. Lownsrorr, Jan. 28, 1863.

MY DEAR FORBES,

        It was a great pleasure to me to receive your letter.

I too had been, ever since the new year began, meditating a letter

to you to convey good wishes and kind recollections, such as are

suitable to such a season. As years go on, old friends become

more and more valued, and it becomes more and more natural to
Iexpress our value for them.
Iof your family interests.           was pleased and interested to hear

                            too, though with no sons of my own,

have some experience of the difficulty of finding a career, as the

         it,
                    a
French call for young men.

                            as is
                                      as
I    But am quite seriously of opinion that an English Univera
sity Education of little or no use to man who has that only
to depend on, except he clever enough to obtain a Fellowship.s
             is

                         in

                            is
                                  s

            SIR CHARLES LYELL. 1863.              429

I' am very glad that your College affairs are going on to your
Iliking.
          do not think that our Commissioners have done us

much harm; but they have done us some; and they have failed
I Ialtogether of the good they might have done.
                                                  dare say shall
Ifind your Lecture at Cambridge when go there, which will be
Inext Tuesday.
                meant my Lectures to be a sort of new-year's
Ioffering to you, and intended, as have said, to write and tell you

so. They were delivered to the Prince of Wales at his father's

I Irequest, as have said in the Preface. The last two Lectures,

think, are important and new to the literature of the subject as

generally read--though their novelty is not mine, but my dear

friend`Jones's. The doctrines seem to me demonstrably right.

                Tum. Lonon, CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 28, 1863.

MY DEAR SIR CHARLES [LYELL],

I am reading your book on the Antiquity of Man, as all
the world has done or is doing; and, like most of your readers, '
Iam deriving great pleasure from the perusal.
                                                  am especially

delighted with your Chapter 23, On the Comparison of the
Development of Languages and of Species. The comparison

appears to me admirably adapted to explain the difficulties and

Ithe solutions of the one theory by the other. You may, perhaps,

recollect, that had used the relation of the two sciences, geology

and glossology, to explainmy notions of the structure and pro

Igress of my "paleetiological sciences," though do not mean that
I have in any degree anticipated your arguments.
ISo far as
                collect from your expressions, you would not
Idisagree with me in the main conclusion which then drew,

and which still seems to me to stand: that in all these sciences

no natural`beginning is discoverable, no origin homogeneous with

the known course of events. We can in many of these sciences
go 'far back, and exclude many suppositions, but we cannot find

an origin to which all these lines converge, though we always

seem to be approaching to it.                                 '

I am much interested too in what you say about the mental

development of man. Perhaps it might be pursued further, by

.W-v---s~~---~ '- ' ~~-~----~~~~--»~~--------_,.W ~...----- .1

430 sm CHARLES LYELL. 1863.

tracing in a definite way some of the steps of which the secular

mental development of man consists: for, according to my
'
              the formation of new sciences has been accompanied
 philosophy,

by the development of new ideas in modern times; and those

can never fully appreciate man's mental development who go

spinning round and round the ancient starting places of geome

Itrical and arithmetical truth. This, however, have tried to

work out in my Philosophy of Discovery, and may perhaps have
something more to say upon it. How strikingly do your specu
lations illustrate and extend Cuvier's remark, that the geologist
is an antiquary of a new order! Believe me, dear Sir Charles,

                       Yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

                             THE Arnnnmmu, May 14, 1863.

   MY DEAR Sin CnARLEs [LYELL],

      I Ifind that did not give you a reference to the part of my
IPhilosophy to which especially wished to direct your attention--

the part about languages. You will find it in Book X. of the

Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, and in the corresponding

part of the History of Scientific Ideas, a subsequent form of the

same work`.

   IIn Chapter II. Arts. 7 and 15 of that Book, have spoken of

the Classification of Languages, and of the causes by which

Languages are affected as they are derived from each other:
Iand in Chapter Iv. Art. 7, have tried to shew that Science tells
Ius nothing about creation.
                             have also urged there the duty

of mutual forbearance between the cultivators of science and the

upholders of tradition; but this is a more general topic. Believe

me, dear Sir Charles,

                       Yours faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

    1 Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, second edition, Vol. II. page 661 ; History
of Scientific Ideas, Vol. 1:. page 280.

                  sm CHARLES LYELL. 1863.  431

                                 TRIN. Lonan, June 5, 1863.

MY DEAR SIR CHARLES [LYELL],

I was interested by your remarks on the passage of my
I I Iworks to which had referred you.
                                 may say at once that did
Inot conceive that had in any way anticipated you in arguments
Idrawn from Glossology and Geology. Only was struck and

pleased with the way in which you had illustrated the arguments

in the one subject by those in the other. Many persons will see

the opposition of theoretical views more clearly in the case of

Ilanguages than of strata. But conceded that these parallel

arguments, though they may be useful and striking in stating

the question, are not of much weight in deciding it. There still

remains the opposition between the catastrophist and uniformi

I Itarian view as formerly stated it. was aware that you inclined
Ito uniformitarian views ; do not see that much has been added

lately in defence of them. The past history of man has been

made more extensive. Be it so. But we have always the whole

of time at our disposal, and therefore nothing is gained this way.
You say you can conceive all the changes which have produced

the existing languages to have proceeded by slow gradations.
But there has been nothing like uniformity in this matter. The

English language was formed in less than a century from the

IConquest, and has undergone little essential change since.
  concede that it has lasted 1000 years. The Greek has lasted

Imuch longer, including its present revival. You say that con

sider the past changes which have altered languages to have been
Iof an order superior to those which operate at present.
                                                             do

so, because my masters in the science of languages, Pritchard and

the like, do so.                 `'

It seems to me that all that has been recently urged in favour

of the uniformitarian scheme merely amounts to this: that we

can interpolate steps so as to make a gradual transition from any

one condition to any other--either of strata or of speech; and

when you have got any change, however small, you say multiply
Ithis by 10000 cycles and you have the observed change. It does
not appear to me that it is so.  think that no numerical multi

               \-                              v __ ww--r" ~

432 MR DE MORGAN. 1863.

plication of changes now in progress could produce the past
I Ichanges; and think have all the philologers with me. But,
I Ias have said, rather regard this as an illustration than an

Iargument. Only, as there must have been an origin, do not see
Iwhy we should avoid Indications of it in the facts.
                                                                                            have a
Igreat deal more to say, but fear we should not agree. Thanks

for your attention.

                        Yours faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

                                      TBXN. Lonon, Ap. 10, 1863.

   MY DEAR SIR [MR DE MORGAN],

       I agree with you about the state of Aristotle's text: per
Ihaps go further than you do. In all cardinal passages it
Irequires emendation: as in the passage about Induction have
Ishewn. And hold that any emendation, which makes sense, is

better than the reading of 100 MSS., which makes nonsense.

I wonder what sense the translators and commentators, who

accepted invisible voice as an illustration of the Infinite, attached
to the words`. Your dépw-rov is much better, though even so,

I do not see how the indefinite voice is an example of the In_

finite. However, it is an example of a thing indefinite, and so

far gives the passage a meaning. It seems to me that endless

confusion on this subject arises from using the adjective Infinite
without a substantive. You ask--that
                                      they ask us--to define
               I
                   I
                                    I

                                                                        is,

                                                              it

                                                                                    is
the Infinite.  reply, asking again Infinite what? Infinite space

time, number, &c. can define, but do not know anything about
the Infinite, without such application. But                                             plain that

Aristotle and his modern followers are aiming at some indefi~

nite Infinite, and so make confusion. Still greater confusion

arises from talking of the Absolute: any assertion about must
"I_ be foolish nonsense, must amount to this:                                               it
                                               assert that of that
                                                                                                    ;
of which nothing can be asserted or denied."   IIIdo not think

we have any Aristotelian metaphysicians here, so cannot help

you to any Cambridge opinion on the subject.                      have various

       Mr De Morgan referred to passage in the Metaphysica, Lib.1a                      x.  Cap. x see
also the Physic. Auscult., Lib. in. Gap. IV._

        PROFESSOR BROWN. 1863.      433

translations and commentators, French and German; but they
do not accept my first postulate--that the duty Of a translator

is to make sense at any rate, the author's sense if he can.
    In the passage of Aristotle everything depends upon the

Iword duému, and do not see that it throws much light on the

(i'vretpov. Do you think that it helps our conceptions much ?

                       Believe me, yours infinitely and indefinitely,

                                                                         W. WHEWELL.

     [The next letter was addressed to the Rev. Dr D. Brown,
Professor of Theology in the Free Church College, Aberdeen]

        TRINITY Lonom, Oct. 26, 1863.

   DEAR SIR,

       I had the pleasure of receiving your letter from my nephew,

Julius Elliott, on the subject Of my little volume Of extracts

entitled "Indications of the Creator," which you kindly inform
Ime you refer to in your Lectures on Natural Theology.
                                                        am

glad that you think the book fit to be adduced in reference to

that great argument. It was not intended as a treatise on that

subject, as you see from its composition; and to my mind the

effect of the views there taken has always been more impressive

from being collateral results of other speculations, than they would

have been, if they had been the direct purpose Of my specula

Itions. And may say that the recent discussions which have

taken place in geology and zoology do not appear to me to have,

materially affected the force of the arguments there delivered.

It still appears to me that in tracing the history of the world

backwards, so far as the palaetiological sciences enable us to do
so, all the lines of connexion stop short of a beginninglexplicable
by natural causes; and the absence of any conceivable natural

beginning leaves room for, and requires, a supernatural origin.
Nor do Mr Darwin's speculations alter this result. For when

he has accumulated a vast array of hypotheses, still there is an
inexplicable gap at the beginning Of his series. To which is to

w. II.                          28

434 PROEEssOR BROWN. 1863.

be added, that most of his hypotheses are quite unproved by

fact. We can no more adduce an example of a new species,

generated in the way which his hypotheses suppose, than Cuvier

could. He is still obliged to allow that the existing species of

domestic animals are the 'same as they were at the time of man's

earliest history. And though the advocates of uniformitarian

doctrines in geology go on repeating their assertions, and trying

Ito explain all difficulties by the assumption of additional myriads

of ages, find that the best and most temperate geologists still

hold the belief that great catastrophes must have taken place;
Iand do not think that the state of the controversy on that
Isubject is really affected permanently.
                                          still think that what
I have written is a just representation of the question between

the two doctrines.

   I Ido not think therefore that could be of any service to

Ithe cause by any new writing on the subject at present. One
merit of what have written        a       may venture to say so,
                                     is,

                                     iIf
that        was not written with  controversial purpose. And  it
I
     itstill seems to me to apply to most of the questions now under
           a
discussion. A person who ventures into the controversies which

are at present agitated ought to have a great deal of specific

knowledge, which do not possess. Any attempt on my part
                   I
                       I
to give       summary of the argument would be to me Very un

satisfactory, because, as have said, the impressiveness of those

views to my mind arises from their being not the propositions

of a system of doctrines, but the corollaries of the history and

philosophy of science.                                '

      may mention that, in the last edition of my History of the

Inductive Sciences (1857), Vol. III., have made some additional
                           if

                                I
remarks on Morphology, and on Final Causes, which should
                                          I
insert in the "Indications," an opportunity should occur: andII

                                                   I
that in the "Philosophy of Discovery" (1860) have given a.
Chapter on Man's knowledge of God, where have given such

theological views as appear to me to result from the study of

science. The manner in which you refer to what have written

on such subjects will, hope, excuse me for thus noticing my
                        I

own performances.

           PROF. J. D. ronnns. 1864.                                                           435

I IAgain thanking you for your favourable judgment of what
   have written, am, dear Sir,
                              Your very faithful Servant, W. WHEWELL.

                 Curr COTTAGE, Lowrzsrorr, Jan. 4, 1864.

MY DEAR FORBES,

It was a great pleasure to me to receive your Christmas

greeting. In return allow me to wish you and Mrs Forbes and

Iall your family a happy new year and many more after this.
   think with much gratification of the long continuance of our
Ifriendship: feel very strongly that we cling to old friends the
Imore closely, the fewer they become. From you besides always
Ilearn so much.
                 read your article on the antiquity of man in
Ithe Edinburgh without knowing that it was yours; and have
I Isince read it over again, and think still more strongly, what

thought before, that it is the best critique of Lyell's book which

I have seen. The evidence of the facts recently under discussion

is most clearly given, and is completed by independent reading,

and the case is summed up in a calm, impartial and judicial
Imanner: in your judicial manner am disposed to say; for
I always admire your surveys of scientific questions for that
Iquality.
           have myself taken no share in the discussions on the
Iantiquity of man; but will not conceal from you that the course
Iof speculation on this point has somewhat troubled me.
                                                                                               can

not see without some regrets the clear definite line, which used

to mark the commencement of the human period of the earth's

history, made obscure and doubtful. There was something in

the aspect of the subject, as Cuvier left which was very satis
it

     is

                                                it

                                                                   is it,

                                                                  it is

                                                                                        is is
factory to those who wished to reconcile the providential with

the. scientific history of the world, and this aspect                                          now no
longer so universally acknowledged. It true that a recon

ciliation of the scientific with the religious view still possible,

but not so clear and striking as was. But weakness
to regret this; and no doubt another generation will find some

way of looking at the matter which will satisfy religious men.

436 MR COCHRANE. 1864.

I should be glad to see my way to this view, and am hoping to

do so soon.

We went abroad during the summer to various parts of

IGermany, Italy, and Switzerland. Our farthest point was Venice;

and think the most remarkable thing we saw was the railroad

over the Sommering Pass, a beautiful piece of engineering

through a beautiful country. The greater part of our travels

Iwas employed in my wife and me seeing together what we had

before seen separate; but Venice was new to me, and rejoiced

much to see it. We had however very hot weather there and

Very sanguinary mosquitoes. We ended our tour by a visit to

Switzerland; not, however, trying to make a near acquaintance

with any of your friends, the glaciers. Our greatest achievement

(a Very cockney exploit!) was our going to the top of the Rigi
for a night; for which we were rewarded with a beautiful sun
rise. On the top of the Pilatus opposite to us we saw a crowd

of sightseers as wise as ourselves, who issued from their hotel

to worship the sun-rise, as we did from ours. Since our return

to Cambridge we have had the Airys with us for a week. They

told us of their Scottish tour and of their disappointment in not

seeing you. Airy as you say, an excellent mathematical workis,
man, and his memoir on the strains of a beam a good example
of his skill. Do you recollect a suggestion of Brewster's, when
                                                 s
                                                        is

                                                                                in

                                                                                             a
he discovered the dipolarizing structure of glass under strain--

that we might in this way see the distribution of strains

beam, by making glass model?a                 e
                                           s
                 as

                                    am, my dear Forbes,I
             Always truly and affectionately yours, W. WHEWELL.

                                                 Tam. Lemur, Dec. 12, 1864.

MY DEAR SIR [MR COCHRANE],

was glad to hear that your Homer was still making
I

      I

             it

                         it, I
                                                                  it
                                                         I
progress, and obliged to you for sending me a specimen of it.

return to you, and hope have not kept too long.                       have

no remarks to make upon  except some of the same kind as

PROF. J. n. FORBES. 1865.                  437

I Imade on the earlier part. In some cases think still that

the accent is forced, which is a bad fault in hexameters, worse

than in any other kind of verse, because it affords food and

pretext to the popular prejudice against hexameters. You may

see in Lord Derby's preface that he has taken up this prejudice.
                               *-- s a a

IAs to this version of his, agree with you entirely. It is a

good blank verse version, but on the whole certainly not better
Ithan Cowper's, and in some parts very decidedly worse.
                                                         do

not think in that verse they will be able to produce a better
J.translation than Cowper's. Sir
                                  Herschel is going on with
Ihis, and has completed the twelfth Book.
                                           do not know if he

has got any further. His translation both as to metre, phrase

ology, and spirit, seems to me excellent. He has subjected the

fidelity of his version to a severe test, by printing in Italics

every word which is not found in the original. It is curious

I Ito see how few he has managed to make these.
     As have said, fear that there is still a general and very

Istupid prejudice against English hexameters, but hope such

examples of them as yours and Herschel's translations of Homer
will finally prevail over this impatient bigotry.

       I am, my dear Sir, yours very faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

MY DEAR FORBES,                        Tram. Loncn, Jan. 2, 1865.

    IIt is long since heard  Iof you, so gladly take the

occasion of the new year to ask news of you, and to give you

my best good wishes as suits the time.  IMay the year and many
years more bring to you all blessings!    hope that St Andrew's

continues to agree with you, and that you have had comfort and
success in introducing the improvements which you contem

plated a little while ago. We have been going on here much

as usual. Our Commissioners who gave us our new code of statutes

tried to provide an annual event for us. They appointed an

annual college meeting of all the Fellows, at which any one

might propose any change in the mode of conducting the College.

438 MR DE MORGAN. '1865.

As might be expected, some of our'younger Fellows could not
resist the temptation to make experiments by changing our

habits. Last year it was proposed to alter the mode of pro
viding for our Sizars. This year it was proposed to abOlish the

order of Fellow Commoners. This latter proposal was negatived

Iby a very large majority, which was a great satisfaction to me,

and will, hope, keep us quiet for some time to come. The

proposition about Sizars was negatived by a sufficient majority;

but our Seniors thought it better to do what was asked for, as
it was only a matter Of expense, not of principle. The Oxford

people are more prone to change than we are. They have

abolished their Gentlemen Commoners at all their Colleges ex

Icept two; but then these two are Christ Church and St John's.
We have a great deal of building going on here.  wish you

could see our New Museums and Lecture rooms, which supply

Ia want long felt here, and will, hope, give new vigour to our

professorial system. Pray give my best wishes to Mrs Forbes
Ifor herself and her family.
                              hope your children are all pros

Ipering to your heart's content. My wife joins me in every good

wish and kind regard, and am always

`.  Most truly yours, W. WHEWELL.

         . Tram. Loner, Nov. 7, 1865.

   MY DEAR Sm [MR DE MORGAN],

       I believe you are quite right "in your notions as to the
Iancient practice of this College, and of other Colleges, as sup--

pose. Pupils were admitted under many of the Fellows, perhaps
under all, the consent of the Master being always had. The
admissions were first limited to two sides in the last century,
Jones of Trinity being by his popularity and his extensive con

Inexions the cause of the limitation. This was repeatedly told
Iby the late Bishop Monk, who had examined this point of College

history. But in the Admission Book find that, though the
great majority of admissions are under Jones from 1787, they
are almost in as great a majority under Collier, and under Atwood

and Postlethwaite, as under Jones afterwards. The relation, as

                    MR COCHRANE. 1866.                          439

you say, was rather parental than tutorial. Indeed we must

recollect. that there were'no examinations to prepare for at that

time, and a general superintendence of the pupil's reading was

probably all that was needed. Still the Master did sometimes
take pupils in some especial way. When it was intended that

the Duke of Gloucester, Queen Anne's son, should go to Trinity
ICollege, he was to lodge with Dr Bentley. So says Monk `.
                                                                   am

not certain that the late Duke of Gloucester, when an under

Igraduate at the college, had rooms at the Lodge, but think it is

not unlikely.

I You will find in my life of Barrow that Barrow had pupils;
  suppose most of the resident Fellows had. Believe me

                    Yours very truly, W. WHEWELL.

                                        Tnm. LODGE, Jan. 7, 1866.

DEAR SIR [MR COCHRANE],

    I was glad to hear from you again, and to learn that you

have completed your translation of the Iliad; for it is some
I Ithing to have accomplished so great a task.
                                        am afraid

cannot suggest any course which will find a publisher for it.

Sir John Herschel has finished his Iliad, and is in the same

difficulty as yourself, for the publishers are very shy both of
Iliads and of hexameters at present.

   I Iwill not conceal from you that think Herschel's the best
I Itranslation which have seen, and that hope it will be pub--

Ilished sooner or later.                                                                              _
         have written nothing of late.
                                        The past year has been

Idarkened to me by the greatest of domestic calamities--the loss
of a beloved wife.  hope no heavy sorrow has fallen upon you.

               I am, dear Sir, yours faithfully, W. WHEWELL.

1 See Monk's Life of Bentley, Vol. 1. pages 145 and 200.

                    THE END.

CAMBRIDGE: PRINTED BY 0. J. CLAY, M-A. AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS





