Memoir and correspondence of Caroline Herschel. By Mrs. John Herschel.
With portraits.

Herschel, John, Mrs., d. 1876.
London, J. Murray, 1876.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015012914555

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
36
I
CAROLINE HERSCHEL
!
JJur?C Ct^trji/^-L-e,  i^Leyt-.
 MEMOIR AND CORRESPONDENCE

                                                                 OF

CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

         " MRS. JOHN HERSCHEL.'

                           WITH PORTRAITS.

                              LONDON :

   JOHN HURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                              187G.
                           [HfjlU of Translaiimi Reserval.]
              INTRODUCTION.

   Familiar to all as is the name this volume bears,
it is not without hesitation that the following pages

are given to the world. To subject the memorials of
a deeply earnest life to the eyes of a generation over
crowded with books, raises a certain amount of

diffidence.

   Of Caroline Herschel herself most people will plead

ignorance without feeling ashamed, and yet may we
not assert that Caroline Herschel is well worth

knowing.

Great men and great causes have always some

helper of whom the outside world knows but little.

There always  is,  and always has been, some human

being in whose life their roots have been nourished.

Sometimes these helpers have been men, sometimes

they have been women, who have given themselves to

help and to strengthen those called upon to be leaders

and workers, inspiring them with courage, keeping

faith in their own idea alive, in days of darkness,

          When all the world seems adverse to desert.

   These helpers and sustainers, men or women, have

all the same quality in common--absolute devotion and
vi Introduction.

unwavering faith in the individual or in the cause.
Seeking nothing for themselves, thinking nothing of
themselves, they have all an intense power of sym
pathy, a noble love of giving themselves for the ser
vice of others, which enables them to transfuse the
force of their own personality into the object to which
they dedicate their powers.

   Of this noble company of unknown helpers Caroline

Herschel was one.
    She stood beside her brother, William Herschel,

sharing his labours, helping his life. In the days when

he gave up a lucrative career that he might devote

himself to astronomy, it was owing to her thrift and
care that he was not harassed by the rankling vexa
tions of money matters. She had been his helper and
assistant in the days when he was a leading musician ;

she became his helper and assistant when he gave him

self up to astronomy. By sheer force of will and devoted
affection, she learned enough of mathematics and of
methods of calculation, which to those unlearned seem
mysteries, to be able to commit to writing the results of
his researches. She became his assistant in the work

shop ; she helped him to grind and polish his mirrors ;
she stood beside his telescope in the nights of mid
winter, to write down his observations, when the very
ink was frozen in the bottle. She kept him alive by her
care ; thinking nothing of herself, she lived for him.
She loved him, and believed in him, and helped him,
Introduction.  vii

with all her heart and with all her strength. She
might have become a distinguished woman on her
own account, for with the "seven-foot Newtonian
sweeper " given to her by her brother, she discovered
eight comets first and last. But the pleasure of seek
ing and finding for herself was scarcely tasted. She
"minded the heavens" for her brother ; she worked for
him, not for herself, and the unconscious self-denial
with which she gave up her own pleasure in the
use of her " sweeper," is not the least beautiful
feature in her life. She must have been witty and
amusing, to judge from her books of " Recollections."
When past eighty, she wrote what she called " a little

history of my life from 1772 -- 1778 " for" her nephew,

Sir John Herschel, the son of her brother William,-
that he might know something of his excellent grand
parents, as well as of the immense difficulties which

his father had to surmount in his life and labours. It

was not to tell about herself, but of others, that she

wrote them. There is not any good biography of Sir
William Herschel, and the incidental revelations of
him in these Recollections are valuable. They show
how well he deserved the love and devotion she

rendered to him. Great as were his achievements in

science, and his genius, they were borne up and
ennobled by the beauty and worth of his own inner

life.

   These memorials of his father and his aunt were
viii Introduction.

much valued by Sir John Hcrschel, and they are
carefully preserved by the family along with her
letters. The perusal of them is like reading of another
world. The glimpses of the life of a soldier's family
in Hanover at the time the Seven Years' War was

going on are very touching. Both father and mother
must have been remarkable persons, and the sterling
quality of character developed in William and Caroline

Herschel was evidently derived from them. All the

family seem to have been endowed with something
like touches of genius, but William and Caroline were
the only two who had the strong back-bone of per
severance and high principle which made genius in
them fulfil its perfect work.

   Her own recollections go back to the Great Earth
quake at Lisbon ; she lived through the American
War, the old French Revolution, the rise and fall of
Napoleon, and all manner of lesser events and wars.
She saw all the improvements and inventions, from
the lumbering post waggon in which she made her
first journey from Hanover, to the railroads and
electric telegraphs which have intersected all Europe,
for she lived well down into the reign of Victoria.
But her work of " minding the heavens " with her
brother engrossed all her thoughts, and she scarcely
mentions any public event.

    Her own astronomical labours were remarkable, and
in her later life she met with honour and recognition
                               Introduction.  ix

from learned men and learned societies ; but her
Idominant idea was always the same -- " am nothing,
I I II have done nothing ; all am, all know, owe
Ito my brother.
                               am only the tool which he shaped
to his use-- a well- trained puppy- dog would have

done as much." Every word said in her own praise

seemed to be so much taken away from the honour

due to her brother. She had lived so many years in

companionship with a truly great man, and in the

presence of the unfathomable depths of the starry

heavens, that praise of herself seemed childish

exaggeration.

   The Letters and Recollections contained in this

volume will show what she really was. She would
have been very augry if she could have foreseen their
publication, yet, in consideration of the great interest

they possess, we hope to be justified for making
known to the world such an example of self-sacrifice

and perseverance under difficulties.

   The spelling has been modernised,--an old lady

who had discovered eight comets might be allowed

to spell in her own way ; but it is pleasanter to read

what is written in an accustomed manner. A word

has been altered occasionally where the sense required
    otherwise no change has been made, and as little

has been added as was possible, and only with the
view of giving slight connecting thread of narrative.

  If these Recollections convey as much pleasure
it,

                            a
X Introduction.

to the readers of them as they have given to the
Editor, they will feel that they have gained another
friend in Caroline Lucretia Herschel.

        December, 1875.

NOTE.

When past ninety a second memoir was undertaken, and

in order to encourage her to continue it  her  .  n"iecNeo,w,Lamdyy
Herschel, wrote to her as follows : -- .
                                          ..

dearest aunt, you must let me make an earnest petition

to you, and that is, that you will go on with your memoir

Iuntil you leave England and take up your residence in

Hanover. How can tell you how much my heart is set

Iupon the accomplishment of this work ? . . . . You know

you cannot be idle while you live. But indeed, if could

tell you the influence which a short account by a stranger

of your labours with your dear Brother had upon me when

a child, and of my choosing you (then so unknown to me)
as my guiding star and example, you would understand how
the possession of such a record by your own hand would

make me almost believe in auguries and presentiments, and

perhaps inspire some future generations more worthily, as

the record would be more genuine."

                                    August 9, 1841.

   May we not echo this hope, and feel indeed that " she

BEING DEAD YET SPEAKETH."

                                                                M. C. H.
CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

EARLY LIFE IN HANOVER -- MUSICAL TALENTS OF HER BROTHER WIL          PaGB
      LIAM -- MARRIAGE OF HER SISTER --THE REGIMENT ORDERED TO              1
      ENGLAND --HER FATHER'S INDUSTRY --TYPHUS FEVER-- CONFIRMA
      TION --DEATH OF FATHER--ACCOMPANIES WILLIAM TO ENGLAND .

                          CHAPTER II.                                29

LIFE IN BATH-- HEIMWEHE--THE MIGHTY TELESCOPE-- LAST PERFORM
      ANCE IN PUBLIC --CASTING THE GREAT MIRROR --WILLIAM HBRSCHEL
      GOES TO LONDON -- MADE ROYAL ASTRONOMER -- BEMOVAL TO
      DATCHET -- ACCIDENTS -- GRANT OF £2,000 -- LIFE AT SLOUGH --
       LETTERS FROM HANOVER- -DISCOVERY OF A COMET . . . .

                        CHAPTER III.                                 78

WILLIAM HEESCHEL'S MARRIAGE-- DISCOVERY OF THE EIGHTH COMET-
      EXTRACTS FROM DAY-BOOK AND DIARY --VISIT TO BATH -- RETURN
      TO SLOUGH -- RESIDES AT UPTON-- ILLNESS-- FEAR OF BLINDNESS .

                              CHAPTER IV.                            118

EXTRACTS FROM DIARY -- WILLIAM HEUSCHEL KNIGHTED -- FAILING
     HEALTH -- HER BROTHER'S PORTRAIT -- DEATH OF ALEXANDER --
     DEATH OF SIR WILLIAM -- HER RETURN TO HANOVER -- RECOL

      LECTIONS WRITTEN AT HANOVER

                              CHAPTER V.

RETROSPECTION --LIFE IN HANOVER --HER HUMILITY --HER W0RK8 --

      MADE HON. MEMBER OF THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY
xii Contents.

-- HER SWEEPINGS -- BLANK IN HER LIFE AT HANOVER -- LETTERS           PAGE
TO LADY HERSCHEL -- LETTERS BETWEEN HER AND HER NErHEW                  141
--VISIT FROM HER NEPHEW -- FINISHES HER CATALOGUE OF THE

NEBULA

CHAPTER VI.

LIFE IN HANOVER CONTINUED -- LETTERS BETWEEN HER AND HER              196
      NEPHEW-- HER WILL--FIRST CHAPTER OF HER HISTORY-- RECEIVES

      THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY -- FEAR
      FUL STORM --HER PORTRAIT --HER NEPHEW'S MARRIAGE-- PREPA
      RATION FOR HER DEATH-- PAOANINI --HER NEPHEW KNIGHTED --
      LADY HERSCHEL'S DEATH -- RETROSPECTION

CHAPTER VII.

LETTERS FROM THE CAPE -- HON. MEMBER OF THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL        262
      SOCIETY -- CATALOGUE OF OMITTED STARS-- LETTERS -- SATURN AND
      HIS SIXTH SATELLITE -- HER NEPHEW'S VISIT -- HON. MEMBER OF
      THE ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY-- EXTRACTS FROM DAY-BOOK -- ANEC
      DOTE OF THE OLD TELESCOPE -- CHRISTMAS IN HANOVER --GOLD
      MEDAL FROM THE KING OF PRUSSIA -- DECLINING STRENGTH --

       DEATH-- FUNERAL

TO BINDER.

Portrait of Caroline Heruchel. Frvntixpicce.          by Abbott,  in
Portrait of Sir William Herschcl, after the original

   the National Portrait Gallery, to face p. 118.
Herschel's Forty-foot Telescope, to face p. 29.
    CAEOLINE HEKSCHEL.

                          CHAPTER I.

            RECOLLECTIONS OF EARLY LIFE IN HANOVER.

   Caroline Lucretia Herschel was born at Han

over on the 16th of March, 1750. She was the eighth
child and fourth daughter of Isaac Herschel, by Anna
Use Moritzen, to whom he was married in August,
1732. The family consisted of ten children, four of
whom died in early childhood.

   A memorandum in the handwriting of Isaac

Herschel, transcribed by his daughter in the original
German at the beginning of her Recollections, traces
the family back to the early part of the seventeenth

century, about which time, it appears that three

brothers Herschel left Moravia on account of their re
ligion (which was Protestant), and became possessors of
land in Saxony. One of these brothers, Hans, was a
brewer at Pirna, a little town two miles from Dresden,
and the father of two sons, one of whom, Abraham by
name, was born in 1651, was the father of the above-
mentioned Isaac, and the grandfather of Caroline
2  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1675-1731.

Lucretia Herschel. Abraham Herschel was employed ina
              it,
 the royal gardens at Dresden, he received commissions
from various quarters on account of hip. taste and skill;

as a landscape gardener. Of his four children, Euse-
bius, the eldest, appears to have kept up little or no in
tercourse with his family after the father's death in 1 71 8.

The second child, Apollonia, married a landed proprie
tor, Herr von Thiimer. Benjamin, the second son, died
in his third year ; and Isaac, the youngest, was born
 14th of January, 1707, and was thus an orphan at
the early age of eleven years. His parents wished
him to be a gardener like his father, but a passionate
love of music led him to take every opportunity of

practising on the violin, besides studying music under
a hautboy-player in the royal band. "When he was
about one and twenty he resolved to seek his fortune,
and went to Berlin, where the style of hautboy play
ing was so little to his taste that he soon left and
went to Potsdam, where he studied for year under

the celebrated Cappell Meister Pabr'ich, the mean*
for so doing being supplied by his mother and sister
his brother, as he quaintly remarks, contenting him
self with writing him letters in praise of the virtue

of economy! In July, 1731, he went to Brunswick,,
and in August to Hanover, where he at once obtained
an engagement as hautboy-player in the band of the
Guards, and in the August following he married aa

above stated.
ftup. i.]  Early Recollections.                    3

   The family group to which Miss Heri,hel's auto
biography introduces us consisted of--

   1. Sophia Elizabeth, born in 1733. [Afterwards
Mrs. Griesbach.]

   2. Henry Anton Jacob, born 20th November, 1734.
   (4) 3. Frederic William, born 15th November, 1738.
   (6) 4. John Alexander, born 13th November,

1745.

    (8) 5. Carolina Lucretia, born 16th March, 1750;
and

   (10) 6. The little Dietrich, born 13th September,

1755.

    With the exception of frequent absences from

home which attendance on a regiment made inevit
able, the family life went on smoothly enough for
some years, the father taking every opportunity,
when at home, to cultivate the musical talents of
his sons, who depended for the ordinary routine of
education on the garrison school, to which all the
children went from the age of two to fourteen.

Here the splendid talents of William early dis

played themselves, and the master confessed that the
pupil had soon got beyond his teacher. Although
four years younger than Jacob, when the two brothers
had lessons in French, the younger had mastered the
language in half the time needed by the elder, and
he in some measure satisfied his eager desire for know

                                                                                                                                  B2
4  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.         [1743-1753.

ledge by attending out of school hours to learn all
that his master could teach of Latin and arithmetic.
At fourteen he was an excellent performer both on

the oboe and violin.

    The first serious calamity recorded was the irrepar
able injury caused to the fathers health by the Lard-
ships of war. After the battle of Dettingen (June
16th, 1743) the troops remained all night on the field,
which was soaked by heavy rains. The unfortunate
bandmaster lay in a wet furrow, which caused a
complete loss of the use of his limbs for some time,
and left him with an impaired constitution and an

asthmatical affection which afflicted him to the end

of his life. During the dark times of the Seven
Years' War, the little Caroline, then her mother's sole

companion, often heard this grievous trouble spoken

of, and the shadow of it cast a gloom over her childish
recollections, most of which are of a sombre character.
At three years old she was a deeply interested partici
pator in all the family concerns, and of that period she
writes :--

   " It must have been in 1753 when my brother [Jacob,

Iaged 19] was chosen organist to the new organ in the

garrison church ; for remember my mother taking me

Iwith her the first Sunday on its opening, and that before

she had time to shut the pew door, took fright at the

I Ibeginning of a preludium with a full accompaniment, so that
   flew out of church and home again.  also remember to
dip. i.]  Early Recollections.                     5

have seen my brother William confirmed in his new oboi-
sten uniform."

The next interesting event was the marriage of the

eldest daughter, who was living with a family at

Brunswick, and whom her sister says she had never seen

until she eame home to be married. The bridegroom,

Mr. Griesbach, also a musician in the Guard, found no

favour in the eyes of his sister-in-law, and it is evi

dently some satisfaction to her to have been told that

...her father never cordially approved the match," for
          he knew him at least to be but a very middling

musician, and this alone would have been enough for my

father's disapprobation."

Great preparations were made for

" providing and furnishing a habitation (which happened to

be in the same house where my parents lived), which they

did in as handsome a manner as their straitened income

would allow, and to which my dear brothers took delight in
Icontributing to the best of their ability.
                                             remember how
Idelighted was when they were showing me the pretty

framed pictures with which my brother William had decorated

his sister's room, and heard my mother relate afterwards,

that the brothers had taken two months' pay in advance for

the wedding entertainment. . . Though for stocking a family

with household linen my mother was prepared at all times,

as perhaps never a more diligent spinner was heard of ; but

to keep pace with the wishes of my dear brothers, by whom

my sister was, as well as by her parents, exceedingly

beloved -- the whole family were kept for a time in an
6  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1753-1755.

agreeable bustle to see that nothing that could give either
pleasure or comfort might be wanting in her future estab
lishment. . . . The fete (without which it would have

Ibeen scandalous in those days to get married) ended with a

ball, at which remember to have been dancing among the
rest without a partner."

   A little later, when war troubles broke up the

household, and the bride returned to her mother, we

arc told :

I" my sister was not of a very patient temper, and could not

be reconciled .to have children about her, and was mostly,

Iwhen not in school, sent with Alexander to play on the

walls or with the neighbour's children, in which seldom
could join, and often stood freezing on shore to see my
brother skating on the Stadtgraben (town ditch) till he chose
to go home. In short, there was no one who cared anything
about me."

    The earthquake which destroyed Lisbon on the 1st

November 1755, was strongly felt at Hanover, and
became closely associated in the poor little girl's mind
with the trials and troubles which shortly afterwards

fell upon the family. She says :--

I" One morning early was with my father and mother

Ialone in the room, the latter putting my clothes on, when

 all at once saw both standing aghast and speechless before
 me ; at the same time my brothers, my sister, and Griesbach
 came running in, all being panic-struck by the earthquake."

   For a little while the family enjoyed a peaceful
interval, during which the extraordinary proficiency of
Our. L]  Early Recollections.                                  7

his two eldest sons was a growing source of delight
to the father, whose utmost ambition was to see them

become accomplished musicians ; while the wider

flights of William met with his most cordial sym
pathy. The following passage is one of the very
few which reflect the brighter side of the picture :--

" My brothers were often introduced as solo performers
Iand assistants in the orchestra of the court, and
                                                    re
Imember that was frequently prevented from going to

sleep by the lively criticism on music on coming from a

concert, or conversations on philosophical subjects which

lasted frequently till morning, in which my father was a

lively partaker and assistant of my brother William by
Icontriving self-made instruments
                                                  Often would
Ikeep myself awake that might listen to their animating

remarks, for it made mc so happy to see them so happy. But

generally their conversation would branch out on philo

sophical subjects, when my brother William and my father

often argued with such warmth, that my mother's in

terference became necessary, when the names Leibnitz,

Newton, and Euler sounded rather too loud for the repose

of her little ones, who ought to be in school by seven in

the morning. But it seems that on the brothers retiring

to their own room, where they shared the same bed, my

brother William had still a great deal to say ; and frequently

Iit happened that when he stopped for an assent or reply, he

found his hearer was gone to sleep, and suppose it was

not"  till then that he  bethought himself to do  the same.    in
      The recollection    of these happy scenes   confirms me

the belief, that had my brother William not then been inter

rupted in his philosophical pursuits, we should have had

much earlier proofs of his inventive genius. My father
8  Caroline Lticretia Herschel.  [1755-1756.

Iwas a great admirer of astronomy, and had some knowledge

of that science ; for remember his taking me, on a clear
frosty night, into the street, to make me acquainted with
several of the most beautiful constellations,tafter we had

Ibeen gazing at a comet which was then visible. And

well remember with what delight he used to assist my
brother William in his various contrivances in the pursuit

of his philosophical studies, among which was a neatly
turned 4-inch globe, upon which the equator and ecliptic
were engraved by my brother."

    Towards the end of the year 1755 the regiment
was under orders for England, and the little house

hold was at once broken up. A place in the court

orchestra had been promised to Jacob, but the va
cancy did not, unfortunately, occur in time, and

he was obliged to smother his discontent, lower his
ambition, and accept a place in the band with his

younger brother. At length the sad hour of parting
arrived :--

   " In our room all was mute but in hurried action ; my

dear father was thin and pale, and my brother William

Ialmost equally so, for he was of a delicate constitution and

just then growing very fast. Of my brother Jacob only

remember his starting difficulties at everything that was
done for him, as my father was busy to see that they were
equipped with the necessaries for a march. . . . The
whole town was in motion with drums beating to march :
the troops hallooed and roared in the streets, the drums
beat louder, Griesbach came to join my father and brothers,
and in a moment they all were gone. My sister fled to
Chap, i.]  Early Recollections.                                 9

her own room. Alexander went with many others to

Ifollow their relatives for some miles to take a last look.

found myself now with my mother alone in a room all in

confusion, in one corner of which my little brother Dietrich

Ilay in his cradle ; my tears flowed like my mother's, but
neither of us could speak.  snatched a large handkerchief

Iof my father's from a chair and took a stool to place it at

my mother's feet, on which sat down, and put into her

hands one corner of the handkerchief, reserving the opposite

one for myself; this little action actually drew a momen

tary smile into her face . . . My father left half his

pay for our support in the hands of an agent in Hanover,

but Griesbach, instead of following my father's example,

gave up his lodging and brought his wife with her goods

and chattels to her mother, which arrangement was no

small addition to our uncomfortable situation."

   Even at this early age, it is not difficult to trace
in these childish recollections the influence of that

intense affection for her brother William which

made him more and more the centre of all her

interests ; next to him, her father filled a large

place in her heart. Of the long year of separation,

nothing    is recorded.  "  At last Jacob           arrived (having
            aggravation                                to resign his
" out of                     got permission

place when the hoped-for vacancy in the orchestra

had been   otfhatehrewriseanfdillebdr)othheer,had"   travelled  by post,
while his                                           who never     forsook

him for self-consideration," were still toiling wearily

on the march home.

"My mother being very busy preparing dinner, had
10  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1756-U57.

suffered me to go all alone to the parade to meet my

Ifather, but could not find him anywhere, nor anybody
I Iwhom knew ; so at last, when nearly frozen to death,

came home and found them all at table. My dear brother
William threw down his knife and fork, and ran to

welcome and crouched down to me, which made me
forget all my grievances. The rest were so happy . . at
seeing one another again, that my absence had never
been perceived."

    The visit to England appears to have further de
veloped the love of show and luxury which painfully
distinguished Jacob, who must needs import speci
mens of English goods and English tailoring, while
all that William brought back was a copy of Locke
on the Human Understanding, the purchase of which
absorbed all his private means, as he never willingly
asked his father for a single penny. But it was be
coming apparent that he had not the physical strength
to continue in the Guard during war time, and after
the disastrous campaign of 1757, and the defeat at

Hastenbeck,* 26th July, 1757 (between 20 and 30

miles from Hanover), his parents resolved to remove

him-- a step apparently attended by no small diffi
culty, as our faithful clironicler narrates :--

  I" can now comprehend the reason why we little ones

Iwere continually sent out of the way, and why had only by.

Ichance a passing glimpse of my brother as was sitting aF

    * The Duke of Cumberland's army suffered severely in this hattle.
Chap. I.]  Early Recollections.                   11

the entrance of our street-door, when he glided like a
shadow along, wrapped in a great coat, followed by my mother
with a parcel containing his accoutrements. After he had
succeeded in passing unnoticed beyond the last sentinel
at Herrenhausen he changed his dress. . . . My brother's

keeping himself so carefully from all notice was undoubtedly
to avoid the danger of being pressed, for all unengaged
young men were forced into the service. Even the clergy,

unless they had livings, were not exempted."

   During these times of public and private peril, the
little girl was sent regularly to the garrison school with
her brother Alexander till three in the afternoon, when

she went to another school till six, to learn knitting.

I" From that time forward was fully employed in pro

viding my brothers with stockings, and remember that the
Ifirst pair for Alexander touched the floor when
                                                  stood

upright finishing the front. Besides this my pen was

frequently in requisition for writing not onfy my mother's

letters to my father, but for many a poor soldier's wife in

our neighbourhood to her husband in the camp : for it

ought to be remembered that in the beginning of the last

century very few women, when they left country schools,

had been taught to write."

   In addition to these occupations, she was called upon

to make herself useful when the fastidious Jacob

honoured the humble table with his presence, " and

jpoor I got many a whipping for being awkward at sup

plying the place of footman or waiter." The sight of
her mother constantly in tears ; the prolonged absence
12         Caroline Lticretia Herschel.                         [1757-1760.

of her father ; the sister's unhappiness at being home
less when about to become a mother; all these circum

stances combined to sadden the personal recollections
of a time of almost unsurpassed national calamity.
After the loss of the battle at Hastcnbeck, the Recol

lections thus conclude this period.

    "Nothing but distressing reports came from our army,

and we were almost immediately in the power of the

French troops,* each house being crammed with men.

In that in which we were obliged to bewail in silence

our cruel fate, no less than 16 privates were quartered,

besides some officers who occupied the best apartments, and

t"hinsotlassoteldongfo"rJ  about   two  years [a note of later  date  says
                           before  the  town was liberated."

  A gap occurs here, between the years 1757 and

1760, several pages having been torn out in both the
original " Recollections " and the unfinished memoir
commenced in 1840. In the former, a sentence be

ginning " the next time I saw him [Jacob] was when

he came running to my mother with a letter, the

* "While the King of Prussia was warring in the south of Germany, an

army of 60,000 Frenchmen under Marshal d'Estrees was directed upon

Hanover, and occupied in the first place the Prussian dominions lying upon

the Rhine                  d'Estrees had been to a certain degree successful in an

action at Hastenbeck, on the Weser, and had forced Cumberland to retreat.

That commander continued to yield ground incessantly, leaving Hanover and

                                   He concluded with Kichelieu the convention
....Magdeburg unprotected
of Closter Severn, by which he engaged that  the Hanoverian troops

should continue inactive in their quarters near Stade. Hostilities were to bo

suspended, and no stipulation was made respecting the Electorate of Hanover.

That country was accordingly plundered without mercy, and subjected to
enormous contributions." --Annals of France, Encyclopedia Metro oliiana.
Chap, i.]  Early Recollections.  13

contents of which," remains unfinished, and the narra
tive recommences with : " After reading over many

Ipages, thought it best to destroy them, and merely

Ito write down what remember to have passed in our

family." Accordingly there is no record of anything
preserved during this interval until May, 17C0, when

the head of the family returned to it for good --broken

in health and worn out by hardships to which he was
no longer equal, but strong in purpose and devoting
himself at once to the musical education of his chil

dren and to giving lessons to the numerous pupils who

soon came to seek instruction from so excellent a

master. Jacob returned for the second time from

England at the end of 1759, and obtained the place
of first violin in the court orchestra. As usual the

appearance of this member of the family caused a
general upset of domestic comfort, for

" when he came to dine with us, it generally happened that

before he departed his mother was as much out of humour

Iwith him as he was at the beefsteaks being hard, and

because did not know how to clean knives and forks with
brickdust."

The younger children made great progress under

their father's careful training, and with all her pro

pensity for seeing the dark side, the daughter's

recollections of this period afford glimpses of a
Iftolerably happy household.  it was " a helpless

and distracted family" to which, as she writes, her
14               Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1760-1761.

father returned, those epithets could ill apply to the

father himself, for there is abundant evidence that he

was a man of no ordinary character-- one who, in spite

of constant suffering of a most distressing kind, per

sisted in hard work to the very end, and who set his

children a noble example of patience, unselfishness,

and self-denial. To the last, as his daughter records, --

   " Copying music employed every vacant moment, even

sometimes throughout half the night, and the pen was not

suffered to rest even when smoking a pipe, which habit he

indulged in rather on account of his asthmatical constitu

Ition than as a luxury ; for, without all exception, he was the
most abstemious liver  ever have known ; and in every

instance, even in the article of clothing, the utmost frugality

was observed, and yet he never was seen otherwise than

very neat. .      . . With my brother        [Dietrich]    now     a
                 creature of between four                   old
little engaging                            and five years        --

he was very much pleased, and [on the first evening of his

arrival at home] before he went to rest, the Adempken

(a little violin) was taken from the lumbering shelf and

Inewly strung and the daily lessons immediately commenced.
...  do not recollect that he ever desired any other

society than what he had opportunities of enjoying in many

of the parties where he was introduced by his profession ;

though far from being of a morose disposition ; he would

frequently encourage my mother in keeping up a social

intercourse among a few acquaintances, whilst his afternoon
hours generally were taken up in giving lessons to some

scholars at home, who gladly saved him the troublesome
exertion of walking. . . . He also found great pleasure
in seeing Dietrich's improvement, who, young as he was,
and of the most lively temper imaginable, was always ready
Chap, i.]        Early Recollecttons.                15

to receive his lessons, leaving his little companions (with

whom our neighbourhood abounded) with the greatest

Icheerfulness to go to his father, who was so pleased with his

performances that-- think it must have been in October or
November --he made him play a solo on the Adempken in

Rake's concert, being placed on a table before a crowded

company, for which he was very much applauded and

caressed, particularly by an English lady, who put a gold

coi"n  in   his  little pocket.   my father had  as  many scholars
           was   not long before
       It

as he could find time to attend, for some of those . he had

left behind returned to him again, and several families who

had sons of about the age of my little brother, became his

pupils and proved in time very good performers. And

Iwhen they assembled at my father's to make little concerts,
   was frequently called to join the second violin in an

overture, for my father found pleasure in giving me some

Itimes a lesson before the instruments were laid by after

practising with Dietrich, for never was missing at those

hours, sitting in a corner with my knitting and listening all

the while."

   A serious interruption of this and all other occupa

tions was caused by a severe attack of typhus fever
which in the summer of 1761 threatened to be fatal,

and

" reduced my strength to that degree that for several
Imonths after was obliged to mount the stairs on my hands
Iand feet like an infant ; but here will remark that from
Ithat time to this present day (June 5, 1821)
                                                     do not

remember ever to have spent a whole day in bed."

In spite of her strong objections to learning, the
16  Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.  [1761-1764.

worthy mother had too correct a view of her duties
to stand in the way of the necessary preparation for
her daughter's confirmation, who was accordingly, but
not Avithout complaints at the loss of time, released

from her household avocations for this purpose.
Alexander, who had been taken as a sort of ap
prentice by Griesbach, was now of an age to turn his

great musical talents to profitable account, and re

turned to Hanover, where he obtained the somewhat

mysterious situation of Stadtmusicus (Town Musician),
the duties of which office involved

" little else to do but to give a daily lesson to an apprentice

and to blow a Corale from the Markt Thurm ; so that nearly
all his time could be given to practice and receiving instruc
tion from his father. There was no doubt but that he
would soon become a good violin player, for his natural
genius was such that nothing could spoil it."

    Although the absent brother William kept up
regular correspondence with Hanover, many of his
letters were written in English and addressed to
Jacob, on such subjects as the Theory of Music, in
which the family in general could not participate.
Year after year went by, and William showed no

inclination to leave England, to Avhich country he
was becoming more and more attached ; the poor
father, who felt his strength steadily declining, became

painfully eager for his return. On the 2nd April,
1764, they were thrown into "a tumult of joy" by his
Chap. I.]                 Early Recollections.           17

appearance among them. The visit was a very
brief one, offering no hope of any intention to settle
in Hanover; the father was well aware that he

at least could not look forward to another meeting
on earth, while to the poor little unnoticed girl, this
visit and its attendant circumstances stood out in
her memory as fraught with anguish, which even
her unskilled pen succeeds in representing as a grief

almost too deep for words.

  " Of the joys and pleasures which all felt at this long-

wished-for meeting with my --let me say my dearest

brother, but a small portion could fall to my share ; for

with my constant attendance at church and school, besides

Ithe time was employed in doing the drudgery of the
Iscullery, it was but seldom could make one in the group

wh"enInthethefamfiirlsyt  were assembled  together.      were invited
                                          the orchestra
                          week some of

to a concert, at which some of my brother William's com
positions, overtures, &c, and some of my eldest brother

Jacob's were performed, to the great delight of my dear

father, who hoped and expected that they would be turned

to some profit by publishing them, but there was no printer

bid high enough.
Sunday the 8th
Iwh"o                     was  the --to   me --eventful  day of my

confirmation, and left home not a little proud and en

couraged by my dear brother William's approbation of my

appearance in my new gown."

   Not only was she disappointed in her fervent hope

that the longed-for brother would not come at the
very time when she was obliged to be much from

                                                                                                                                       o
18       Caroline Lucrctia Hcrschel.      [1764-1767.

home, but several of the precious days of his stay were
spent in a visit to the Griesbachs at Coppenbriigge,
and the Sunday fixed for his departure was the very
day on which she was to receive her first communion.

    " The church was crowded and the door open : the Ham

Iburger, Postwagen passed at eleven, bearing away my dear

brother, from whom had been obliged to part at 8 o'clock.

It was within a dozen yards from the open door; the .

postilion giving a smettering blast on his horn. Its effect
Ion my shattered nerves, will not attempt to describe, nor
I Iwhat felt for days and weeks after.    wish it were
Ipossible to say what wish to say, without feeling anew that

feverish wretchedness which accompanied my walk in the

afternoon with some of my school companions, in my black
silk dress and bouquet of artificial flowers --the same which
Ihad served my sister on her bridal day.
                                          could think of
Inothing but that on my return should find nobody but

my disconsolate father and mother, for Alexander's engage

ments allowed him to be with us only at certain hours,

and Jacob was seldom at home except to dress and take his

meals."

   From the state of hopeless lethargy in which the
poor sister describes herself as going mechanically
about her daily tasks after that memorable day, she
was roused by a calamity which affected all alike.
The father had a paralytic seizure the August follow
ing, by which he lost the use of his right side almost
entirely, and although he so far recovered as to be
able still to receive pupils in his own house, he never
Chap, i.]  Early Recollections.  19

regained his former skill on the violin, and was re
duced to a sad state of suffering and infirmity ; a few-
months later he was pronounced to be in a confirmed
dropsy. Changes of abode, not always for the better ;
anxieties, on account of Alexander's prospects and
Jacob's vagaries ; disappointment, at seeing his

daughter grow up without the education he had
hoped to give her; were the circumstances under
which the worn-out sufferer struggled through the
last three years of his life, copying music at every

spare moment, assisting at a Concert only a few
weeks before his death, and giving lessons until he
was obliged to keep wholly to his bed. He was re
leased from his sufferings at the comparatively early

age of sixty-one on the 22nd March, 1767, leaving
to his children little more than the heritage of his

good example, unblemished character, and those

musical talents which he had so carefully educated,
and by which he probably hoped the more gifted of
his sons would attain to eminence.

    Miss Herschel describes herself as having fallen into

"a kind of stupefaction," which lasted for many

weeks after the loss of her father, and the awakening
to life had little of hope in the present or promise for
the future, so far as she could see then. At the age
of seventeen she had learned nttle beyond the first
elements of education, and she was now deprived of

the one friend who encouraged and sympathised with

                                                                                                      c2
20         Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [176".

her desire for better instruction. The parents had
Inever agreed on the subject. " When
                                        had left

school," she writes,

    " My father wished to give me something like a polished

education, but my mother was particularly determined that

it should be a rough, but at the same time a useful one ; and

nothing farther she thought was necessary but to send me

two or three months to a sempstress to be taught to make

Ihousehold linen. Having added this accomplishment to

my former ingenuities, never afterwards could find leisure

for thinking of anything but to contrive and make for the

family in all imaginable forms whatever was wanting, and

I Ithus learned to make bags and sword-knots long before

knew how to make caps and furbelows

My mother would not consent to my being taught French,

and my brother Dietrich was even denied a dancing-master,

because she would not permit my learning along with him,

though the entrance had been paid for us both ; so all my

father could do for me was to indulge me (and please him

self) sometimes with a short lesson on the violin, when my
mother was either in good humour or out of the way.

IThough have often felt myself exceedingly at a loss for
Ithe want of those few accomplishments of which was thus,

Iby an erroneous though well-meant opinion of my mother,
deprived,  could not help thinking but that she had cause

for wishing me not to know more than was necessary for

******being useful in the family ; for it was her certain belief that

my brother William would have returned to his country, and

my eldest brother not have looked so high, if they had had

a little less learning.
IBut sometimes  found it scarcely possible to get through

with the work required, and felt very unhappy that
Chap, i.]  Early Recollections.                     21

Ino time at all was left for improving myself in music or

fancy-work, in which had an opportunity of receiving

some instruction from an ingenious young woman whose

parents lived in the same house with us. But the time

wanted for spending a few hours together could only be

Iobtained by our meeting at daybreak, because by the time

of the family's rising at seven, was obliged to be at my

daily business. But during the summer months of 176<*,

Ivery few mornings passed without our spending a few hours

together, to which was called by my friend's loud cough

at her window by way of notice that she was ready for me
I[she could not sleep, and was glad of my company.
                                                    lost

her soon after, for she died of consumption]. Though

I had neither time nor means for producing anything im
Imediately either for show or use, was content with keep

ing samples of all possible patterns in needlework, beads,

Ibugles, horsehair, &c, for could not help feeling troubled
Isometimes about my future destiny ; yet could not bear

the idea of being turned into an Abigail or housemaid, and

Ithought that with the above and such like acquirements

with a little notion of Music, might obtain a place as

governess in some family where the want of a know

ledge of French would be no objection."

   It was with the same object of fitting herself to

earn her bread that, after her father's death, she

obtained permission to go for a month or two to learn
millinery and dress-making ; her eldest brother Jacob,
before leaving them to join William at Bath, having

graciously given his consent, " if it was only meant

to learn to make my own things, but positively for
bidding it for any other purpose." The following
22  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                    [ires.

account of this episode shows how customary such
apprenticeship was among young ladies of good

family, as a part of their education :--

  I"My mother found some difficulty in persuading the

lady to whom wished to go, to receive me without paying

Ithe usual premium, but at last she gave me leave to come on

paying one thaler per month. felt myself rather humbled

on going the first time among twenty-one young people with

an elegant woman, Madame Kuster, at their head, directing

them in various works of finery. Among the         group were
Iseveral young laches of genteel families, and as   came there
I Ion rather reduced terms,                          should be
    expected that

Ikept in the back ground, doing nothing but the plain

work of the business ; but contrary to my fears, gained

I*n the school-mistress a valuable friend . . . Here
   found myself daily happy for a few hours and one of

the young women,* after a lapse of thirty-five years, when

I was introduced to her at the Queen's Lodge, received
Ime as an old acquaintance, though could but just remember

having sometimes exchanged a nod and smile with a sweet

Ilittle girl about ten or eleven years old. But soon was
Isensible of having found what hitherto had looked for in
Ivain--a sincere and disinterested friend to whom might have

applied for counsel and comfort in my deserted situation."

   A proposal from Jacob that Dietrich, whom the

father on his deathbed had specially commended to his
care, should be sent to England, caused his mother the
utmost distress, on account of his being still too young
to be confirmed ; but her scruples were overcome and

   * Afterwards Madame Beckedorff, Misa Herschel's most valued fiiend in
after years.
Chap. I.]         Early Recollections.                       23

Dietrich was despatched in the summer as soon as a
fitting escort could be found.

   " But what was yet more aggravating was, that the loss of

Ms company was supplied by a country cousin whom my
mother permitted to spend the summer with us in order to

have the advantage of my mother's advice in making prepara
tion for her marriage. . . . This young woman, full of

good-nature and ignorance, grew unfortunately so fond of me

Ithat she was for ever at my side, and by that means lost
Iwhat little interval of leisure might then have had for
Ireading, practising the violin, &c, entirely. Besides this,

was extremely discomposed at seeing Alexander associating

with young men who led him into all manner of expensive

Ipleasures which involved him in debts for the hire of horses

and carioles, &c, and was (though he knew my inability of

helping him) made a partaker in his fears that these scrapes

sho"uMldy  come   to the knowledge of our mother.      with  making
            time  was, however, filled up pretty well

household linen, &c, against Jacob's return. . . .
  I. . It was not, however, till the middle of the following

summer that we saw him again, and suppose his stay must

have been prolonged on account of waiting till he had had

the honour of playing before their Majesties, for which (in
consequence of having composed and dedicated a set of six

sonatas to the Queen) he was informed he would receive a
summons. . . . After this his salary was augmented

by 100 thalers," and the promise of not being overlooked

in future.

  I I'Note. --Before leave this subject cannot help remem

bering the sacrifices these good people were making to
pride. They played nowhere for money, for even when

in 1768 (I think it was) the King's theatre was first
24  Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.  [1768-1770.

opened to the Public, and the Court orchestra was called
upon to play there, they did it without any emolument, so
that there was no way left to increase their small salaries
but by giving a few subscription concerts in the winter, or
by teaching. So much, by way of apology, for the emi
gration of part of my family to England.]

" We passed the winter in the utmost quiet, except when

Alexander took it into his head to entertain gentlemen in

his own apartment, which always made my mother very

Icross, else in general nothing disturbed us hi our occupa

tion. My mother spun, was at work on a set of ruffles of

Dresden-work for my brother Jacob, whilst Alexander often

...sat by us and amused us and himself with making all sorts
of things in pasteboard, or contriving how to make a twelve-

hour Cuckoo clock go a week.  As my mother saw

that Dietrich's confirmation was still uncertain, she insisted

on having him back again. . . . Accordingly at the end

of July they [Jacob and Dietrich] arrived, and Dietrich
entered school again immediately," but remained only until

his confirmation the following Easter.

   A new direction was suddenly given to all their

plans by the arrival of letters from the absent brother
William, who proposed that his sister should join him
at Bath --

I. . . " to make the trial if by his instruction might not be

come a useful singer for his winter concerts and oratorios, .
he advised my brother Jacob to give me some lessons by

way of beginning ; but that if after a trial of two years we
should not find it answer our expectation he would bring
me back again. This at first seemed to be agreeable to all
Chaf. I.]  Early Recollections.     25

Iparties, but by the time  had set my heart upon this

change in my situation, Jacob began to turn the whole

scheme into ridicule, and, of course, he never heard the sound

Iof my voice except in speaking, and yet was left in the
I Iharassing uncertainty whether was to go or not. resolved

at last to prepare, as far as lay in my power, for both cases,

by taking, in the first place, every opportunity when all were

from home to imitate, with a gag between my teeth, the solo

Iparts of concertos, shake and all, such as had heard them
Iplay on the violin ; in consequence had gained a tolerable
I Iexecution before knew how to sing. next began to knit
Iruffles, which were intended for my brother William in case
Iremained at home --else they were to be Jacob's. For my

mother and brother D. knitted as many cotton stockings

as would last two years at least."

     Jacob remained with his family until the following

 July, when he returned to Bath, this time taking

 Alexander with him for two years' leave of absence,
 the young Dietrich being deemed competent not only
 to supply his place in the orchestra, but also to attend

 his private pupils.
     Nothing is recorded in the interval between Jacob's

 return to Hanover in the autumn and the long ex
 pected arrival of William in April, 1772, except one
 of the changes of abode, which were of such frequent
 occurrence, involving abundance of employment in
· making and altering articles of household use, which

 afforded some relief to the conscientious daughter,

  who was sorely troubled by uncertainty as to her
 duty in the matter of going to England or staying
26          Caroline Lucrdia Herschel.  [1772.

with her mother, although the latter had given her

consent to the change.

" In this   manner" [making prospective clothes for them]
            still the compunction felt at leaving relatives
  tried to
I I"
Iwho, feared, would lose some of their comforts by my

desertion, and nothing but the belief of returning to them

full of knowledge and accomplishments could have sup

ported me in the parting moment, which was much em

bittered by the absence of my brother Jacob, who was

with the Court which attended on the Queen of Denmark
at the Gorde, where my brother Dietrich had also been for

some time, and but just returned when my brother William,

for whose safety we had for several weeks been under no

small apprehension, at last quite unexpectedly arrived. . . .

His stay at Hanover could at the utmost not be prolonged

above a fortnight. . . . My mother had consented

to my going with him, and the anguish at my leaving her

was somewhat alleviated by my brother settling a small

annuity on her, by which she would be enabled to keep an

Iattendant to supply my place." They all went over to

Coppenbriigge "to see my sister-- to take leave of her;

the remaining time was wasted in an unsatisfactory

correspondence : the letters from my brother Jacob ex

pressed nothing but regret and impatience at being thus

Idisappointed, and, without being able to effect a meeting,
   was obliged to go without receiving the consent of my

eldest brother to my going
    ***#*
I" But
            will not attempt to describe my feelings when
Ithe parting moment arrivgd, and left my dear mother

and most dear Dietrich on Sunday, August 16th, 1772, at

the Posthouse, and after travelling for six days and nights

on an open (in those days very inconvenient) Postwagen,
chap, i.]                   Early Recollections.                    27

we were on the following Saturday conveyed in a small

open vessel from the quay at Helvotsluis on a stormy sea, to

the packet boat, which lay two miles distant at anchor ; from

which we were again obliged to go in an open boat to be

set ashore, or rather thrown like balls by two English sailors,
on the coast of Yarmouth.* For the vessel was almost a

wre"cAk,ftewrithhoauvitnga  main and another of its masts.   low  houses,
                            crawled to one of a row of neat

we found the party previously arrived from the ship devour

ing their breakfast ; several clean-dressed women employed

in cutting bread and butter (from fine wheaten loaves) as
fast as ever they could. One of them went upstairs with

me to help me to put on my clothes, and after taking some

tea we mounted some sort of a cart to bring us to the next

place where diligences going to London would pass. But

we had hardly gone a quarter of an English mile when the

horse, which was not used to go in what they called the

shafts, ran away with us, overturning the cart with trunk and

Ipassengers. My brother, another person, and myself all

throwing themselves out, flying into a dry ditch. We all

came off however, with only the fright, owing to the assist

ance of a gentleman who, with his servant, was accom-

panjing us on horseback. These persons had come in the
packet with us, and it was settled not to part till in

London, where we arrived at noon on the 26th at an inn

in the City. Here we remained till the evening of the

27th. My brother having business at the West-end of

the town, left me under the care of our fellow travellers ;

but after his return, in the evening when the shops were

lighted up, we went to see all that was to be seen in that

Ipart of London, of which only remember the opticians'
Ishops, for do not think we stopped at any other.

* The other version calls it " from Helrot to Harrigo " = Harwich.
28      Caroline Lucretia Herschel.             [1772.

  " The next day the mistress of the inn lent me a hat of
her daughter's--mine was Mown into one of the canals of
Holland, for we had storms by land as well as at sea --and

we went to see St. Paul's, the Bank, &c, &c Mem : only the

outside, except of St. Paul's and the Bank, and we were never

off our legs, except at meals in our inn. Towards even

ing we went to the West of the town, where, after having

called on Despatch Secretary AViese and his lady (Mr.

Wiese conducted our correspondence with Hanover) we

went to the inn, from whence we at ten o'clock in the even

ing started by the night coach for Bath on the 28th of
IAugust
        After taking some tea went imme
Idiately to bed, and did not awake till the next day in the
Iafternoon, when found my brother had but just left his
Iroom.
        for my part was, from the privation of sleep

for eleven or twelve days (not having above twice been in

what t'.iey called a bed) almost annihilated."

       END OF RECOLLECTIONS, VOL. I.

   The only allusion to this journey in Sir W.

Herschel's Journal is the brief entry: -- "August 16,

1772. Set off on my return to England in company
with my sister."
sin WIllIaM HERSCHel's F0K7y-F00T  TElESCOPE  AT SlOUCH.
                                                  [To fact page 20.
                       CHAPTER II.

     LIFE OF THE BROTHER AND SISTER IN BATH.

  At the time when William Herschel brought his

sister back with him to Bath, he had established him
self there as a teacher of music, numbering among his
pupils many ladies of rank. He was also organist of
the Octagon Chapel, and frequently composed anthems,
chants, and whole services for the choir under his
management. On the retirement of Mr. Linley
(father of the celebrated singer, afterwards the beau
tiful Mrs. Sheridan) from the direction of the Public
Concerts, he at once added this to his other avoca
tions, and was consequently immersed in business of
the most laborious and harassing kind during the
whole of the Bath season. But he considered all this
professional work only as the means to an end ; devotion
to music produced income and a certain degree of leisure,
and these were becoming every day more imperatively
necessary. Every spare moment of ihe day, and
many hours stolen from the night, had long been
30  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1772.

devoted to the studies which were compelling him to
become himself an observer of the heavens. Insufficient

mechanical means roused his inventive genius ; and, as
all the world knows, the mirror for the mighty forty-
foot telescope was the crowning result. To his pupils
he was known as not a music-master alone. Some

ladies had lessons in astronomy from him, and, at the
invitation of his friend Dr. Watson, he became a mem

ber of a philosophical society then recently started
in Bath, to which he for several years contributed a
great number of papers on various scientific subjects.

It soon came to pass that the gentlemen who sought

interviews with him, asking for a peep through the
wonderful tube, carried stories of what they had seen
to London, and these were not long in finding their

way to St. James's.

   It was thus at the very turning-point of her

brother's career that Caroline Herschel became his

companion and fellow-worker. No contrast could

be sharper than that presented by the narrow domestic
routine she had left to the life of ceaseless and inex

haustible activity into which she was plunged; --

unless, indeed, it be that presented by the nature of
the events she has to record, and the tone in which

they are recorded. For ten years she persevered at

Bath, singing when she was told to sing, copying
when she was told to copy, " lending a hand " in the
workshop, and taking her full share in all the stirring
Chap. II.]  Life in Bath.                                 31

and exciting changes by which the musician be

came the King's astronomer and a celebrity ; but

she never, by a single word, betrays how these

wonderful events affected her; nor ever indulges

in the slightest approach to an original sentiment,

comment, or reflection not strictly connected with

the present fact. Whether it be to record the

presentation of the "golden medal," or the dis

honesty of the incorrigible Betties who then, and

till her life's end, so sorely tried her peace of

mind,       there is no difference in   the    style or   spirit
of the                                     as    apology    and
              " Recollections." Partly

partly as complaint, the one grievance is harped

on, even when fifty years' experience might have

convinced her that she had done something more
for herself and the world than earn her bread by

Iher own labour. " In short," she writes, " have

been throughout annoyed and hindered in my en

deavours at perfecting myself in any branch of

Iknowledge by which could hope to gain a credit

able livelihood." It is seldom, however, that she is

diverted from the main theme to write about herself

otherwise than incidentally, and in a note addressed

to her nephew, she says: -- "My only reason for

saying so much of myself is to show with what

miserable assistance your father made shift to ob

taining the means of exploring the heavens."
32  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.            [1772.

I" On the afternoon of August 28th, 1772,  arrived

with my brother at his house No. 7, New King Street,

Bath, where we were received only by Mr. Bulman's family,
who occupied the parlour floor, and had the management of

his servant and household affairs. My brother had formerly

boarded with them at Leeds, whence, on Mr. Bulman's

failure in business, they had removed to Bath, where my

brother procured for him the place of Clerk at the Octagon

Chapel. . . . On our journey he had taken every op

portunity to make me hope to find in Mrs. Bulman a well-

informed and well-meaning friend, and in her daughter, a

few years younger than myself, an agreeable companion.

I IBut as knew no more English than the few words which

had on our journey learned to repeat like a parrot, it may

Ibe easily supposed that it would require some time before

could feel comfortable among strangers. But as the season

for the arrival of visitors to the Baths does not begin

till October, my brother had leisure to try my capacity for

Ibecoming a useful singer for his concerts and oratorios,

and being very well satisfied with my voice, had two or

three lessons every day, and the hours which were not

spent at the harpsichord were employed in putting me in

the way of managing the family. . . . On the second

morning, on meeting my brother at breakfast, he began

immediately to give me a lesson in English and arithmetic,

and showed me the way of booking and keeping accounts
of cash received and laid out. . . . By way of re

Ilaxation we talked of astronomy and the bright constel

lations with which had made acquaintance during the

fine nights we spent on the Postwagen travelling through

Holland.
   " My brother Alexander, who had been some time in

England, boarded and lodged with his elder brother, and
<hap. ii.]                Life in Bath.                        33

with myself, occupied the attic The first floor, which was
furnished in the newest and most handsome style, my
brother kept for himself. The front room containing the
harpsichord was always in order to receive his musical friends

Iand scholars at little private concerts or rehearsals

Sundays received a sum for the weekly expenses, of which

my housekeeping book (written in English) showed tht
amount laid out, and my purse the remaining cash. One of
the principal things required was to market, and about six

Iweeks after coming to England was sent alone among
Ifishwomen, butchers, basket-women, &c, and brought
home whatever in my fright I could pick up. . . . My

brother Alex, who was now returned from his summer en

gagement, used to watch me at a distance, unknown to me,
till he saw me safe on my way home. But all attempts to

introduce any order in our little household proved vain,

owing to the servant my brother then had -- a hot-headed

Iold Welshwoman. All the articles, tea-things, »fcc, which
   was to take in charge, were almost all destroyed : knives

eaten up by rust, heaters of the tea-urn found in the ash-

hole, &c And what still further increased my difficulty

Iwas, that my brother's time was entirely taken up with

business, so that only saw him at meals. Breakfast was

at 7 o'clock or before (much too early for me), --who would

rather have remained up all night than be obliged to rise at,

Iso  "eaTrhlye  an hour.     ...  months  passed  on  very  heavily.
                   three                                    and low
                          winter

   had to struggle against heimwehe (home sickness)

spirits, and to answer my sister's melancholy letters on the

Ideath of her husband, by which she became a widow with
six children.             knew too little English to derive any

Iconsolation from the society of those who were about

me, so that, dinner-time excepted, was entirely left to

myself."

                                                            D
34  Caroline Lucrctia Hcrsc/iel.  [1 774-1775.

   Introductions to her brother's scholars led to occa

sional evening parties, where her voice was in demand
as well for single songs as to take part in duets and
glees, and one of these ladies, Mrs. Colebrook, invited
her to go to London on a visit. This visit was
prolonged for several weeks owing to the deep snow,
which rendered the roads impassable. The Duchess of

Ancaster is said to have offered any sum to have a

passage cut near Devizes, but without success, her Grace
was in consequence unable to be present on the 18th

January, when the Queen's birthday was kept. Operas,
plays, auctions, and all the usual amusements of the
town, gave Miss Herschel a glimpse of the gay world ;
but the expense of dress and chairmen troubled her
spirits too much to allow of her finding pleasure in
these dissipations ; and although Mrs. Colebrook is
allowed to be both " learned and clever," her society

does not appear to have contributed much more to
heJ happiness than that of some younger ladies whose
companionship was offered, but whose visits she did

not encourage, because, as she bluntly explains, she
" thought them very little better than idiots."

    I" The time when  could hope to receive a little more

of my brother's instruction and attention was now drawing

near; for after Easter, Bath becomes very empty; only a few of

Ihis scholar's whose families were resident in the neighbour

hood remaining. But was greatly disappointed ; for, in

consequence of the harassing and fatiguing life he had led
Chap, ii.]            Life in Bath.      35

during the winter months, he used to retire t , bed with a
bason of milk or glass of water, and Smith's " Harmonics and
Optics," Ferguson's "Astronomy," &c, and so went to sleep

buried under his favourite authors ; and his first thoughts

on rising were how to obtain instruments for viewing those

objects himself of which he had been reading. There being in

one of the shops a two and a half foot Gregorian telescope to

be let, it was for some time taken in requisition, and served

...not only for viewing the heavens but for making experiments
on its construction.  It soon appeared that my brother

was not contented with knowing what former observers had

seen, for he began to contrive a telescope eighteen or

Itwenty- feet long (I believe after Huyghen's description). . .

. . was much hindered in my musical practice by my help

Ibeing continually wanted in the execution of the various con

trivances, and had to amuse myself with making the tube of

pasteboard for the glasses which were to arrive from Lon

don, for at that time no optician had settled at Bath. But

when all was finished, no one besides ray brother could get

a glimpse of Jupiter or Saturn, for the great length of the

tube would not allow it to be kept in a straight line. This

difficulty, however, was soon removed by substituting tin

tubes       My brother wrote to inquire the price of a

reflecting mirror for (I believe) a five or six foot telescope.
The answer was, there were none of so large a size, but a

person offered to make one at a price much above what my

brother thought proper to give. . . ." . About this time he

bought of a Quaker resident at Bath, who had formerly

made attempts at polishing mirrors, all his rubbish of pat
terns, tools, hones, polishers, unfinished mirrors, &c, but

all for small Gregorians, and none above two or three

inches diameter.

   "But nothing serious could be attempted, for want of
time, till the beginning of June, when some of my brother's

                                     d2
:)6          Caroline Lucretia HerscheL                                 [1774-1775.

Ischolars were leaving Bath ; and then to my sorrow saw

almost every room turned into a workshop. A cabinet

maker making a tube and stands of all descriptions in a

handsomely furnished drawing-room ; Alex putting up a

huge turning machine (which he had brought in the autumn
from Bristol, where he used to spend the summer) in a bed

room, for turning patterns, grinding glasses, and turning

eye-pieces, &c At the same time music durst not lie en

tirely dormant during the summer, and my brother had

Jrequent rehearsals at home, where Miss Farinelli, an

Italian singer, was met by several of the principal per

formers he had engaged for the winter concerts

He composed glees, catches, &c, for such voices as

he could secure, as it was not easy to find a singer to take the

place of Miss Linley                Sometimes, in the absence of

Fisher, he gave a concerto on the oboe, or a sonata on the

harpsichord ; and the solos on the violoncello of my brother

Alexander were divine ! . . . . He also took great delight
in a choir of singers who performed the cathedral service at

the Octagon Chapel, for whom he composed many excellent

Innthems, chants, and psalm tunes.* As soon as could
Ipronounce English well enough was obliged to attend the

I Irehearsals, and on Sundays at morning and evening service,

which, though did not much like at first, soon found to

be both pleasant and useful.

     * Although a considerable quantity of Sir W. Hcrschel's musical compo

--siti"onIs   exist in manuscript,  much has unhappily perished.   His  sister writes :
             only lament that this  anthem was left with the rest   of  my brother's

sacred compositions, which were left in trust with one of the choristers. The

morning and evening services each in two different keys, and numerous psalm

tunes most beautifully set. The organ book containing the scores ; the parts
written out and bound in leather, in a box with lock and key which was always
kept at the chapel. All is lost. With difficulty many years after, one Te

Dcum was recovered, and when I was in Bath in 1800 I obtained two or three

torn books of odd parts." The chorister's wife openly charged Mr. Linley

with having taken possession of these treasures.
Chap. II.]  Life m Bath.        37

" But every leisure moment was eagerly snatched at for

resuming some work which was in progress, without taking
time for changing dress, and many a lace ruffle was torn or

bespattered by molten pitch, &c, besides the danger to

which he continually exposed himself by the uncommon

precipitancy which accompanied all his actions, of which

we had a melancholy sample one Saturday evening, when

both brothers returned from a concert between 11 and 12

o'clock, my eldest brother pleasing himself all the way

home with being at liberty to spend the next day (except a

few hours' attendance at chapel) at the tinning bench, but

recollecting that the tools wanted sharpening, they ran

with the lantern and tools to our landlord's grindstone

in a public yard, where they did not wish to be seen

on a Sunday morning. . . . But my brother William

was soon brought back fainting by Alex with the loss of

one of his finger-nails. This happened in the winter

of 1775, at a house situated near Walcot turnpike,

to which my brother had moved at midsummer, 1774.

On a grass plot behind the house preparation was

immediately made for erecting a twenty-foot telescope,

for which, among seven and ten foot mirrors then in

hand, one of twelve foot was preparing; this house offered

more room for workshops, and a place on the roof for

Iob"seDrvuinrign.g this summer  lost the only female acquain
Itances (not friends) ever had an opportunity of being very

intimate with by Buhner's family returning again to Leeds.

For my time was so much taken up with copying music and

Ipractising, besides attendance on my brother when polishing,

since by way of keeping him alive was constantly obliged to

feed him by putting the victuals by bits into his mouth. This

was once the case when, in order to finish a seven foot mirror,

he had not taken his hands from it for sixteen hours togc
38                Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                    [1775-1782.

ther.* In general he was never unemployed at meals, but

Iwas always at those times contriving or making drawings
of whatever came in his mind. Generally                                    was obliged

to read to him whilst he was at the turning lathe, or polish

ing mirrors, Don Quixote, Arabian Nights' Entertainment,

the novels of Sterne, Fielding, &c ; serving tea and supper

.... Iwithout interrupting the work with which he was engaged,
    and sometimes lending a hand.               became in time as

useful a member of the workshop as a boy might be to his

I Imaster in the first year of his apprenticeship                                    But

as was to take a part the next year in the oratorios, bad

for a whole twelvemonth two lessons per week from Miss

Fleming, the celebrated dancing mistress, to drill me for a

gentlewoman (God knows how she succeeded). So we lived
on without interruption. My brother Alex was absent from

Bath for some months every summer, but when at home

he took much pleasure to execute some turning or clock-

maker's work for his brother."

   News from Hanover put a sudden stop for a time to
all these labours. The mother wrote, in the utmost

distress, to say that Dietrich had disappeared from his
home, it was supposed with the intention of going to
India "with a young idler not older than himself."
His brother immediately left the lathe at which he

was turning an eye-piece in cocoanut, and started for

* " The grinding of specula used to l,e performed by the hand, no machinery

having been deemed sufficiently exact. The tool on which they were shaped

having been turned to the required form, and covered with coarse emery and
water, they were ground on it to the necessary figure, and afterwards polished

by means of putty or oxide of tin, or pitch spread asacoverfcg to the same tool
in the place of the emery. To grind a speculum of six or eight inches in

diameter was a    work    --of"  no ordinary    labour ; and such   a one  used  to  be con
sidered of great  size."         Lord Jiossc's  Telescopes," 1844.
Chap. II.]         Life in Bath.             39

Holland, whence he proceeded to Hanover, failing

to meet his brother as he expected. Meanwhile

the sister received a letter to say that Dietrich was

laid up very ill at an inn in Wapping. Alexander

posted to town, removed him to a lodging, and after a

fortnight's nursing, brought him to Bath, where, on

his brother William's return, he found him being well

cared for    by his sister, who kept      him to a diet of
            apples and barley-water."     Dietrich remained
" roasted

in England, his brother easily procuring him employ

ment until 1779, when he returned to Hanover, and

shortly afterwards married a Miss Eeif. The family

now moved to a larger house, 19, New King Street,*

               It

                     is
                                     it,
which had a garden behind and open space down
                   incidentally mentioned, " that
to the river.

here many interesting discoveries besides the Georgium

Sidus were made."

In preparation for the oratorios to be performed

during Lent, Miss Herschel mentions that she copied
the scores of the " Messiah " and " Judas Maccabeus "

into parts for an orchestra of nearly one hundred per
formers, and the vocal parts of " Samson," besides

instructing the treble singers, of which she was now
herself the first. On the occasion of her first public

appearance, her brother presented her -with ten;

guineas for h^ dress,--
   * In this house the Georgium Sidus was discovered, 1781 a volcanic
mountain in the moon, 1783. Here the forty-foot was finished, which re
vealed two more volcanic mountains in the moon, 1789.
40  Caroline Lncrctia Herschel.  [1775-1782_
    I" And that my choice could not have been a bad one
conclude from having been pronounced by Mr. Palmer (the

then proprietor of the Bath theatre) to be an ornament to-

the stage. And as to acquitting myself in giving my songs

Iand recitatives in the 'Messiah,' 'Judas Maccabeus,' »Src,
  had the satisfaction of being complimented by my friends,
and the Marchioness of Lothian, &c, who were present at the

rehearsals, for pronouncing my words like an Englishwoman."

   It is evident that had she chosen to persevere, her

reputation as a singer would have been secure. The
following year she was first singer at the concerts, and

was offered an engagement for the Birmingham Festival,,

which she declined, having resolved only to sing in
public where her brother was conductor. At this time

he had repeated proposals from London publishers to
bring out some of his vocal compositions, but with the
exception of " The Echo " catch, none of them ever

appeared in print. Besides the regular Sunday services,
concerts and oratorios had to be prepared for and per
formed in steady routine, sometimes at Bristol alsoj
while the poor prima-donna-housekeeper " hobbled on "

with one dishonest servant after another, uutil Whit

Sunday, 1782, when both brother and sister played
and sung for the last time, in St. Margaret's ChapcL
On this occasion, their last performance in public, the
anthem selected for the day was one of the last com

positions, of which mention has been ma,de above.
   The name of William Herschel was fast becoming

famous, as a writer, a discoverer, and the possessor and
-1,-sl Chap, ii.]                    Life in Bath.                                                                                  41

veil inventor of instruments of unheard-of power. He was

f'M        now about to be released     from the necessity -of                                                               devoting
           the time to music which      he was eager to give                                                                 to astro
ti

Ire nomical science.*                It came about  as  follows  --

                                                                 :

]. ic ii:   . . . . " He was now frequently interrupted by visitors

           who were introduced by some of his resident scholars,

           among whom remember Sir Harry Engelfield, Dr. Blag-
           den, and Dr. Maskelyne. With the latter he was engaged in
,:          ; aI
       a
                it I
                                  a
            long conversation, which to me sounded like quarrelling,

J          .... ....and the first words my brother said after he was gone was                                                       a:
            That is devil of fellow.'
         '                    suppose their names were not known, or were

           forgotten for was not till the year 1782 or 1783 that
           ...memorandum of the names of visitors was thought of
            .... My brother applied himself to perfect his mirrors,                                                                 .

           erecting in his garden stand for his twenty -foot telescope
                                     a                                                                                              ;

           many trials were necessary before the required motions for

           such an unwieldy machine could be contrived. Many

           attempts were made by way of experiment against a

           mirror before an intended thirty-foot telescope could be com

           pleted, for which, between whiles (not interrupting the

           observations with seven, ten, and twenty-foot, and writing

           papers for both the Royal and Bath Philosophical Societies)
           gauges, shapes, weight, &c, of the mirror were calculated,

           and trials of the composition of the metal were made. In

           short, saw nothing else and heard nothing else talked of
            it I

                                                 a
                                                                                                                         6,
           but about these things when my brothers were together.

           Alex was always very alert, assisting when anything new

           was going forward, but he wanted perseverance, and never

           liked to confine himself at home for many hours together.

           And so happened that my brother William was obliged to

            * He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society, Dee.                                                               1781.
42  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1775-1782.

make trial of my abilities in copying for him catalogues,
tables, &c, and sometimes whole papers which were lent
him for his perusal. Among them was one by Mr. Michel
and a catalogue of Christian Mayer in Latin, which kept me

Iemployed when my brother was at the telescope at night.

"When found that a hand was sometimes wanted when any

particular measures were to be made with the lamp micro
meter, &c, or a fire to be kept up, or a dish of coffee

Inecessary during a long night's watching, undertook with

....pleasure what others might have thought a hardship

ISince the discovery of the Georgium Sidus [March 13,

1781], believe few men of learning or consequence left

Bath before they had seen and conversed with its discoverer,
and thought themselves fortunate in finding him at home
on their repeated visits. Sir William Watson* was almost

an intimate, for hardly a day passed but he had something

to communicate from the letters which he received from Sir
Joseph Banks and other members of the Royal Society,
from which it appeared that my brother was expected
in town to receive the gold medal. The end of November
was the most precarious season for absenting himself. But
Sir William went with him, and it was arranged so that they
set out with the diligence at night, and by that means his

   * "About the latter end of this month [December, 1779] 1 happened to be
engaged in a scries of observations on the lunar mountains, and the moon
being in front of my house, late in the evening I brought my seven-feet reflec
tor into the street, and directed it to the object of my observations. Whilst

II was looking into the telescope, a gentleman coming by the place where
was stationed, stopped to look at the instrument. When I took my eye off

the telescope, he very politely asked if he might be permitted to look in, and

this being immediately conceded, he expressed great satisfaction at the view.
Next morning the gentleman, who proved to be Dr. Watson, jun. (now
Sir William), called at my house to thank me for my civility in showing him
the moon, and told me that there was a Literary Society then forming at

Hath, and invited me to become a member of it, to which I readily consented.''
-- ,S7r lV. HcrscheVs Journal. This occurred at a house in River Street, which
was soon changed for 19, New King Street.
Chap. II.]                      Life in Bath.                                   43

absence did not last above three or four days, when my

bro"tNheorwretuarnveedryalbounsey,  Sir William remaining with                  his father.
                                     winter was commencing                      ; for my

brother had engaged himself to conduct the oratorios con

jointly with Ronzini, and had made himself answerable for

the payment of the engaged performers, for his credit ever

stood high in the opinion of every one he had to deal with.
(He lost considerably by this arrangement.) But, though

at times much harassed with business, the mirror for

the thirty-foot reflector was never out of his mind, and if a

minute could but be spared in going from one scholar to

another, or giving one the slip, he called at home to see how

the men went on with the furnace, which was built in a room

bel"owT,heevmenirwroirthwtahse   garden.    in  a  mould  of loam               prepared
                                to be cast

from horse dung, of which an immense quantity was to be

pounded in a mortar and sifted through a fine sieve. It was

an endless piece of work, and served me for many an hour's

exercise ; and Alex frequently took his turn at for we were
it it

                              I
                                                                           it,
all eager to do something towards the great undertaking.

Even Sir William Watson would sometimes take the pestle

from me when he found me in the work-room, where he

expected to find his friend, in whose concerns he took so

much interest that he felt much disappointed at not being

allowed to pay for the metal. But do not think my brother

ever accepted pecuniary assistance from any one of his

friends, and on this occasion he declined the offer by saying

"waAsmpoanigd  for  already.        were        many  philosophical             gentle
               the  Bath visitors

men who used to frequent the levees at St. James's, when

in town. Colonel Walsh, in particular, informed my brother
that from a conversation he had had with His Majesty,

appeared that in the spring he was to come with his seven,

foot telescope to the King. Similar reports he received
44  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                           [1775-1782.

from many others, but they made no great impression nor

caused any interruption in his occupation or study, and as

soon as the season for the concerts was over, and the mould,

&c, in readiness, a day was set apart for casting, and the

metal was in the furnace, but unfortunately it began to leak

at the moment when ready for pouring, and both my

brothers and the caster with his men were obliged to run

out at opposite doors, for the stone flooring (which ought to
have been taken up) flew about in all directions, as high as

the ceiling. My poor brother fell, exhausted with heat and

exertion, on a heap of brickbats. Before the second casting

was attempted, everything which could ensure success had

been attended to, and a very perfect metal was found in the

mo"ulBdu, twahitcohtahlasdtocpracaknedd  in the cooling.  took place,  and
                                         derangement now

nearly six or seven months elapsed before my brother could

return to the undisturbed enjoyment of his instruments and

observations. For one morning in Passion week, as Sir

William Watson was with my brother, talking about the

pending journey to town, my eldest nephew* arrived to pay

us a visit, and brought the confirmation that his uncle was

expected with his instrument in town. A chaise was at the

door to take us to Bristol for a rehearsal in the forenoon,
of the ' Messiah,' which was to be performed the same evening.

The conductor being still lost in conversation with his friend,

was obliged to trust to my poor abilities for filling the music

box with the necessary parts for between ninety and one hun

dred performers. My nephew had travelled all night, but we

took him with us, for we had not one night in the week,

   * George Griesbach, who with the rest of the family settled in England,
where they all did well, their musical talents and connections bringing them
a good deal under the notice of the Court. Mr. G. Griesbach's youngest
daughter, Elizabeth, became the wife of Mr. Waterhouse, of the British
Museum. She died in 1874.
Chap, ii.]     Life in Bath.                   45

except Friday, but what was set apart for an oratorio either
at Bath or Bristol. Soon after Easter a new organ being
erected in St. James's Church, it was opened with two per
formances of the ' Messiah ;' this again took up some of my

....brother's time
               The Tuesday after Whit Sunday, May 8th, my
brother left Bath to join Sir William Watson at his father's
in Lincoln's Inn Fields, furnished with everything necessary
for viewing double stars, of which the first catalogue had
just then appeared in the ' Philosophical Transactions.' A
new seven-foot stand and steps were made to go in a

moderate sized box, to be screwed together on the spot
where wanted. Flamsteed's Atlas, in which the stars had

during the winter been numbered, catalogues of double
stars, micrometers, tables, &c, and everything which could
facilitate reviewing objects, had been attended to in the pre
paration for the journey.

    "But when almost double the time had elapsed which my

 brother could safely be absent from his scholars, Alex, as

 well as myself, were much at a loss how to answer their

 inquiries, for, from the letters we received, we could learn
 nothing but that he had been introduced to the King and

 Queen, and had permission to come to the concerts at
 Buckingham House, where the King conversed with him

 about astronomy."

  It was during his absence at this time that the three
following letters were written and received :--

Dear Lina, --
I have had an audience of His Majesty this morn
Iing, and met with a very gracious reception.
                                               presented

him with the drawing of the solar, system, and had the

honour of explaining it to him and the Queen. My
46             Caroline Lucretia Hcrschel.         [1775-1782.

Itelescope is in three weeks' time to go to Richmond, and
meanwhile to be put up at Greenwich, where         shall

Iaccordingly carry it to-daj^. So you see, Lina, that you
must not think of seeing me in less than a month.  shall

Iwrite to Miss Lee myself ; and other scholars who inquire

for me, you may tell that cannot wait on them till His Ma

I IJesty shall be pleased to give me leave to return, or rather
to dismiss me, for till then must attend.   will also write

Ito Mr. Palmer to acquaint him with it.
      am in a great hurry, therefore can write no more at

Ipresent. Tell Alexander that everything looks very likely

as if were to stay here. The King inquired after him, and

after my great speculum. He also gave me leave to come

to hear the Griesbachs play at the private concert which he

has every evening. My having seen the King need not be

Ikept a secret, but about my staying here it will be best not

to say anything, but only that must remain here till His

IMajesty has observed the planets with my telescope.
   Yesterday dined with Colonel Walsh, who inquired

after you. There were Mr. Aubert and Dr. Maskelyne. Dr.

Maskelyne in public declared his obligations to me for

having introduced to them the high powers, for Mr. Aubert

has so much succeeded with them that he says he looks

down upon 200, 300, or 400 with contempt, and immediately

begins with 800. He has used 2500 very completely, and

seen my fine double, stars with them. All my papers are

printing, with the postscript and all, and are allowed to be

Ivery valuable. You see, Lina, tell you all these things.
IYou know vanity is not my foible, therefore need not fear

your censure.  Farewell.

                    I am, your affectionate brother,

                                                 Wm. Herschel.

Saturday Morning,
          probably May 25.
Chai\ II.]    Life in Bath.                 47

              TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Dear Lina,--            Monday Evening, June 3, 1782.

I pass my time between Greenwich and London
Iagreeably enough, but am rather at a loss for work that
Ilike. Company is not always pleasing, and would much
Irather be polishing a speculum. Last Friday was at the

King's concert to hear George play. The King spoke to me

as soon as he saw me, and kept me in conversation for half

Ian hour. He asked George to play a solo-concerto on

purpose that might hear him ; and George plays extremely

Iwell, is very much improved, and the King likes him very

much. These two last nights have been star-gazing at

Greenwich with Dr. Maskelyne and Mr. Aubert. We have

compared our telescopes together, and mine was found very

Isuperior to any of the Royal Observatory. Double stars which

they could not see with their instruments had the pleasure

to show them very plainly, and my mechanism is so much

approved of that Dr. Maskelyne has already ordered a

model to be taken from mine and a stand to be made by it

to his reflector. He is, however, now so much out of love

with his instrument that he begins to doubt whether it
Ideserves a new stand.
                        have had the influenza, but am now
Iquite well again. It lasted only five or six days, and never

was confined with it. . . . There is hardly one single

Iperson here but what has had it.           ITo-morrow
        am introduced to the best company.

dine at Lord Palmerston's, next day with Sir Joseph Banks,

<&c, &c Among opticians and astronomers nothing now is

talked of but what they call my great discoveries. Alas !

Ithis shows how far they are behind, when such trifles as

Lave seen and done are called great. Let me but get at it
Iugain !    will make such telescopes, and see such things --
Ithat is, will endeavour to do so.
48  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.       [1775-1782.

   The letter ends abruptly  with this sentence, and
only one more was written    during this momentous
interval.

    TO MISS HERSCHEL.

    Dear Carolina, --                           July 3, 1782.
                                      that you will not
        I have been so much employed

wonder at my not writing sooner. The letter you sent me

last Monday came very safe to me. As Dr. Watson has

Ibeen so good as to acquaint you and Alexander with my

situation, was still more easy in my silence to you. Last

night the King, the Queen, the Prince of Wales, the Princess

Royal, Princess Sophia, Princess Augusta, &c, Duke of
Montague, Dr. Heberden, M. de Luc, &c, &c, saw my

telescope, and it was a very fine evening. My instrument
gave general satisfaction. The King has very good eyes,

and enjoys observations with telescopes exceedingly.
   This evening, as the King and Queen are gone to Kew, the

Princesses were desirous of seeing my telescope, but wanted

to know if it was possible to see without going out on the

grass, and were much pleased when they heard that my
telescope could be carried into any place they liked best to
have it. About 8 o'clock it was moved into the Queen's

Iapartments, and we waited some tinie in hopes of seeing

Jupiter or Saturn. Meanwhile showed the Princesses, and

several other ladies who were present, the speculum, the

micrometers, the movements of the telescope, and other

Ithings that seemed to excite their curiosity. When the

evening appeared to be totally unpromising, proposed an

artificial Saturn as an object, since we could not have the
I Ireal one.
    had beforehand prepared this little piece, as

guessed by the appearance of the weather in the afternoon

we should have no stars to look at. This being accepted
Chap. II.]  Impending Changes.  49

Iwith great pleasure, had the lamps lighted up which illu

minated the picture of a Saturn (cut out in pasteboard) at
the bottom of the garden wall. The effect was fine, and so

natural that the best astronomer might have been deceived.
Their royal highnesses and other ladies seemed to be much

pleased with the artifice.

  I remained in the Queen's apartment with the ladies till
Iabout half after ten, when in conversation with them

found them extremely well instructed in every subject that

was introduced, and they seemed to be most amiable
characters. To-morrow evening they hope to have better
luck, and nothing will give me greater happiness than to be
able to show them some of those beautiful objects with

which the heavens are so gloriously ornamented.

   "Sir 'William Watson returned to Bath after a fortnight or

three weeks' stay. From him we heard that my brother

was invited to Greenwich with the telescope, where he
was met by a numerous party of astronomical and learned

gentlemen, and trials of his instrument were made. In

these letters he complained of being obliged to lead an
idle life, having nothing to do but to pass between London
and Greenwich. Sir William received many letters which
he was so kind as to communicate to us. By these, and from

those to Alexander or to me, we learned that the King wished
to see the telescope at Windsor. At last a letter, dated July 2,

arrived from Therese, and from this and several succeeding

ones we gathered that the King would not suffer my brother
to return to his profession again, and by his writing several
times for a supply of money we could only suppose that he
himself was in uncertainty about the time of his return.

   In the last week of July my brother came home, and imme

diately prepared for removing to Datchet, where he had
taken a house with a garden and grass-plot annexed, quite
50          Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1782.

suitable for the purpose of an observing-place. Sir Wm.

Watson spent nearly the whole time at our house, and he

was not the only friend who truly grieved at my brother's

going from Bath ; or feared his having perhaps agreed to no

very advantageous offers ; their fears were, in fact, not with

out reason  The prospect of entering again on the

toils of teaching, &c, which awaited my brother at home

(the months of leisure being now almost gone by), appeared

to him an intolerable waste of time, and by way of alternative

he chose to be Royal Astronomer, with a salary of £200

a year. Sir William Watson was the only  on"eNteovewr hobmougthhet
sum was mentioned, and he exclaimed,

monarch honour so cheap !" To every other inquirer, my

brother's answer was that the King had provided for him.

    Everything was immediately packed for the removal,
and on the 1st of August, when the brothers and sister

walked over to Datchet from Slough (where the coach
passed), they found the waggon, with its precious load
of instruments, as well as household furniture, waiting
to be unpacked. The new home was a large neglected
place, the house in a deplorably ruinous condition, the

garden and grounds overgrown with weeds. For a

fortnight they had no female servant at all ; an old
Avoman, the gardener's wife, showed Miss Herschel
the shops, where the prices of everything, from coals
to butcher's meat, appalled her. But these consi
derations weighed for nothing in her brother's eyes
against the delight of stables where mirrors could be

ground, a roomy laundry, which was to serve for a
library, with one door opening on a large grass-plot,
Chap, ii.]        Removal to Dalchet.                                                       51

where " the small twenty-foot " was to be erected ; he

gaily assured her that they could live on eggs and
bacon, which would cost nothing to speak of now that
they were really in the country !

   The beginning of October, Alexander was obliged to returna

Ito Bath. The separation was truly painful to us all, and!

was particularly affected by for till now had not had timea
to consider the consequence of giving up the prospect of
making myself independent by becoming (with little moreit,

uninterrupted application) useful member of the musical proI
fession. But besides that my brother William would have beenI

very much at loss for my assistance, had not spirit enough                        a
to throw myself on the public after losing his protection.
               .
   Poor Alexander we had hoped at first to persuade him
to change Bath for London, where he had the offer of thea
                                            a
most profitable engagements, and we should then have had
him near us . . but he refused, and before we saw hima

again the next year he was married.
    Much of my brother's time was taken up in going, when

the evenings were clear, to the Queen's Lodge to show the

King, &c, objects through the seven-foot. But when the
days began to shorten, this was found impossible, for
the telescope was often (at no small expense and risk
of damage) obliged to be transported in the dark back to
Datchet, for the purpose of spending the rest of the night

with observations on double stars for second Catalogue.
My brother was besides obliged to be absent for week
or ten days for the purpose of bringing home the metal of
the cracked thirty-foot mirror, and the remaining materials

from his work-room. Before the furnace was taken down

 at Bath, second twenty-foot mirror, twelve-inch diameter,
was cast, which happened to be very fortunate, for on the

                                                                                     b
                                                                                         2
52     Caroline Lucrctia HerscJiel.       [i"83.

I1st of January, 1783, a very fine one cracked by frost in the
tube.  remember to have seen the thermometer 1\ degree

.... Ibelow zero for several nights in the same year
             In my brother's absence from home, was of course
I Ileft solely to amuse myself with my own thoughts, which were
anything but cheerful.  found was to be trained for an

I Iasmgcslaeoss.pisseetasa,ndwtsa-aaupscstehtr"doatnsfoooarmsrwe"eersce,wopmaefneomdproincbngoyly,m"wueacstyoesn,do"sfiiasnnteidnnacgo"uofsriefanegadeebtmruy,eb"mnetwywajsioathugtrietvnwleeaonl
Ithat began August 22nd, 1782, to
Iall remarkable appearances saw    write  down and describe
                                   in my
                                           " sweeps," which

were horizontal. But it was not till the last two months of

Ithe same year that felt the least encouragement to spend the

star-light nights on a grass-plot covered with dew or hoar

Ifrost, without a human being near enough to be within call.
   knew too little of the real heavens to be able to point out
every object so as to find it again without losing too much time

Iby consulting the Atlas. But all these troubles were removed

when knew my brother to be at no great distance making

observations with his various instruments on double stars,

Iplanets, &c, and could have bis assistance immediately
I Iwhen found a nebula, or cluster of stars, of which
Iintended to give a catalogue ; but at the end of 1788 had

only marked fourteen, when my sweeping was interrupted

Iby being employed to write down my brother's observations

with the large twenty-foot. had, however, the comfort to see

that my brother was satisfied with my endeavours to assist

him when he wanted another person, either to run to the

clocks, write down a memorandum, fetch and cany instru

ments, or measure the ground with poles, &c, &c, of

which something of the kind every moment would occur.

For the assiduity with which the measurements on the

diameter of the Georgium Sidus, and observations of other
Chaj. ii]  Life at Datchct.  53

planets, double stars, &c, &c, were made, was incredible,

as may be seen by the various papers that were given to
the Royal Society in 1783, which papers were written in the

daytime, or when cloudy nights interfered. Besides this, the
twelve-inch speculum was perfected before the spring, and
many hours were spent at the turning bench, as not a night
clear enough for observing ever passed but that some

improvements were planned for perfecting the mounting and
motions of the various instruments then in use, or some

trials were made of new constructed eye-pieces, which were
mostly executed by my brother's own hands. Wishing to
save his time, he began to have some work of that kind

done by a watchmaker who had retired from business

and lived on Datchet Common, but the work was* so bad,

and the charges so unreasonable, that he could not be

employed. It was not till some time afterwards in his

frequent visits to the meetings of the Royal Society (made
in moonlight nights), that he had an opportunity of looking

about for mathematical workmen, opticians, and founders.

But the work seldom answered expectation, and it was

 kept to be executed with improvements by Alexander during

 the few months he spent with us.
    The summer months passed in the most active prepara

 tion for getting the large twenty-foot ready against the next
 winter. The carpenters and smiths of Datchet were in daily

 requisition, and as soon as patterns for tools and mirrors were

 ready, my brother went to town to have them cast, and during
 the three or four months Alexander could be absent from

 Bath, the mirrors and optical parts were nearly completed.
    But that the nights after a day of toil were not given to

 rest, may be seen by the observations on Mars, of which a

 paper, dated December 1, 1783, was given to the Royal

 Society. Some trouble also was often thrown away during

 those nights in the attempt to teach me to re-measure
54  Caroline Lucre tia Hcrschel.          [i"S3.

double stars with the same micrometers with which former

Imeasures had been taken, and the small twenty-foot was
given me for that purpose   had also to ascertain

their places by a transit instrument lent for that purpose
by Mr. Dalrymple, but after many fruitless attempts it was
seen that the instrument was perhaps as much in fault as

Imy observations.

   July 8.-- began to use the new Newtonian small sweeper,

(for a description of this instrument see note to Neb. No. 1,
V. class, at the end of the catalogue of first 1000 Neb. and

ICl.), but it could hardly be expected that should meet
Iwith any comets in the part of the heavens where swept,
Ifor generally chose my situation by the side of my bro
Ither's instrument, that might be ready to run to the clock
Ior write down memorandums. In the beginning of Decem

ber became entirely attached to the writing-desk, and

had seldom an opportunity after that time of using my

newly-acquired instrument.

   My brother began his series of sweeps when the instru

Iment was yet in a very unfinished state, and my feelings

were not very comfortable when eveiy moment was

alarmed by a crack or fall, knowing him to be elevated
fifteen feet or more on a temporary cross-beam instead of a

safe gallery. The ladders had not even their braces at the

bottom ; and one night, in a veiy high wind, he had hardly

touched the ground before the whole apparatus came down.

Some labouring men were called up to help in extricating

the mirror, which was fortunately uninjured, but much work

was cut out for carpenters next day.      were not wholly
                                          the night of the
  IThat my fears of danger and accidents

imaginary, had an unlucky proof on

31st December. The evening had been cloudy, but about

ten o'clock a few stars became visible, and in the greatest

hurry all was got ready for observing. My brother, at the
Chap. II.]  Life at Datchet.                         55

front of the telescope, directed me to make some alteration

in the lateral motion, which was done by machinery, on

which the point of support of the tube and mirror rested.

At each end of the machine or trough was an iron hook,

such as butchers use for hanging their joints upon, and

Ihaving to run in the dark on ground covered a foot deep

with melting snow, fell on one of these hooks, which en

            leg above the knee. My brother's         call,
               could only answer by a pitiful cry,     am
                                                      me,
            and the workmen were instantly with
I "Ith"eorMoekadekdem!yh"asrtigeHh!et"

but they could not lift me without leaving nearly two ounces

Iof my flesh behind. The workman's wife was called, but

was afraid to do anything, and was obliged to be my own

surgeon by applying aquabusade and tying a kerchief about

it for some days, till Dr. Lind, hearing of my accident,

Ibrought me ointment and lint, and told me how to use

them. At the end of six weeks began to have some fears

about my poor limb, and asked again for Dr. Lind's opinion :
he said if a soldier had met with such a hurt he would have
Ibeen entitled to six weeks' nursing in a hospital.
                                                     had,

however, the comfort to know that my brother was no loser

through this accident, for the remainder of the night was

cloudy, and several nights afterwards afforded only a few short

intervals favourable for sweeping, and until the 16th January

there was no necessity for my exposing myself for a whole

Inight to the severity of the season.
      could give a pretty long list of accidents which were

near proving fatal to my brother as well as myself. To make

observations with such large machinery, where all around is

in darkness, is not unattended with danger, especially when

personal safety is the last thing with which the mind is
occupied ; even poor Piazzi * did not go home without get-

   * This eminent astronomer made inquiries after Miss Herschel long years

afterwards, as is related in the correspondence. See letter from Sir J.

Herschel, dated Catania, 1824, p. 174.
56  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1784-1785.

ting broken shins by falling over the rack-bar, which projects
in high altitudes in front of the telescope, when in the hurry

the cap had been forgotten to be put over it.
   Tn the long days of the summer months many ten- and

seven-foot mirrors were finished ; there was nothing but
grinding and polishing to be seen. For ten-foot several had

been cast with ribbed backs by way of experiment to reduce

Ithe weight in large mirrors. In my leisure hours

ground seven-foot and plain mirrors from rough to fining
down, and was indulged with polishing and the last finishing
of a very beautiful mirror for Sir "William Watson.

   An account of the discoveries made with the twenty-foot
and the improvements of the mechanical parts of that instru

ment during the winter of 1785, is given with the Catalogue
of the first 1000 new nebulae. By which account it must
plainly appear that the expenses of these improvements, and
those which were yet to be made in the apparatus of the

twenty-foot (which in fact proved to be a model of a larger
instrument), could not be supplied out of a salary of ^200

a year, especially as my brother's finances had been too

much reduced during the six months before he received

his first quarterly payment of fifty pounds (which was
Michaelmas, 1782). Travelling from Bath to London,
Greenwich, Windsor, backwards and forwards, transporting
the telescope, &c, breaking up his establishment at Bath

and forming a new one near the Court, all this, even

leaving such personal conveniences as he had for many

years been used to, out of the question, could not be obtained
for a trifle; a good large piece of ground was required
for the use of the instruments, and a habitation in which he

could receive and offer a bed to an astronomical friend, was

necessary after a night's observation.

  It seemed to be supposed that enough had been done when

my brother was enabled to leave his profession that he might
Chap, II.] Removal from Datchet to Clay Hall.  57

have time to make and sell telescopes. The King ordered
four ten-foot himself, and many seven-foot besides had been
bespoke, and much time had already been expended on
polishing the mirrors for the same. But all this was only
retarding the work of a thirty or forty-foot instrument, which
it was my brother's chief object to obtain as soon as possible ;
for he was then on the wrong side of forty-five, and felt how
great an injustice he would be doing to himself and to the
cause of Astronomy by giving up his time to making tele

scopes for other observers.

   Sir William Watson, who often in the lifetime of his

father came to make some stay with us at Datchet, saw my

brother's difficulties, and expressed great dissatisfaction.
On his return to Bath he met among the visitors there
several belonging to the Court (among the rest Mde.

Schwellenberg), to whom he gave his opinion concerning

his friend and his situation very freely. In consequence of

this my brother had soon after, through Sir J. Banks, the

promise that £2000 would be granted for enabling him to

make himself an instrument.

    Immediately every preparation for beginning the great

work commenced. A very ingenious smith (Campion), who

was seeking employment, was secured by my brother, and
a temporary forge erected in an upstairs room.

   It soon became evident that the big, tumble-down

old house, which had been taken possession of with

such eagerness, would not do : the rain came through
the ceilings ; the damp situation brought on ague, and

in June the brother and sister left it for a place called
Clay Hall, Old Windsor. But here again unlooked-for
troubles arose in consequence of the landlady being a
58  Caroline Lucre lia Herschel.       [1786.

" litigious woman," who refused to be bound to reason

able terms, and at length, on the 3rd of April, 1786,
the house and garden at Slough were taken, and all the

apparatus and machinery immediately removed there.

.... IAnd here must remember that among all this

hurrying business, every moment nfter daylight was allotted

to observing. The last night at Clay Hall was spent in

sweeping till daylight, and by the next evening the telescope

stood ready for observation at Slough  A workman for

the brass and optical parts was engaged, and two smiths

were at work throughout the summer on different parts for

the forty-foot telescope, and a whole troop of labourers were

engaged in grinding the iron tools to a proper shape for the

mirror to be ground on (the polishing and grinding by
machines was not begun till about the end of 1788). These

heavy articles were cast in town, and caused my brother fre

quent journeys to London, they were brought by water as

far as Windsor  At Slough no steady out-of-door

workman for the sweeping handle could be met with, and a

man-servant was engaged as soon as one could be found lit

for the purpose. Meanwhile  Campion     assisted, but many
memorandums were put down              a neb. by the blunder
                            : " Lost
Ifof the person at the handle."
                                 it had not been sometimes
Ifor the intervention of a cloudy or moonlight night, know
Inot when my brother (or either), should have got any

sleep ; for with the morning came also his workpeople, of

whom there were no less than between thirty and forty at

work for upwards of three months together, some employed

in felling and rooting out trees, some digging and pre

paring the ground for the bricklayers who were laying the

foundation for the telescope, and the carpenter in Slough,

with all his men. The smith, meanwhile, was converting a
Chap, ii.] Removalfrom Clay Hall to Slough.  59

washhouse into a forge, and manufacturing complete sets of
tools required for the work he was to enter upon. Many

expensive tools also were furnished by the ironmongers in
Windsor, as well for the forge as for the turner and brass man.

In short, the place was at one time a complete workshop for
making optical instruments, and it was a pleasure to go into it

to see how attentively the men listened to and executed their

Imaster's orders ; had frequent opportunities for doing this
Iwhen was obliged to run to him with my papers or slate,
Iwhen stopped in my work by some doubt or other.

        cannot leave this subject without regretting, even
twenty years after, that so much labour and expense
should have been thrown away on a swarm of pilfering

Iwork-people, both men and women, with which Slough,

believe, was particularly infested. For at last everything

that could be carried away was gone, and nothing but rubbish

Ileft. Even tables for the use of workrooms vanished : one

in particular remember, the drawer of which was filled
was slips of experiments made on the rays of light and
heat, was lost out of the room in which the women had been
ironing. This could not but produce the greatest disorder
and inconvenience in the library and in the room into which

the apparatus for observing had been moved, when the

observatory was wanted for some other purpose ; they
were at last so encumbered by stores and tools of all sorts

that no room for a desk or an Atlas remained. It

required my utmost exertion to rescue the manuscripts in
hand from destruction by falling into unhallowed hands or

Ibeing devoured by mice.

   But will now return to July, 1786, when my brother

was obliged to deliver a ten-foot telescope as a present from
the King to the Observatory of Gottingen. Before he left

Slough on July 3rd, the stand of the forty-foot telescope

stood on two circular walls capped with Portland stone
60       Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                        [1786.

(which, cracking by frost, were afterwards covered with

oak) ready to receive the tube. The smith was left to con
tinue to work at the tube, which was sufficient employment

cut out for him before he would want farther direction.

IThe mirror was also pretty far advanced, and ready for the

polish, for remember to have seen twelve or fourteen men

daily employed in grinding or polishing.

   To give a description of the task (or rather tasks) which

Ifell to my share, the readiest way think will be to tran
Iscribe out
    o"f                                               that  time,
and called
         a day-book which began  to       keep    at
         Book of work done."
July 3. --My brothers William and Alex, left Slough to

begin their journey to Germany. Mrs. [Alex.] Herschel was
I Ileft with me at Slough. By way of not suffering too much
by sadness, began with bustling work.         cleaned all the

brass-work for seven and ten-foot telescopes, and put

curtains before the shelves to hinder the dust from settling

Iupon them again.

   4th. -- cleaned and put the polishing-room in order, and
made the gardener clear the work-yard, put everything in

Isafety, and mend the fences.                     In the after

   5th. -- spent the morning in needle-work.      We chose the
noon went with Mrs. Herschel to Windsor.

hours from two to six for shopping and other business,

to be from home at the time most unlikely for any

persons to call, but there had been four foreign gentlemen

looking at the instruments in the garden, they had not

left their names. In the evening Dr. and Mrs. Kelly (Mr.

IDollond's daughter) and Mr. Gordon came to see me.
   6th. -- put all the philosophical letters in order, and

the collection of each year in a separate cover.

  I12th.-- put paper in press for a register, and calculated

for Flamsteed's Catalogue.
Chap, ii.]  Life and Work at Slough.                  61

Mem. --When Flamsteed's Catalogue was brought into

zones in 1783, it was only taken up at 45° from the Pole, the

apparatus not being then ready for sweeping in the zenith.
   By July 23rd the whole Catalogue was completed all but

writing it in the clear, which at that time was a very neces

sary provision, as it was not till the year 1789 that

Wollaston's Catalogue made its appearance. Many sweeps

nearer the Pole than the register of sweeps, which only

began at 45°, being made, it became necessary to provide a

register for marking those sweeps and the nebulae dis

covered in them.
   14th. --Dr. and Mrs. Maskelyne called here with Dr.

IShepherd.

   15th. -- spent the day with Mrs. Herschel at Mrs.

Kelly's. We met Dr. and Mrs. Maskelyne and Dr.
Shepherd, Marquis of Huntley, &c, &c, there.
                                                   »
  I16th. -- ruled part of the register of sweeps.
            ** #·

  I18th. -- spent the whole day in ruling paper for the
Iregister ; except that at breakfast cut out ruffles for shirts.

IMr. and Mrs. Kelly and Mrs. Ramsden (Dollond's sister)
called this evening.  tried to sweep, but it is cloudy, and

the moon rises at half-past ten.

   19th. --In the evening we swept from eleven till one.
   20th. -- Prince Charles (Queen's brother) Duke of Saxe-

IGotha and the Duke of Montague were here this morning.
   had a message from the King to show them the in

struments.
             * ·»##

  I had intended to go on with my Diary till my brother's
Ireturn, but it would be tedious, so of the rest shall give

only a summary account, and will mention in this place that

all what follows would but be the same thing over again ; for
the advantage of being quietly at work in the presence of
62  Caroline Lncrctia Hcrschel.                [irse.

Imy brother to whom could apply for information the moment

Ia doubt occurred, never returned again, and often have

been racking my poor brains through a day and a night to
Ivery little
Imemoranda
    poufrp"osweo. rk   found it  necessary to  continue my
                      done " to  the last day  had the care
Iof my brother's MS. papers. But had rather copy a few

Idays more, as they contain the discovery of my first comet,

and will serve also to show that attempted to register all

discovered nebulae, after a precept my brother had left me,
as this was necessary for revising the MS. of the catalogue of

the first thousand nebulae, which he expected at his return

Ito find ready for correction from the printers.
   22nd. -- calculated all the day for Flamsteed's Cata

logue. Lord Mulgrave called this evening
   23rd. --Received letters from Hanover. Finished cal

culating for Flamsteed's Catalogue.

    The two following short letters were carefully
preserved, and, though they contain nothing of im
portance, they arc of interest as being of the very
few from the same pen which are not on scientific

subjects.

    FROM W. HERSCHEL TO CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

Dear Sister, --           Hanover, Friday, July 14, 1786.

    This mooring we arrived safely at Hanover. We are

a little tired, but perfectly well in health. We travelled

Iextra post all the way through very bad roads. The post

is going out in a very little time, so that write in a hurry

that you might hear from us so much sooner.   After a night
Ior two of sleep here (by way of recovery)     shall go on
Ito Gottingen ; but when                     my thoughts
                          have collected
Chat. II.]        Life and Work at Slough.                   63

Ibetter together will write more. Mamma is perfectly well

Iand looks well. Jacob looks a little older, but not nearly so

much as expected. In Sophy [Mrs. Griesbach] there is

hardly any change, but a few white hairs on her head.

John [Dietrich] is just the same as before,

Iseems to be a charming creature. Farewell,
Ihope we shall see you again in a few weeks.
                                            his little boy
                                            dear Lina.

                                                must finish

for Alexander to write. Adieu once more.

       FROM V. HERSCHEL TO CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

Deaii Lina, --                              [August, 1786.]

       IWe are still in Hanover, and find it a most agree
able place.       have been in Gottingen, where Jacob went

along with me, and the King's telescope arrived there in

perfect order. The Society of Gottingen have elected me

a member. We long very much to hear from you, as we

have never had a letter yet. This is the fourth we have

sent you, and we hope you received the former ones. This

day fortnight we have fixed for our setting out from this

place, and be assured that we shall be happy to see old

England again, though old Germany is no bad place.
IYesterday and the day before have seen the Bishop of
IfOsnaburgh and the Prince Edward.
                                    an inquiry should

be made about our return, you may say (I hope with truth)

that we shall be back by about the 24th of August. Adieu,

Lina.

I24th. -- registered some sweeps in present time and Pole
Idistance. Prince Resonico came with Dr. Shepherd to see
the instruments.  swept from ten till one.
       *#***
I28th. -- wrote part of Flamstesd's Catalogue in the
clear. It was a stormy night, we could not go to bed.
64       Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                    [1786.

I29th. -- paid the smith. He received to-day the plates for

the forty-foot tube. Above half of them are bad, but he thinks

Ithere will be as many good among them as will be wanted,

and believe he intends to keep the rest till they return.

Paid the gardener for four days which he worked with the
Ismith.
         registered sweeps to-day. By way of memoran
I Idum will set down in this book in what manner proceed.
    I began some time ago with the last sweep which is
booked in the old register (Flamsteed's time and P. D.),

Iviz., 571, and at different times booked 570, 569, 568, 567,
I566, 565. To-day booked 564 ; 563 is marked not to be
Iregistered ; 560 and 561 was obliged to pass over on
Iaccount of some difficulty. The rest of the day wrote in

Flamsteed's Catalogue. The storm continued all the day,

Ibut now, 8 o'clock, it turns to a gentle rain.
   30th. -- wound up the sidereal timepiece, Field's and

Alexander's clocks, and made covers for the new and old

I Iregisters.                                           was
    31st.-- booked 558, 557, and 554; 556, 555,

I Iobliged to leave out on account of some difficulty.
    Mem. -- find  cannot go on fast enough with the

Iregistering of sweeps to be serviceable to the Catalogue of

Nebulae. Therefore will begin immediately to recalculate

Ithem, and hope to finish them before they return. Besides,
   think the consequences of registering the sweepS back

wards will be bad.

  IAugust 1. -- have counted one hundred nebulae to-day,
I Iand this evening saw an object which believe will prove

I Ito-morrow night to be a comet.          fear it will not

   2nd. -- To-day calculated 150 nebulre.
be clear to-night. It has been raining throughout the whole

day, but seems now to clear up a little.

  I I1 o'clock^-- The object of last night is a comet.

   3rd. -- did not go to rest till had wrote to Dr. Blagden
Chap, ii.]  Slough. -- The first Comet.                     65

Iand Mr. Aubert to announce the comet. After a few hours'

sleep, went in the afternoon to Dr. Lind, who, with Mr.
Cavallo, accompanied me to Slough, with the intention of
seeing the comet, but it was cloudy, and remained so all night.

            MISS HEKSCHEL TO DR. BLAGDEN.

Slli --                                    August 2, 1786.

      IIn consequence of the friendship which know to
Iexist between you and my brother, venture to trouble you,

in his absence, with the following imperfect account of a
comet :--

The employment of writing down the observations when

my brother uses the twenty-foot reflector does not often allow

Ime time to look at the heavens, but as he is now on a visit

to Germany, have taken the opportunity to sweep in

the neighbourhood of the sun in search of comets; and

Ilast night, the 1st of August, . about 10 o'clock, found an

object very much resembling in colour and brightness the

I27 nebula of the Connoissance des Temps, with the differ
ence, however, of being round.  suspected it to be a

comet; but a haziness coming on, it was not possible

Ito satisfy myself as to its motion till this evening.

   made several drawings of the stars in the field of view

with it, and have enclosed a copy of them, with my obser

vations annexed, that you may compare them together.

August 1, 1786, 9h 50'. Fig. 1. The object in the centre

Iis like a star out of focus, while the rest are perfectly distinct,

and suspect it to be a comet.

10h 38'. Fig. 2. The suspected comet makes now a

perfect isosceles triangle with the two stars a and b.
I11* 8'.
            think the situation of the comet is now as in
IFig. 3, but it is so hazy that cannot sufficiently see the

small star b to be assured of the motion.

                                                        i
66          Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.                     [i7S6.

    By the naked eye the comet is betweeii the 54 and 53

Ursa? Majoris and the 14, 15, and 16 Comae Berenices, and

makes an obtuse triangle with them, the vertex of which

is turned towards the south.

    Aug. 2nd, 10h 9'. The comet is now, with respect to the

stars a and b, situated as in Fig. 4, therefore the motion

since last night is evident.

    10h 30'. Another considerable star, c, may be taken into

the field with it by placing a in the centre, when the comet

and the other star will both appear in the circumference, as

in Fig. 5.

    These observations were made with a Newtonian sweeper

Iof 27-inch focal length, and a power of about 20. The
field of view is 2° 12'.      cannot find the stars a or c in any

catalogue, but suppose they may easily be traced in the

heavens, whence the situation of the comet, as it was last

night at 10h 33', may be pretty nearly ascertained.

You will do me the favour of communicating these

Iobservations to my brother's astronomical friends.
                                    have the honour to be,

                              Sir,

              Your most obedient, humble servant,

August 2nd, 1786.                   Carolina Herschel.

      Slough, near Windsor.

            MISS HERSCHEL TO ALEX. AUBERT, ESQ.

Dear Sir, --                        Slough, August 2, 1786.

    IAugust 1st, in the evening, at 10 o'clock, saw an

object very much resembling (in colour and brightness) the

27 of Mr. Messier's Nebulse, except this object being round.
I suspected it to be a comet ; but a haziness came on before
I Icould convince myself of its having moved.
                                                            made
Iseveral figures of the objects in the field, whereof take the
Chap, ii.]  Slough. -- The first Comet.       67

liberty to send the first, that you might compare it with

Iwhat saw to-night.

  IIn Fig. 1 observed the nebulous spot in the centre, a

bright red but small star upwards, another very faint whtye

star following, and in the situation as marked in the figure.

IThere is a third star preceding, but exceedingly faint.

suspected several more, which may perhaps appear in a

finer evening, but they were not distinct enough to take

account of.

  In Fig. 2, August 2nd, are only the red and its follow

ing star: the preceding, in Fig. 1, is partly hid in the rays

I Iof the comet, and by one or two glimpses had, think it

Iis got before it.
In Fig. 3           took the comet in the edge by way of

taking in the assistance of another star of about the same

size and colour as that in the centre.

  IThe only stars can possibly see with the naked eye

which might be of service to point out the place of the
comet are 53 and 54 Urs;e Maj., from which it is at about an

Iequal distance with the 14, 15, and 16 Comae Ber., and
makes an obtuse angle with them.  think it must be about

I1° above the parallel of the 15 Conue.
        made these observations with my little Newtonian

sweeper, and used a power of about 30 : the field is about

I I1^ degree.                                 give you with
      hope, sir, you will excuse the trouble

my wag [qy. vague] description, which is owing to my being

Ia bad (or what is better) no observer at all. For these

last three years have not had an opportunity to look as

Imany hours in the telescope.

   Lastly, beg of you, sir, if this comet should not have

been seen before, to take it under your protection in regard
to A. E. and D. C.
GS             Caroline Lucretia Herschcl.          [17S6.

I With my respectful compliments to the ladies, your sisters,
   have the honour to be,
                                            Sir,

                       Your most obedient, humble servant,
                                                       Car. Herschel.

               DR. BLAODEN TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                     Gower Street, Bedford Square,

Madam, --                                   August 5, 1786.

    Mr. Aubert's letter, as well as that with which you

favoured me, both arrived safe. The evening was fine on

Thursday, but Mr. Aubert was prevented from going to
ILoam Pit Hill, and
                     have no opportunity of making
Iastronomical observations here, so that believe the comet

has not yet been seen by anyone in England but yourself.

Yesterday the visitation of the Royal Observatory at

Greenwich was held, where most of the principal astrono

mers in and near London attended, which afforded an

Iopportunity of spreading the news of your discovery, and

doubt not but many of them will verify it the next clear
Inight.
         also mentioned it in a letter to Paris, and in
Ianother had occasion to write to Munich, in Germany.
If the weather should be favourable on Sunday evening, it

is not impossible that Sir Joseph Banks and some friends

from his house may wait upon you to beg the favour of

viewing this phenomenon through your telescope.

    Accept my best thanks for your obliging attention in

communicating to me the news, and believe me to be, with

great esteem,

               Your obedient, humble servant,
                                                 C. Blagden.
chap, ii.]       Slough. -- Thc first Comet.                                    09

            ALEX. AUBERT, ESQ., TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Dear Miss Herschel, --               London, 1th August, 1788.

IIthink      am sure you have a better opinion of me than to
            have been ungrateful for your very, very kind letter
Iof the 2nd August. You will have judged wished to give
I Iyou some account of your comet before answered it.
Iwish you jo3-, most sincerely, on the discovery. am more

I Ipleased than you can well conceive that you have made it,
and  think see your wonderfully clever and wonderfully

                                     it,

                                                     a
                                                                              a
amiable brother, upon the news of                                        shed tear of joy.

You have immortalized your name, and you deserve such

reward from the Being who has ordered all these things to

move as we find them, for your assiduity in the business of

astronomy, and for your love for so celebrated and so

deserving brother.  received your very kind letter about
            it a

                       I

                                                                      ;

                                  I it
                                                         is
*****fixed star, on Saturday night and Sunday night
the comet on the 3rd, but have not been able to observe
                                                                         I
till Saturday, the 5th, owing to cloudy weather.
                                                                                       it it
                                                                                found

immediately by your directions                                           very curious, and in

every respect as you describe it.                                      have compared to
                                                                                it

                                                                                          a

You see travels very fast -- at the rate of 2° 10' per day --

and moves but little in N. P. D. These observations were

made with an equatorial micrometer of Mr. Smeaton's con

struction, which your brother must recollect to have seen at

Loam Pit Hill.   need not tell you that meridian observa
                 I
                                 I

                                                                             a
tions with my transit instrument and mural quadrant must

have been much more accurate.                                          give you little figure

of its appearance last night and the preceding night upon

the scale of Flamsteed's Atlas Ccelestis [here follows the

sketch-figure].

     By the above, you will see  it  will be very near 19 of
70       Caroline Lucrclia Herschel.          [1786.

Coma? Berenices to-night, and it will be a curious observa

tion if it should prove an occultation of one of the stars of

Ithe Comse. Notice has been given to astronomers at home
and abroad of the discovery.  shall continue to observe it,
and will give you by-and-by a further account of it. In the

meanwhile believe me to be, with much gratitude and

regard,

         Dear Miss Herschel,
                  Your most obedient and obliged

                               humble servant,

                                               Alex. Aubert.

    IP.S.-- was glad to hear to-day, by my friends at our clubr

that they had seen you last night in good health ; pray let

Ime know what news you have of your brother, and when we
may expect to see him.  have had twice at Loam Pit Hill

his serene highness the Duke of Saxe Gotha, and enter

tained him, Count Bruhl, and Mr. Oriani (a Milanese astro

nomer), with your comet last night. My sisters return you.

many thanks for your kind remembrance, and, with their

best compliments, enjoin me to wish you joy.

         MISS HERSCHEL TO DIETRICH HERSCHEL.

    Dear Brother, --          Slough, August 4, 1786.

         We received yesterday William's and Alexander's

letter, and find that they intend to leave Hanover on the 8th:

of August, therefore they will not see the contents of this.
IHowever, as you have an instrument,
                                      think you are
Ientitled to information of a telescopic comet which
Ihappened to discover on the 1st of August, and which

found, by the observations of the 2nd, to have moved

Inearly three-quarters of a degree. Last night it was cloudy,,

but hope the weather will be more favourable another
Chap. II.]      Employments at Slough.                    71

Inight, that we may see a little more of it.  believe you
Ihave a pah' of Harris's maps ; the place where saw the

comet is between 53 and 54 Ursse Maj. and the 14, 15, and

16 Comte Ber. of Flamsteed's Catalogue. All stars of
Flamst. are in Bode's Cat. to be found, and if you cannot do

Iwithout it, dare say it is to be met with at Hanover. . . .
  I found it with a magnifier of about 30, with a field of

Iabout 1\ degree. Now, if you have a piece which is nearly

like this, would advise you to make use of that in sweeping

all around this place, for it must be, by the time you receive

Ithis letter, at a considerable distance.
When saw        it,  appeared like very bright, but round,
                       a
small nebula.    I it
                                          it

                                           I
The first letter received from Hanover from William

gave us the greatest satisfaction imaginable, for contained

an account of the good health of all our dear relations.

hope our dear mother does not grieve too much now they

have left her. II  dare say William will pay soon another

visit, and then will take that opportunity of coming to see

her. Farewell, dear brother; give my best love, &c

   To this period of Miss Herschel's life belongs folioa
manuscript book, written with the utmost neatness,
which she sent with one of her various consignments

of papers to her nephew after her return to Hanover,

and introduced as follows --

   Dear Nephew, --
          This the fragment of book which was too bulky

for the portfolio in which was collecting such papers as
wished might not fall into any other but your own hands.
They contain chiefly answers of your father to the inquiries

   used to make when at breakfast before we separated each
for our daily tasks.
I
                      is
                    I
                                                                                       :
                                                                a
                                                   I
72  Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.            [i?86-i787.

   The information is of a very miscellaneous kind,
but matters connected with her special study form

the greater part of the questions. For instance : --

**********" Given the true time of the transit--take a transit.
      Do the same thing another way.
      To find what star Mercury is nearest.
       Take its place in the Nautical Almanac
       Another way

      Time of a star's motion to be turned into space.
    To adjust the quadrant when fastened to the telescope.

         ** * * *

    A logarithm given, to find the angle.

    Oblique spherical triangles."

I4th. -- wrote to-day to Hanover, booked my observations,

and made a fair copy of three letters. Made accounts.

The night is cloudy.

  I5th. -- calculated nebula all day. The night was toler
Iably fine, and saw the comet.

  I6th. -- booked my observations of last night. Received

a letter from Dr. Blagden in the morning, and in the evening

Sir J. Banks, Lord Palmerston, and Dr. Blagden, came and

saw the comet. The evening was very fine.

   7th, 8th. --Booked my observations ; was hindered much

by being obliged to find a man to assist the smith. Dr.
Lind and Mr. Cavallo came on the 8th, and Mr. Paradise

Iin the afternoon, but the evening was cloudy.         a

   9th. -- calculated 100 nebulrc
   lOth. -- Calculated 100 nebuhe. The smith borrowed

guinea. He complains of Turner (the gardener), but we
will, if possible, have patience till my brother returns.
Chap. ii.]  Employments at Slough.                     73

  Wth. I    completed to-day the catalogue      of the first
                 calculated 200 nebulae of the  second thou
thousand.

    VMh

sand.

13th. Professor Kratzensteine, from Copenhagen, was
Ihere to-day. In the evening saw the comet and swept.
I14th
            calculated 140 nebulae to-day, which

brought me up to the last discovered nebula, and, therefore,

Ithis work is finished.
15th.       went up with Mrs. H. to Windsor to pay some

bills and to buy several articles against my brother's return.

16th        my brothers returned about three in the

afternoon.

  It would be impossible for me, if it were required, to give

a regular account of all that passed around me in the lapse
of the following two years, for they were spent in a perfect

chaos of business. The garden and workrooms were

swarming with labourers and workmen, smiths and carpenters

Igoing to and fro between the forge and the forty-foot

machinery, and ought not to forget that there is not one

Iscrew-bolt about the whole apl,aratus but what was fixed
under the immediate eye of my brother.  have seen him

lie stretched many an hour in a burning sun, across the

top beam whilst the iron work for the various motions was

being fixed.

  At one time no less than twenty-four men (twelve and

twelve relieving each other) kept polishing day and night ;
my brother, of course, never leaving them all the while,

taking his food without allowing himself time to sit down

to table.

The moonlight nights were generally taken advantage of for

experiments, and for the frequent journeys to town which he
74  Caroline Lucrctia Herschcl.  [1786-1787.

Iwas obliged to make to order and provide the tools and

materials which were continually wanting, may say by

wholesale.

   The discovery of the Georgian satellites caused many
breaks in the sweeps which were made at the end of 1786

and beginning of 1787, by leaving off abruptly against the
meridian passage of the planet, which occasioned much
work, both in shifting of the instrument and booking the
observations. Much confusion at first prevailed among

the loose papers on which the first observations were

Inoted, and some of them have perhaps been lost ; for

remember several configurations of the situation of the
satellites having been made by Sir William Watson and Mr.

*****Marsden, and only one could be found
    That the discovery of these satellites must have brought

Imany nocturnal visitors to Slough may easily be imagined,

and many times have listened with pain to the conversation

my brother held with his astronomical friends when quite

Iexhausted by answering their numerous questions. For

well knew that on such occasions, instead of renewing his

strength by going to rest, that there were too many who

Icould not go on without his direction, among whom often
Iwas included, for very seldom could get a paper out of his

hands time enough for finishing the copy against the

appointed day for its being taken to town. But considering

that no less than seven papers were delivered to the Royal

Society in 1786-1787, it may easily be judged that my
Ibrother's study had not been entirely deserted.
Ialways some kind of work in hand with which      had

                                              could

Iproceed without troubling him with questions ; such as the
temporary index which  began in June, 1787. Some

years after, the index to Flamsteed's observations, calculat

ing the beginning and ending of sweeps and their breadth,
Chap, ii.] Slough--Appointed Assistant Astronomer. ,75

for filling up the vacant places in the registers, and works of
that kind, filled up the intervals when nothing more neces

sary was in hand.

My brother Jacob was with us from April till October,

1787, when he returned to Hanover again. Alexander came

only for a short time to give his brother     the meeting,
                                               (She died in
Mrs. H. being too ill to be left long alone.

January of 1788.)

Professor Snaidecky often saw some objects through the

twenty-foot telescope, among others the Georgian satellites.
He had taken lodgings in Slough for the purpose of seeing

and hearing my brother whenever he could find him at

leisure ; he was a very silent man.

   My brother's bust was taken by Lockie, according to Sir

Wm. Watson's order. Professor Wilson and my brother

Jacob* were present.

   In August an additional man-servant was engaged, who

would be wanted at the handles of the motions of the forty-

foot, for which the mirror in the beginning of July was so

far finished as to be used for occasional observations on trial.

Such a person was also necessary for showing the

telescopes to the curious strangers, as by their numerous

visits my brother or myself had for some time past been

much incommoded. In consequence of an application

made through Sir J. Banks to the King, my brother

had in August a second £2,000 granted for completing

the forty-foot, and £200 yearly for the expense of re

pairs, such as ropes, painting, &c, &c, and the keep and

clothing of the men who attended at night. A salary of

Ififty pounds a year was also settled on me as an assistant to

my brother, and in October received twelve pounds ten,

being the first quarterly payment of my salary, and the first

* This is the last time that the name of Jacob Herschel appears.
76         Caroline Lucretia Herschel.    [1787-1788.

Imoney ever in all my lifetime thought myself to be at

liberty to spend to my own liking. A ^great uneasiness

Iwas by this means removed from my mind, for though had

generally (and especially during the last busy six years) been
almost the keeper of my brother's purse, with a charge

to provide for my personal wants, only annexing in my

accounts the memorandum  for Car. to the  sums so laid
                                           to seven or
out--when cast up, they  hardly amounted

eight pounds per year since the time we had left Bath.
Nothing but bankruptcy had all the while been running

through my silly head, when looking at the sums of my weekly
accounts and knowing they could be but trifling in compari
son with what had been and had yet to be paid in town, for

my brother had not been fortunate enough to meet with a

reasonable man for a caster who could also furnish the

Icrane, &c, and his bills came in greatly overcharged. But
more of this in another place.  will only add that from

this time the utmost activity prevailed to forward the com

pletion of the forty-foot. An additional optical workman

was engaged, and preparation made for casting the second

mirror. Journeys to town were made for moulding, and at
the end of January a fine cast mirror arrived safely at

Slough. Several seven-foot telescopes were finished and

sent off.

    The fine nights were not neglected, though observations

'were often interrupted by visitors. Messrs. Casini, Meehain,
Le Genre, and Carochet spent November 26th and 27th with
my brother, and saw many objects in the twenty-foot and

other instruments.

   The catalogue of the second thousand new nebulae
wanted but a few numbers in March to being complete.

The observations on the Georgian satellites furnished a

paper which was delivered to the Royal Society in May.
The 8th of that month being fixed on for my brother's
Chap, ii.] Slough--Marriage of Dr. Herschel.  77

Imarriage, it may easily be supposed that must have been
I Ifully employed (besides minding the heavens) to prepare

everything as well as could against the time was to give
up the place of a housekeeper, which was the 8th of May,

1788.

END OF RECOLLECTIONS.
                     CHAPTER III.

                LIFE AFTER HER BROTHER'S MARRIAGE.

   With the second volume of " Recollections" all

connected narrative and detailed relation of daily
events ceases, and for the ten years from 1788 to 1798
there is not even the journal, which, however, was
resumed in the latter year. All has been destroyed.
An event so important as her brother's marriage * is
only noticed as fixing the date when the " place of a
housekeeper " had to be resigned. Miss Herschel lived
from henceforth in lodgings, coming every day for her
work, and in all respects continuing the same labours
as her brother's assistant and secretary as before. But
it is not to be supposed that a nature so strong and
a heart so affectionate should accept the new state of
things without much and bitter suffering. To resign
the supreme place by her brother's side which she had
filled for sixteen years with such hearty devotion could

   * Dr. Herschel married Mary, only child of Mr. James Haldwin, a merchant
of the City of London, and widow of John Pitt, Esq., by whom she had one
son, who died in early youth. She was a lady of singular amiability and
gentleness of character. The jointure which she brought enabled Dr.
Herschel to pursue his scientific career without any anxiety about money
matters.
chap, iii.]  Her Brother's Marriage.  79

not be otherwise than painful in any case ; but how
much more so in this where equal devotion to the
same pursuit must have made identity of interest and
purpose as complete as it is rare. One who could
both feel and express herself so strongly was not
likely to fall into her new place without some outward

expression of what it cost her --tradition confirms
the assumption--and it is easy to understand how this

long significant silence is due to the light of later
wisdom and calmer judgment which counselled the
destruction of all record of what was likely to be

painful to survivors.
    Her later letters abundantly show that she had

learned to love the gentle sister-in-law whom she so
pathetically entreats to hold on with her in their
common old age, and the journals of her astro

nomical researches sufficiently prove that her zeal

in " minding the Heavens " knew no abatement. It

was at this period also that she made some of her
most important discoveries. Before the end of 1797
she had announced the discovery of eight comets, to

five of which the priority of her claim over other

Iobservers is unquestioned. A packet, in coarse paper,

bearing the superscription, " This is what call the
Bills and Receipts of ray Comets" contains some data
connected with the discovery of these objects, each
folded in a separate paper, and marked " First Comet,"
" Second Comet," &c, &c. Some of the correspond-
SO      Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                        [1788.

encc on the occasion of her first discovery has already
been quoted, and in a note she explains that many of the
letters from distinguished men which she received had
been given to collectors of autographs. The letter to
the Astronomer Royal, announcing the discovery of
her second comet, has been preserved, with his

answer.

        MISS HERSCHEL TO THE REV. DR. MASKELYNE.

   Dear Sir, --

       ILast night, December 21st, at 7h 45', discovered a
Icomet, a little more than one degree south --preceding ft

Lyrae. This morning, between five and six, saw it again,

Iwhen it appeared to have moved about a quarter of a degree
towards 8 of the same constellation.                             beg the favour of

you to take it under your protection.

  IMrs. Herschel and my brothers join with me in com

pliments to Mrs. Maskelyne and yourself, and have the

honour to remain,

                   Dear sir,

                  Your most obliged, humble servant,
                                             Carolina Herschel.

Slough, Dec. 22, 1788.

P.S. -- The comet precedes /3 Lyrse 7' 5" in time, and is

in the  parallel of the small star                        being            See fifth
        third star, of my catalogue.
class,I                                                  --Wm,   double).
                                                      (/J
                                                                 H.

        THE REV. DR. MASKELYNE TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Dear Miss Caroline, --                                   Greenwich, December 2", 1788.

        thank you for your favour of the 22nd instant, con
Chap, iii.]   Second Comet discovered.               81

taining an account of your discovery of a second comet

Ion the 21st, and recommending it to nay attention.
       received it only on the 24th, at ten in the morning,

owing to the slowness of our penny post.

  I Idelayed acknowledging it till could inform you at the
Isame time had seen it. The frost, unfortunately for us

astronomers, broke up the very same morning that your

Iletter arrived, in consequence of which the weather has been

so bad that could not get a sight of your comet till last

night, the 26th, when, at 6h 34', it followed a Lyra in the
A. R., 3' 7" of time, and was 2° 30' S. of it. This only by

the divisions of the equatorial and meridian circles, but true

Ito a minute or two of declination and five seconds of time.
   compared it more accurately with a small telescopic star

it

            it,
                   is
                    it
                          is
                           it
                                 is

                                                           a
                                                                             a

                                                                 is
                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                    if it
                                                                                    it
nearer which, when settled hereafter, will determine its

place within 30" of a degree. Hence its A. R. was about

18" 33' 55", and distance from the North Pole 53° 59'. By

your observation of December 22nd, 5' 31' in the morning,
its A. R. was 18h 35' 12", and P. D. 56° 56'. Hence has

moved retrograde in A. R. about the rate of 17' of time per

day, and 80' per day northward in declination, which agrees
nearly with your observation of its approach towards Lyre.
Its motion fortunately favourable for our keeping sight of

for some time, which may be very useful, especially

should be moving from us, which there an equal chance

for, as the contrary. It appeared to me very faint, and

rather small, but the air was hazy. By its faintness and

slow motion,        probably at considerable distance from

the earth. Time will explain these things. Let us hope

the best, and that  approaching the earth^to please and

instruct us, and not to destroy us, for true astronomers

have no fears of that kind. Witness Sir Harry Englefield's

valuable tables of the apparent places of the Comet of 1661,
expected to return at this time, with delineation of its
82  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                    [1788.

orbit, who, in page 7, speaks of the possibility of seeing

a curious and beautiful transit of it over the sun's disk,

should the earth and comet be in the line of the nodes at

Ithe same time, without horror at the thought of our being
involved in its immense tail.        would not affirm that there

may not exist some astronomers so enthusiastic that they

would not dislike to be whisked away from this low terres
trial spot into the higher regions of the heavens by the tail

Iof a comet, and exchange our narrow uniform orbit for one

vastly more extended and varied. But hope you, dear
Miss Caroline, for the benefit of terrestrial astronomy, will
not think of taking such a flight, at least till your friends are

ready to accompany you. Mrs. Maskelyne joins me in best

Ifcompliments to yourself and Dr. and Mrs. Herschel.

your observation was precise as to the difference of A.R. of
the comet and /3 Lyrae, it may be of use for determining the

Iorbit, especially if the comet should be going off from us.

  have not yet examined whether it can be the French

comet discovered by M. Messier, on the 26th of last month,

which was going from the earth. Its apparent motion must

Ihave turned at right angles to its former one, which is pos
sible, but not very probable.        could not see your comet

with the night glass, nor would its faintness allow of illu

Iminating the wires.

                      remain, dear Miss Caroline,

    Your obedient and obliged humble servant,
                                                  N. Maskelyne.

    DR. HERSCHEL TO SIR H. ENGLEFIELD.

    Sir, --                  of the  comet        December 22, 1788.
          Your intelligence
                                            I received, but on

account of the long time elapsed since the 2nd and 3rd of

this month we have not been able to recover the fugitive.
Chap, iii.]  Second Comet discovered.                           83

Last night, however, my sister discovered a comet near
/3 Lyrae, which you will find no difficulty to follow as its

motion is very slow, and the comet a pretty visible object.
We saw it again this morning, and it seems to go towards

h Lyrae, you will see it pass by /3 Lyrae. It is a much larger

object than the nebula near /3 Lyrae, discovered by Mr.
Darquier, of Toulouse (Connoissance dee Temps, 75).

             SIR H. ENGLEFIELD TO DR. HERSOHEL.

IDear Sir, --        obliged           Petersham, December 25, 1788.
            am much
                              to you for your account of the

comet, and beg you to make my compliments to Miss

Herschel on her discovery. She will soon be the great

comet finder, and bear away the prize from Messier and

Mechain.                                                have

  IThe weather yesternight was bad, and to-night

looked for it, in the moments of fine weather, with a good

I Inight-glass, but am not sure that saw it, though thought
I perceived it about half-way between /3 and b Lyrae. The
Iglass used showed D'Arquier's nebula, though but faintly.
IBefore could get any other telescope ready, the weather
Ifclouded.
             you have seen it again, pray be so good as to

Igive me its place when you saw it last, and with what power
and light it may be seen.     was going to write to Messier

                              it,

                                 I

                                             it
about his comet, but have deferred as would not mention

yours without your leave, and could not find in my heart

to write without doing it.

Believe me, dear Sir,

             With all the wishes of the season,

                     Your much obliged and faithful

                                             H. C. Englefield.

                                                 G  'J
84  Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.                        [1788-1790.

    DR. HERSCHEL TO SIR J. BANKS.
    ISir, --
    The last time was in town, you expressed a wish to

see my observations on the comet which my sister, Caroline

Herschel, discovered in the evening of the 21st of last

December, not far from /3 Lyra.
   As she immediately acquainted the Reverend Dr. Mas-

kelyne and several other gentlemen with her discovery, the

comet was observed by many of them. The Astronomer

IRoyal in particular having, find, obtained a very good set

Iof valuable observations on its path, it will be sufficient if

communicate only those particulars which relate to its first

appearance, and a few other circumstances that may perhaps

Ideserve to be noticed.               viewed the comet
   Dec 21st, 1788. --About 8 o'clock

which my sister had a little while before pointed out

to me with her small Newtonian sweeper. In my instru

ment, which was a ten-foot reflector, it had the appearance

of a considerably bright nebula, of an irregular round form,

very gradually brighter in the middle, and about five or six

minutes in diameter. The situation was low, and not very

proper for instruments with high powers.

   Dec 22nd. --About half-after 5 o'clock in the morn

Iing viewed it again, and perceived that it had moved
Iapparently in a direction towards 8 Lyra?, or thereabout.

had been engaged all night with the twenty-foot instrument,

so that there had been no leisure to prepare my apparatus for

taking the place of the comet ; but in the evening of the

Isame day took its situation three times
  IIn every observation found the small star which accom

panies /3 Lyrae exactly in the parallel of the comet.

  IThese transits were taken with a ten-foot reflector, and

the difference in right ascension, should suppose, may be

depended upon to within a second of time. The determi
Chai\ III.]  The Third Comet seen.                           85

nation also of the parallel can hardly err so much as 15

Iseconds of a degree.                      viewed the comet
   This, and several evenings afterwards,

again with such powers as its diluted light would permit,

Ibut could not perceive any sort of nucleus which, had it

been a single second in diameter, think, could not well

have escaped me. This circumstance seems to be of some

consequence to those who turn their thoughts on the inves

Itigation of the nature of comets, especially as have also

formerly made the same remark on one of the comets dis

covered by Mr. Mechain in 1787, a former one of my sister's
in 1786, and one of Mr. Pigott's in 1783, in neither of

Iwhich any denned, solid nucleus, could be perceived.
                                 have the honour to remain,
                                             Sir, &c,

Slough, nbar Windsor,        Wm. Herschel.

             March 3, 1789.

   The third comet was discovered on the 7th January,
1790 ; the fourth on the 17th April of the same year,

during her brother's absence from home. It was

announced to Sir Joseph Banks in the following
letter : --

ISin,--                                                  April 19th, 1790.
          am very unwilling  to trouble you with incomplete

observations, and for that reason did not acquaint you
Iyesterday with the discovery of a comet.
                                           wrote an

account of it to Dr. Maskelyne and Mr. Aubert, in hopes

Ithat either of those gentlemen, or my brother, whom

expect every day to return, would have furnished me with

the means of pointing it out in a proper manner.             could

  IBut as perhaps several days might pass before
86              Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                 [1790.

Ihave any answer to my letters, or my brother return,

would not wish to be thought neglectful, and therefore if

you think, sir, the following description is sufficient, and

that more of my brother's astronomical friends should be

                is                should be very happy you

                    a

                         it iIt,
made acquainted with                                        I if
                                                                II
would be so kind as to do for the sake of astronomy.

The comet           little more than 3£° following a Andro-

medte, and about 1\° above the parallel of that star.       saw

    first on April 17th, 16'1 24' sidereal time, and the first
it

   I
view could have of last night was 16h 5'. As far as
                    it
                        it
am able to judge, has decreased in P. D. nearly 1°, and

increased in A. R. something above 1'.

These are only estimations from the field of view, and

only mention to show that its motion not so very rapid.
                it                I is

                                              am, &c,

                                                            C. H.

                MISS HERSCHEL TO ALEX. AUBERT, ESQ.

Dear Sir, --                            Slough, April 18, 1790.

    is I a I    am almost ashamed to write to you, because
             ;      I
                              I

                                                     a

                                                            is
                                                                is

                                             Ia I
                                                     I
never think of doing so but when am in distress.            found

last night, at 16h 24' sidereal time, comet, and do not

know what to do with it, for my new sweeper                 not half

finished and besides, broke the handle of the perpendi

cular motion in my brother's absence (who     on little

tom- into Yorkshire). He has furnished me to that instru

ment Rumboides, but the wires are too thin, and have

no contrivance for illuminating them. All my hopes were

that should not find anything which would make me feel

the want of these things in his absence but, as happens,
                    a

                          if

                                       a

                                                         ;

                                                      is

                                         I it
here          an object in place where there  no nebula, or

anything which could look like comet, and would be
much obliged to you, sir, you would look at the place
Chap, hi.] Letters about the Third Comet.             S7

where the annexed eye-draft will direct you to. My brother
has swept that part of the heavens, and has many nebulae

Ithere, but none which must expect to see with my instru
I J.ment. will not write to Sir Banks or Dr. Maskelyne, or

anybody, till you, sir, have seen it ; but if you could, without

much trouble, give my best respects and that part of this
letter which points out the place of the comet to Mr.

IWollaston, you would make me very happy.

                                      am, dear sir, &c, &c,
                                                                      C. H.

SIR JOSEPH BANKS TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Madam, --              Soho Square, April 20, 1790.

I return you many thanks for the communication

Iyou were so good as to make to me this day of your dis
covery of a comet.     shall take care to make our astrono

mical friends acquainted with the obligations they are under

Ito your diligence.
      am always happy to hear from you, but never more so

than when you give me an opportunity of expressing my

obligations to you for advancing the science you cultivate

with so much success.

                       Dear Madam,

                       Your faithful servant,

                                           J. Banks.

ALEX. AUBERT, ESQ. TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                                           London, the 21st April, Wednesday, 1790.

 IDear Miss Herschel, --
             am much obliged to you for your kind letter. The

Inight before last was cloudy. Last night, or rather this

morning, about half-past two, got up to look for the
88        Caroline Lucre tia Herschcl.               [1790.

Iphenomenon ; it was somewhat hazy.  observed with a

common night-glass of Dollond's a faint something in a line
between a and n Andromedse, much like a faint star ; it had

I Ino coma nor fuzzy appearance. By looking at Flamsteed's

Atlas find no small star there. was preparing to attack
it with a good magnifying power, and to get its place with
Imy Smeaton's equatorial micrometer, but when was ready
Ia haze came on, and soon after too much daylight, so can
IIfsay no more to it as yet.
                              saw what you judged a comet,

Iit must have moved but little since you saw it ; it was as
large as a star of 7th magnitude, but rather faint.  sent

this morning to Dr. Maskelyne : he says he could see

nothing with a good night glass, but will try again the next

fair morning, and after trying he will answer you ; in the
Imeanwhile he begs his best compliments.
                                          will also try
Iagain. Pray let me know if you think it was the comet
Isaw.
          have mentioned it to no one but to Mr. Wollaston,

who thanks you sincerely, but did not find himself well

enough to observe ; he lives in Charter House Square ;

direct upon occasion there to the Rev. Francis Wollaston.

IYou cannot, my dear Miss Herschel, judge of the
pleasure  feel when your reputation and fame increase ;

everyone must admire your and your brother's knowledge,

industry, and behaviour. God grant you many years health
Iand happiness.
                 will soon pay you a visit, as soon as your
If Ibrother returns.
                        have any instrument you wish to use,

it is at your service.

                        Believe me, &c, Sec,

                              Alexander Aubert.
Chap, iii.]  Letters from Astronomers.                            89

REV. DR. MASKELYNE TO MISS HERSCHEL

Dear Miss Herschel, --                    Gbbenwich, April 22, 1790.
        ··*
                                               *·

* » ** *
I IIf* *
             misunderstand anything shall be obliged

to you for an explanation. The weather has not permitted

Ime to see anything of the comet yet, but it seems now

mending, and hope to be able to make something of it to

morrow morning. Your second communication, at the same

time that it gives me fresh spirits as to the certainty of its

Ibeing a comet, will certainly assist me in more readily
finding it.  feared that your using your new telescope

might make that a bright comet to you which might prove

but a very faint one, if at all visible, in a common night-

glass, which is what we first use to discover a comet with.

I I IAs soon as shall have seen it will send you a line.

sent intelligence of your discovery to M. Mechain, at Paris,

last Tuesday, and will send to him your farther communica

tion next Friday. Mr. Maskelyne joins me in best compli

ments to yourself and Mrs. Herschel, and Dr. Herschel on

his return. Dr. Shepherd sent advice of it from me last Tues
day to the Master of Trinity, at Cambridge, who perhaps

may convey the agreeable intelligence to your brother.

    I remain, dear Miss Herschel,

My worthy sister in astronomy,

             Your faithful  and  obliged  humble     servant,
                                                 N.
                                                     Maskf.lyne.

         J. DE LA LANDE TO CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

                                         Rue College Royal, le 12 Juillet, 1790.

Ma chkre et s'avante Commeke, --
      J'ai recu avec la plus delicieyise satisfaction la premiere
90         Caroline Lucretia Herse he /.  [1790.

lettre dont vous m'avez honoré ; je ne pouvois attribuer votre

silence à une timidité que vôtre reputation condamne, mais

je l'aurais attribué à mon peu de mérite si vous aviez

continué de me refuser une réponse. Vous ecrivez si bien

que vous ne pouvez pas avoir à cet égard une excuse

légitime.

Vous verrez bientôt M. Ungeschick qui a baptisé vôtre

filleule Caroline, dites lui qu'elle se porte beaucoup mieux

ainsi que le petite Isaac (je l'ai ainsi nommé en mémoire

d'Isaac Newton), pour sa soeur je ne pouvois lui donner un

nom plus illustre que le vôtre ; c'est ce que j'ai fait

remarquer en annonçant sa naissance dans nôtre Moniteur

ou Gazette Nationale du 31 janvier, je ne pouvois vous

donner un compère d'un plus grand mérite que M.
IlDelambre.
             fait actuellement des tables des Satellites de

Jupiter qui surpassent de beaucoup celles de M. Wargentin.

Vôtre commère ma nièce calcule des tables pour trouver

l'heure en mer par la hauteur du soleil. Mde. du Piery

calcule des observations d'éclipses. Pour moi, je suis

occupé des étoiles, j'en ai déjà 6,000 ; votre compère Le-

Français * y met beaucoup de soin. Nous tâchons tous de
seconder vos heureux travaux et ceux de vôtre illustre frère ;

nous vous prions tous de recevoir vous même et de lui

présenter nos respects.

Remerciez le bien de la complaisance qu'il a eu de

m'en voyer la rotation de l'anneau dont j'etois bien curieux.

Je suis autant d'attachement que de respect, Savante Miss,

                         Votre très humble et très
                                            obeissant serviteur,

                                               De la Lande.

   Plusieurs de mes ctoiles ont servi à comparer vôtre

   * M. De la Lande' s name was Jerome Le Français dit de la Lande; it is to
himself, therefore, that he here refers. The letter is addressed "Mile. Carolino
Herschel, Astronome Célèbre, Slough."
chap, iii.]  Letters.                           91

comete qui a disparu le 80 juin, mais que M. Messier et
M. Mechain ont siuvis sans interruption, jusques dans le

crepuscule.

   Je vous prie de demander les bontes de votre digne frere

pour M. Ungeschick, qui est un astronome de merite, et qui

a bien du zele, mais en vous voyant le zele augmentera.

             MISS HERSCHEL TO M. DE LA LANDE.

Dear Sir,--            Slough, Sept. 12t/i, 1790.

          Our good friend, General Komavzewski, will persuade

Ime to believe that am capable of giving you pleasure by
Iwriting a few lines ; but am under an apprehension that

he is overrating my abilities. You, my dear sir, certainly

overrated them when you thought me deserving of express

ing your esteem for me in so public a manner as the General

Iand Mr. Ungeshick have informed me of.
       do not only owe you my sincerest thanks for your good

opinion of me, but my utmost endeavours shall be to make

myself worthy of it if possible. My good brother has not

been omissive in furnishing me with the means of becoming
so in 6ome respects. An excellent Newtonian sweeper, of

five-feet focal length, is nearly completed, which, being
mounted at the top of the house, will always be in readi

ness for observing whenever my attendance on the forty or

Itwenty-foot telescopes is not required.
      hope the little god-daughter is in good health, and wish

she may grow and give happiness and pleasure to her parents

Iand uncle.
       beg to present many respectful compliments to the

ingenious ladies you mentioned in your letter.

Mrs. Herschel desires to be remembered to you, sir. "We

do not give up the hopes of seeing you again at Slough,
92           Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.  [1791-1795.

and are wishing it may not be long before you visit

England again.     I remain, dear sir,
                          With greatest esteem, &c, &c,
                                                    C. Herschel.

   Another foreign correspondent was inspired to soar
above the ordinary level of scientific communications,
and addressed Miss Herschel in a strain of high-flown

adulation, of which the following is a translation :--

                                 Gottingen, May 10, [about 1793.]

Permit me, most revered lady, to biing to your remem

brance a man who has held you in the highest esteem ever

since he had the good fortune to enter the Temple of

Urania, at Slough, and to pay his respects to its priestess.

I still recall the happy hours passed in England in earlier

Idays of sweet remembrance, and above all, those which
was privileged to spend near you in a society as genial as it

was intellectual.

    Give me leave, noble and worthy priestess of the new

heavens, to lay at your feet my small offering on eclipses of

the sun, and at the same time to express my gratitude and
deepest reverence. The bearer is a young Mr. Johnston,

who has been studying here, and is now returning to
England. He is a young man of excellent character, and

Ipossessed of unusual capacity and attainments.
   May venture to ask, most honoured Miss, that when

you or your brother make any discovery, you will grant

me early notice of  as you once had the kindness toit,
                             is
promise to do. You can hardly fail to make them at

Slough, where every day          rich in discovery, especially
when one of your own subjects --the comets --comes to offer

its homage.
Chap, in.]  Two more Comets discovered.                              93

  IHow happy should esteem myself if there were any
Iservice could render you here, most admirable lady astro

Inomer, that might be permitted to prove how entirely my

heart is devoted to you.                             Prof. Seyffer.

The fifth comet was discovered December 15th,

1791, and a simple record of the fact is all that the

p"aMckyetbrdoetvhoetredwrotote  it contains,  with   the information,
                                              of it
                                 an account          to Sir J. Banks,

Dr. Maskelyne, and to several astronomical corre

spondents." The discovery of the sixth is treated

Iwith equal brevity. " Oct. 7, at 8h. mean time.

discovered a comet, my brother settled its place on

the 8th, and I wrote to Sir J. Banks, Dr. Maskelyne,

and to Mr. Planta. The letter to Mr. Planta is printed

in the Philosophical Transactions."

None of the correspondence in connection with the

seventh has been preserved, excepting her oAvn letter

announcing its discovery to Sir J. Banks.

            MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS.

Sir --                                        Slough, Nov. 8, 1795.
*****tions of it from his journal.
Last night, in sweeping over a part of the heavens
Iwith my five-foot reflector,
                                met with a telescopic comet.
ITo point out its situation transcribe my brother's observa

It will probably pass between the head of the Swan and
*****1)4
               Caroline Lticretia Herscficl.  [1795-1797.

the constellation of the Lyre, in its descent towards the
sun. The direction of its motion is retrograde.*

           ** ***

   As the appearance of one of these objects is almost be

Icome a novelty, flatter myself that this intelligence will

not be uninteresting to astronomers, and therefore hope,

sir, you will, with your usual kindness, recommend it to

their notice.  I have the honour to be,

                         With great respect, dec, &c,
                                        Caroline Herschel.

   Two years later the eighth and last        comet was
discovered, on the 6th of August, 1797.
                                              It was the
occasion of the following letter : --

        MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR JOSErH BANKS.

Sir,--         August, 17, 1797.

This is not a letter from an astronomer to the Presi

dent of the Royal Society announcing a comet, but only a
few lines from Caroline Herschel to a friend of her brother's,

by way of apology for not sending intelligence of that kind

immediately where they are due.

  I have so little faith in the expedition of messengers of all

Idescriptions that undertook to be my own, with an inten

tion of stopping in town and write and deliver a letter

    * This comet, since known as Encke's, in consequence of that great astro
nomer having determined its periodicity in 1819 and predicted its triennial
return, was discovered, independently, four several times before its identity
was recognized, Miss Herschel's observation of it in 1795 being the second in
order of time. Additional interest has since attached to it, in consequence of

its gradually diminishing period and the views hence suggested on the

economy of tho solar system.
Chap, iii.] Ceases to reside with her Brother.  95

Imyself, but unfortunately undertook the task with only the

preparation of one hour's sleep, and having in the course of
five years never rode above two miles at a time, the twenty to
London, and the idea of six or seven more to Greenwich in
reserve, totally unfitted me for any action. Dr. Maskelyne
was so kind as to take some pains to persuade me to go this

Imorning to pay my respects to Sir Joseph, but thought

a woman who knows so little of the world ought not to aim

at such an honour, but go home, where she ought to be,
as soon as possible.

   The letter which you sent, sir, to my brother, was the only
one received at Slough in my absence; it arrived towards
noon on the 16th, and was brought by a porter from an inn.

  I Ihope you will excuse the trouble give by sending this,
Ithough know it is entirely useless, because Dr. Maskelyne
Ihad probably my memorandum which took to Greenwich
Iwith him when he called in Soho Square, and therefore can

say nothing but what you, sir, are acquainted with already ;

I Ibut shall be a little more comfortable when can say to
Imy brother have written to Sir J. Banks concerning the

comet.

         IWith the utmost respect,
                              remain, sir,

                                Your most obedient servant,
                                                          C. Herschel.

   We are now reduced to the short diary-like entries
in a small book entitled " Extracts from a Day-Booh
kept during the years 1797 and 1821," which begins :

I"1797, in October went to lodge and board with

one of my brother's workmen (Sprat), whose wife was

to attend on me. My telescopes on the roof, to which
96      Caroline Lucrclia Herschel.           [1797-1798.

I was to have occasional access, as also to the

room with the sweeping and observing apparatus,

Iremained in its former order, where most days spent

some hours in preparing work to go on with at my

lodging." A chance memorandum shows how the
leisure time was employed ; thus -- " At the ending of

1787, or beginning of 1788, began to make use of
some of the proof-sheets of Wollaston's Catalogue along
with Flamsteed's ; " and again, " December 24th, 1 797,
received notice for printing the Index, which was not
at all adapted for that purpose ; but March 8th, 1798,

the copy was completed, and taken to the Royal
Society, and in the course of the summer the print

was corrected." The following letter to the Astrono

mer Royal bears on this subject : --

        MISS HERSCHEL TO REV. DR. MASKELYNE.

Dear Sir, --  Slough, Sept. 1798.

        I have for a long while past felt a desire of express

ing my thanks to you for having interested yourself so kindly

for the little production of my industry by being the pro

Imoter of the printing of the Index to Flamsteed's Observa
tions.  thought the pains it had cost me were, and would

be, sufficiently rewarded in the use it had already been, and

might be in future, to my brother. But your having thought

I Iit worthy of the press has flattered my vanity not a little.

You see, sir, do own myself to be vain, because would

not wish to be singular ; and was there ever a woman with

out vanity ? or a man either ? only with this difference, that

among gentlemen the commodity is generally styled ambition.
Chap. III.]           Astronomical..  97

I wish it were possible to offer something which could be

of use to our Royal Astronomer than merely thanks. Per

Ihaps the enclosed catalogue may be of some little service on
some occasion or other.  was obliged to bring it into that

form by way of scrutinizing the real number of omitted

stars, and find it now very useful when my brother, in
sweeping, &c, observes stars which are not contained in

Wollaston's Catalogue, to know immediately by this order

of R. A. if they are in any of Flamsteed's omitted stars, and
if they are, what number they bear in the catalogue of

omitted stars, which number we find in the first column.

The rest of the columns will want no explanation, except

the last, which would not be complete, or1 even intelligible,

without the assistance of the catalogue of omitted stars, and

the notes to that catalogue, for they are short memorandums
collected from the descriptions in the catalogue, and from

the notes to some of the stars.

   As our Index contains all the corrections and information

Iwhich possibly could collect, those corrections and memo
Irandums of which had the pleasure, about eighteen months

Iago, to write a copy for Dr. Maskelyne, will consequently

be laid aside, else ought to take notice that there are one

or two errors and several omissions which should have been

corrected in that copy, but with which it will now be needless

to trouble you, sir.

What has laid me under particular obligation to you, my

dear sir, was your timely information, the August before

last, of your having proposed the printing of the Index, to
the P. R. S. The papers were then in so incomplete a

state, that it needed each moment which could possibly

be spared from other business to deliver them with some

Iconfidence of their being pretty correct.
   Many times do think with pleasure and comfort on the

friendly invitations Mrs. Maskelyne and yourself have given
                                                                                     ii
,98       Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.               [179S.

Ime to spend a few days at Greenwich.  hope yet to have

Ithat pleasure next spring or summer. This last has passed

away, and never thought myself well or in spirits enough
Ifto venture from home.
                            the heavens had befriended me,
Iand afforded us a comet, might, under its convoy, perhaps
Ihave ventured at an emigration. However, cannot help
Ithinking that shall meet with some little reward for the

denial it has been to me not coming this summer in seeing

the improvements Miss Maskelyne has made (more per

Iceptibly) in those accomplishments she seemed to be in so

fair a way of attaining when was there last.

IWith my best respects and compliments to Mrs. M.,
             remain, with the greatest esteem,

          Your most obliged and humble servant,
                                                C. Herschel.

          DIARY.

May 29th and 30th. --Was mostly spent at the Observatory,
Professor Vince * being there.
**I ***IJuly 30th.--My brother went with his family to Bath and
Dawlish.  went daily to the Observatory and work-rooms

to work, and returned home to my meals, and at night,

except in fine weather, spent some hours on the roof, and

was fetched home by Sprat.

   September 11th. --Dined at my brother's. Professor Pictet
and Dr. Ingenhouse, &c, were there. Cloudy night.

   October 7th. --Finished the MS. Catalogue of omitted
stars for Dr. Maskelyne.

            *»**»

   December 81st. --Mem. Uncommonly harassed in conse
quence of the loss of time necessary for going backward and

       * The Rcv. S. Vince, a mathematician and natural philosopher]
Chap, in.]  Extracts from Day-book.

forward, and not having immediate access to each book or
paper at the moment when wanted.

   January 4th. -- Spent the evening at my brother's. Sir
Wm. Watson * and Mr. Wilson t were there.

   February 11th. --My brother went to Bath to make some
stay there, having taken a house on Sion Hill.

   February 26th. -- Mrs. Herschel, Miss Cobet, and the

servants left Slough for Bath. Russell, the horse-keeper,

Iand his wife, were, along with me, left in charge of the

house, from which seldom was absent at any other time

but to go to dinner at my lodging every day at one o'clock.

   March 29th. --The Prince of Orange stepped in to ask

some questions about planets, &c.\
   Lord Kirkwall and a gentleman came to see the instruments.

   April 1st. --My brother arrived at Slough, and on the
11th he took a paper to the R. S., which he brought with
him for me to copy in the clear. The fine nights were

spent with sweeping.

  * Sir William Watson, M.D., Knight, F.R.S. from 1770 to 1800, when ho

resigned. He was one of the first members of the Astronomical Society at its

fonndation in 1821 under the Presidency of William Herschel. His father,

also M.D. and Knight, was the eminent botanist and naturalist. Ho lived

much at Dawlish, where the Herschel family frequently went to stay with

him.

   + Alexander Wilson, M.D., professor of practical astronomy in the Uni

versity of Glasgow, and first propounder of that theory as to the cause and

nature of the spots on the sun, which was afterwards fully corroborated and

worked out by Sir W. Herschel.
Ja
      The Prince's questions  w"ersetepstominet"imweisth oaf  a very   remarkable kind. On
  previous occasion when he                                   view to  having them answered,

and was not so fortunate as to find anyono at home, he left the following
memorandum: "The Prince of Orange has been at Slough to call at Mr'.

Herschel's and to ask him, or if he was not at home to Miss Herschel, if it is

true that Mr. Herschel has discovered a new star, whose light was not as that

of the common stars, but with swallow tails, as stars in oinbroidery. He has

seen this reported in the newspapers, and wishes to know if there is any

foundation to that report. -- Slough, the 8th of August, 1798. -- W. Prince of

                                                                       H2
100        Caroline Lucretia Herschel.               [1799.

May l4th. --Was interrupted in works on account of the

Montem.

   [Montem]. --Was visited by Mrs. Owen, the Elds, Linds,*
&c, at my lodgings, or wherever they could find me.

   June.-- Began re-calculating all the sweeps as a constant

work for leisure time.  #           **
             *»
                                  I drank tea with him
June 8th. --My brother returned.

and Mrs. H., and at seven went home to my lodgings.

              · ** · *

July 15th. --Agreed for apartments at Newby's, the tailor,

Iin Slough (Mr. S. and Mrs. B. speaking well of them as

sober, industrious people), am to enter at Michaelmas.
             **·« *

  IAugust 19th. -- went to Greenwich to meet some com

Ipany at Dr. Maskelyne's, and after having spent a week at

the R. Observatory, went with Dr., Mrs., and Miss M. to

Ipay a visit to Sir George Schuckburgh, at Buxted Place,

where left the MS. on the 30th, and arrived at Slough

the 31st.

  It was so very rarely that Miss Herschel ever slept

from home, that this visit Avas a memorable event in

her experience. A small sheet, written by Miss Mas-

kelyne, headed "Journal from the 19 th to the 30th

of August, 1 799," is preserved, with the superscription :

I" By Miss Maskelyne's memorandum only found it

possible to" have any recollection of the occurrences

Iduring the eleven days had intended to spend at

Greenwich for the purpose of copying the memoran-

  * James LinJ, M.D., was a Scotchman, who devoted a considerable amount

of his time to astronomical observations.
Chap, iii.]  Extracts from Day-book.                       101

dums from my brother's second volume of Flamsteed's
Observations into Dr. Maskelyne's volume. But the
succession of amusements, &c., &c, left me no alter
native between contenting myself with one or two

Ihours' sleep per night during the six days was at

Greenwich, or to go home without having fulfilled my

purpose."
    The journal was enclosed in a letter from Mrs.

Maskelyne, which bears pleasant testimony to the
agreeable impression which her visitor must have
made on the ladies, as well as the astronomer.

Dear Miss Herschel,  Buxted Place, August 30, 1799.

We thank you for your polite message, are sorry you

left Buxted at eight o'clock ; hoped you would have taken

two dishes of coffee, and not gone till half-past eight, for

we were up at seven, to be ready to accompany you to

Uckfield.

   Margaret has sent the enclosed, and will be glad to hear

if it is what you meant ; she was writing it when you

stopped at the door, but did not venture to open it for fear

of disturbing us. Present our compliments to Dr. and Mrs.
Herschel. Pray let me know what sort of a journey you

Ihave -had to your dear sweeper, and accept our love.
                                  am, dear Miss Herschel,

                     Your humble servant,

                     S.'TMaskelyne.

"*"* The following letter has reference to this visit, and
 is inserted here, although belonging to a somewhat

 later date :--
102  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1799-1800.

     MISS HERSCHEL TO THE REV. DR. MASKELYNE.

                                                                                         January, 1800.

   Dear Sir,

       If it was not highly necessary to make you acquainted

Iwith the safe arrival of your valuable present at Slough,
Imight perhaps be a long while before should think my

self sufficiently collected to express the grateful feelings the

sight of it occasioned me. My being pleased at having two

such useful and convenient instruments has but very little

connection with my present ideas ; and if they had come

to me from any other hands but those of the Astronomer

IRoyal, should use them as occasion required, and think
Imyself much obliged to the giver. But as it is, cannot
Ihelp wishing were capable of doing something to make my

self deserving of all these kind attentions.

  I Ifeel gratified in particular when think of the stipula
Ition was making when you were taking measure of the

distance [apart] of my eyes : viz., that if you in future

should change in opinion, and not think me worthy of the

present, not to bestow it on me.

Mrs. Maskelyne's good-natured looks, and all she said at

Ithe time, come now again to my remembrance, and seeing

not only the binocular (which had but a conditional expec

tation of receiving), but also the night-glass, makes me hope
Ithat during the time
                         had the honour of being in the
Icompany of such esteemed friends, have suffered no loss

I Iin their former good opinion of me, which was a circum

stance often feared might have happened ; for have too

little knowledge of the rules of society to trust much to my

acquitting myself so as to give hope of having made any

favourable impressions.

You see, dear sir, that you have done me more good than

you were perhaps aware of : you have not only enabled me
Chap. III.]         Letters.                     103

to peep at the heavens, but have put me into good humour

with myself.
   With my respectful compliments to Mrs. and Miss

IMaskelyne,
               remain, with many thanks, Dear sir,
                  Your much obliged and humble servant,
                                                          C. Herschel.

   The following is from a friend who took the deepest

interest in the career of both brother and sister : --

             ED. PIGOTT, ESQ. TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                                                         Bath, St. James's Square,

                                                                                 April 30, 1799.

  IMadam,

        It is with much satisfaction that received through

the hands of Dr. Herschel, the valuable publication you

Iare so kind as to  send me, and    wthheich"  indeed is the more
              have  the volumes of             Historia Coelestis,"
welcome as

and shall most probably have occasion to use them. Were

Flamsteed alive, how cordially would he thank you for thus

rendering the labours of his life so much more useful and

acceptable to posterity, for he surely little thought that his

great work required to be elucidated by an additional folio

volume of explanations, errata, and indexes, the advantages

of which, by then- excellence and accuracy, must every day

be more and more acknowledged, and future astronomers, as

well as those of the present times will doubtless often be

Iconscious of the merit and obligation you are entitled to.
                    With many thanks, remain,

                                    Dear madam,

                                            Your most obedient
                                                     Edwd. Pigott.

IDr. and Mrs. Herschel, whom have occasionally the
104             Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                        [1799-1800.

Ipleasure of seeing, though by no means so often as could

.wish, are well, and desired to be mentioned to you.

August 31st. --At six in the evening both my brothers-

arrived from Bath. Alexander gave me a call.

   September 8th. --Professor Vince, his lady, and Alexander-

came to see me.
   October 18th. --My brother returned from Bath, but with

a violent cough and cold, and was obliged to go to Newbury

for change of air and meet Mrs. H., who was there on a visit.

  INovember 19th. -- The bailiffs took possession of my land

lord's goods, and found my property was not safe in my

new habitation.

*****December 31st.--The king had been at the Observatory.
*****February 1st. --My brother went to Bath.
                                                                            antl
   Mem. --Miss Baldwin [a niece of Mrs. Herschel's]

*****little John* frequently call on me.
  IApril 28th. --My brother went to town for a fortnight.

was at the Observatory after he was gone, from ten till two,

to select work for me to do at home.

   April 29th. -- From ten till three at the Observatory to

*****make order in the books and MSS.
   May 1st. --Dined with Dr. Lind. Fetched my nephew
from Mrs. Clark and brought him to his boarding-dame,
Mrs. Howard, at Eton. Worked every day some hours at

the Observatory.
   * The only   child of Dr. Herschel. He  afterwards became  Sir  "Jomhny  Herschel.
Miss Herschel   was very proud as well as  fond of him. He    is            nephew."

Dr. Herschel is usually called "my brother," in distinction from all the rest

of the family.
  IMay 2&th. -- went to take leave of my nephew, who

*****entered at Dr. Gretton's School.
Chap, iii.]  Extracts from Diary.     105-

June 23rd. -- Paid my rent, and gave notice of quitting my

apartments at Michaelmas.

  IJune 25th. --Began to pack up what must take to Bath
Iwith me, for there am to go !

  IJune 29th. -- dined with Mrs. H. and went with her to

Ithe Terrace, where took leave of my friends at the Lodge.

Everything was arranged for my books and furniture to-

remain at my lodging, to which my brother was to keep the

Ikeys. But on receiving information they would be seized

along with my landlord's goods by bailiffs, prepared the

same night for their removal, and all was safely lodged in a

Igarret at Mrs. H.'s by July 2 at night.

   July 3rd. -- left Slough by the nine o'clock Newbury

coach, and remained with the Miss "Whites [at Newbury] till

Inext morning.                        was received at Bath

   July 4th. --At six in the evening
by my brother Alex, and his old housekeeper in a house Mrs.
H. had taken for the next winter in Little Stanhope Street.

The house had been uninhabited, and the furniture moved

into it from the house on Sion Hill by strangers, labourers ;

the things met me helter-skelter in the passage, some

belonging to the drawing-room amongst curry-combs and

bridles and other stable utensils. My first care was to make

Ian inventory of the whole, before let a stranger come into
Ithe house, but by the 10th of July hired a maid of all

Iwork to assist me to bring the house into habitable order,

and by July 29th was ready for resuming the work of re
calculating sweeps, or despatching some copying, &c, which

was sent me by the coach from Slough, and from the

printer in London, my brother being with his family at

Tunbridge Wells.
106 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [isoo.

  ISept. 10th. -- received a box from Slough. My brother

was come home, and Alex, went to assist in re-polishing the

Iforty-foot mirror, and left Bath Sept. 15 ; he returned

   Oct. 2nd. -- Some of my time during his absence spent at
his house on Margaret's Hill to clean and repair his furni

ture, and making his habitation comfortable against his return.

  I IOct. 29th. -- received notice that in about a fortnight

should be wanted at Slough.

FROM DR. HERSCHEL IN LONDON TO CAROLINE HERSCHEL
                                        AT BATH.

Dear Sister, --                    London, Nov. 7, 1800.

ILast night my paper on which have been so long at
Iwork was read at the society.
                                came to London to bring

it, and have been so hurried as not to be able to look out

any work for you, but shall now be at liberty to do some

thing of that kind. My things here are in considerable dis

order, and in a short time Mrs. Herschel and myself wish to

come for a little time to Bath, then we will let you know if

it's soon, that you may come here on a visit before we go,
Ithat may point out to you the work that is most necessary
Ito be done in our short absence.  thought it best to give

you this early notice, because, though we have not fixed upon

the time, it will be towards the latter end of this month that

we mean to come for perhaps a fortnight or three weeks,

Iaccording to the weather ; for, if that should be fine we shall

return, that may have a few sweeps before you go back to
Bath. Miss Baldwin is at Slough, and stays while we are
away, so that you will have company, and the chaise will

also be left, so that you can pay visits at Windsor, and show

yourself to all your friends and ours.
   My last paper consisted of eighty pages, so that you will

Ihave a piece of work to gather it together out of the scraps
   leave. Some part of it was brought together in the
Chap, in.]        Extracts from Diary.                   107

beginning by Miss Baldwin and Mrs. Herschel whicb will

Ishow the order, but the rest remains in bits, which have

gathered together and numbered

    Remember me to our good brother Alexander, and, with

Icompliments from Mrs. Herschel,
                                        remain, dear sister,

                             Your affectionate brother,

                                Wm. Heuschel.

IP.S.--The bacon and cheese are very excellent.          have

not had time to try Alexander's green lenses ; they look

beautiful.

INov. 14th. -- left Bath, slept the night at the inn at New

bury, and left there between three and four.

  INov. 15th.-- anived at my brother's house, and as soon
Ias had dined began to calculate and copy a paper which

·was to go to the R.S.
   Nov. 24th. --My brother went with Mrs. H. and Miss

Baldwin to Bath, the keys to Obs., &c, were given me to

make order and for despatching memorandums which would

Ihave employed me for much longer time than it was likely

should be allowed for doing them to my own satisfaction.

   Dec 15th. -- The family returned, my brother extremely ill,

Iand the next day had my furniture transported to Windsor,
Iwhere had taken a couple of rooms to board and lodge
Iwith my eldest nephew, G. Griesbach, and

   Dec 17th. -- slept there for the first night.
   March 28th. --The MSS. and astronomical books in general

were removed out of the observatory above stairs and lodged

in my brother's library. This alteration proved to be an

additional clog to my business (which besides was daily in

creasing on me) for 1 lost by this means my workroom and

found  it  very*  difficult  to keep the necessary  order among the
       *                *             **                     *
MSS.
108  Caroline Lucretia Herschcl.  [isoo-isoi.

   April 20th. --Moved from Windsor to a small house at
Chalvy, rented from Mr. House, the wood-cutter.

   June 9th. --My brother went to Bath; by the 25th he

*****was returned.
  IJuly 1st. -- Alexander came from Bath.
   July 29th. -- went to Slough to take (along with Alex.)

care of the house whilst my brother, with his family, were

from home.
             ***«»
   February 20th. -- The first time Mrs. BeckedorfFs name

being mentioned in my memorandums as having dined with
her, and the whole party leaving the dining-room on the
Princesses Augusta, Amelia, and the Duke of Cambridge

Icoming in to see me.

   March 2nd. -- went with Mrs. H. and Miss Baldwin to
town on a visit to Dr. and Miss Wilson, and went with a
party to F. Griesbach's concert at the Opera House. The

I4th we returned.

   April 7th. -- shut my house at Chalvy, and went with

my maid to Slough, the latter to supply the place of the

servants Mrs. H. took with her to town.
   May 6th. --My brother went to take a paper to the R. S.,

and remained there till the 15th.

  IMay 26th. -- returned home to Chalvy very ill with a
Ibad leg, having waited too long before called in assistance.

   June 27th. -- The carriage was sent to take me to Slough.
Hitherto work had been daily sent me.

   July 13th. --My brother, Mrs. H., my nephew John, and
Miss Baldwin left Slough to go to Paris.

   August 25th. --All returned with my nephew danger-

   * Mrs. Beckedorff was "the sweet little girl of ten or eleven years old "
with whom Miss Herschel had exchanged pleasant greetings when they were
both taking lessons in dressmaking from Madame Kllster, in Hanover, thirty-

live years before. (See p. 22.)
Chap, in.]  Extracts from Diary.                                          109

ously ill. Going daily for some hours to work at the

Observatory, and to receive visitors and letters, had not
hastened my recovery, for it required no less than seven

Imonths before could be without the attendance of Dr. Pope.
  IMarch 25th. -- moved from Chalvy to Upton.

   April 3rd.-- Spent the day at Slough. Dr. and Miss
Wilson, Miss Whites, and Professor Johnes, from Cam

bridge, were there.

   April 12th. -- Had an account of my sister Griesbach's

death. She died March 30th.                                               worked with my

  IMay 1st. --From the 1st till the 18th
Ibrother at Slough, when he went to town, and returned to
Upton ; but went daily to the library to work till the 26th,

when my brother, with his family, came home from town.
   June 13th. -- Alexander arrived from Bath.

   June 25th. -- Spent a melancholy day at the Queen's
Lodge on account of the French having taken Hanover.

  ISeptember 18th. --My brother Alex, returned to Bath.

   October 18th. -- changed my rooms for the accommoda

tion of Mr. and Mrs. Slaughter, who had taken the house

Iand gardens at Upton, excepting two rooms for my habitation.

   November 6th. -- spent the day at Slough. Professor

ITalis,* with his lady, from Marlow, was there.

   November 19th. -- dined at Slough to meet Dr., Mrs.,
and Miss Maskelyne.

  IDecember. --Almost throughout the whole month worked

at Slough from breakfast till nine in the evening.
   March 16th. --Finished re-calculating sweeps.
   Mem. -- Above 8,760 observations have been brought to

[thAepyreilar4]th1.8--00D. ined at Slough to meet Mrs. Bates and a
large party. In the evening we heard Mrs. B. sing Mad
Bess, &c, &c

   * Probably Professor   Wales,  pmubaltishheemdatiicnalthem"asPtheril.  at Christ's Hospital,
author of a mathematical   paper                                           Trans.," 1781.
110  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [isoi-1805.

  IApril 18th. -- went to Slough. My brother went, with

his family, to Bath.

   May 10th. --My brother returned.
   August 5th. --My brother Alexander came from Bath.

  INovember 22nd. -- went to make some stay at Slough

*****during the time my brother spent in town with his family.
  IDecember lOth.-- returned to Upton.
  IJanuary 14th. -- went, with my brother's family, to a

morning concert, to my nephew, H. Griesbach, to hear the
Hanoverian Concert-Meister Le Vec play.

   March 5th.--Went to make some stay with my brother at

ISlough, Mrs. H. being in town.
   March 27th. --All returned, and went with my work to

Upton again.

  IAugust 14th. -- went to stay with Alex, at Slough while

my eldest brother went with his family from home. They
had intended to have left Slough on the 12th, but were
detained in consequence of a report of an expected invasion.

In September was much hindered in my work by the

packing of the Spanish telescope, which was done at the

barn and rick -yard at Upton, my room being all the while

Ifilled with the optical apparatus.

   September 24th. -- went to work with my brother at Slough.
IOctober 1st. --When Mrs. H., with her niece, returned
from Newbury,  went again to Upton. The Spanish

Itelescope left England in October.*

   November ISth. -- went to Slough, the family to town ;

* The cost of this fine instrument, which had heen ordered by the King of
Chap, in.]      Extracts from Diary.                                                      Ill

but, in the absence of the moon, ray brother was at home,

and much observing, and work was despatched.

  IDecember 1st. -- All came home, and went to my solitude
Iagain.* During the winter months suffered much from a

violent cough and cold, and found great difficulty in des
patching the copying, &c, which daily was sent to me when

I was unable to go to my brother.

*****IMay 1st. -- went to Slough to make some stay with my
*****brother.
July 4th. --My brother went to Gravesend to meet my

youngest brother (who came to pay us a visit), and was

detained there for a passport.
July 6th.--In the evening they both arrived at Slough.
July 10th.--Alexander joined us from Bath
                                                                                          The

same day my eldest brother went to the visitation of the

Observatory at Greenwich, and my brother D. accompanied

him. They returned on the 12th.

   July 13th.--We went all to the Terrace, and took our tea

with Mrs. Bremeyer and Mr. Beckedorff at the Castle.
   July 2Srd.--Dietrich took leave of his friends at Cumber

Iland Lodge. Alex, and accompanied him. In Windsor

I went shopping to buy presents for my Hanoverian relations-

Spain as long before as January, 1796, was £3150. The Prince of Canino paid

£2310 for a ten and a seven-foot telescope from the same indefatigable hands.

But although the pecuniary  profit was  great, it is  ofntoetlessucorppreissin"gas  that Miss.
Herschel should bemoan the   "making    and selling                                 unworthy

of the enormous amount of time and labour which must be withdrawn from

the study of astronomy ; and it is evident that the fatigue and exhaustion

from polishing mirrors told seriously upon Sir William's   health.  time            :  "  I.ina,
  * A characteristic little note from her brother belongs  to this

-- Last night I ' popt ' upon a comet. It is visible to the naked eye, between
                                     the line that joins the two stars. It made an
Fomalhout    and /3 Ceti, but abovo  with 100 and 107 Aquarii. I wrote last
equilateral  triangle (downwards)
night to Sir J. Banks and write now also to Dr. Maskelyne. Adieu.

Dee. 9, 1805."
         Caroline Lucretia Herschel.
*****112                              [1s05-1806.

   July 24th. --D. left us. My eldest brother and Mrs. H.
accompanied him to London.

            ****m

IAugust 1st. -- left Upton for Slough. My brother went
with Mrs. H. and Miss B. on an excursion. My nephew went

to spend the holidays at Newbury, at the Miss Whites.

One man and a woman were left with me to take care of the
Ihouse.
         distracted my thoughts by undertaking an amaz
Iing deal of work ; among the rest, made catalogues of all
books and MSS. my brother's library contained, and ar

ranged them, to the best of my knowledge, according to

what the confined room would allow.

  ISeptember 8th. --My brother and family returned, and
went with my works to Upton. Dr. and Miss Wilson were

at Slough from September 22nd to September 30th.

   Mem. --During September, and the early part of October,

many days were spent at Slough in assisting my brother

Iwhen the 40-foot mirror was re-polishing.
   December 28th. -- went to see Mrs. Bremeyer, but found

she had died ten hours before my arrival at the Castle.

   January 15th. --My brother went to Bath to see his

Ibrother and Sir Wm. Watson.

   January 24th, 5th, and 6th.-- spent with my friends at

Windsor. My brother returned with a violent cough, added

to a nervous headache which it had been hoped would, by

Ichange of air, have been removed. My brother brought the
place of a comet announced in the papers with him.  had

Ialso heard of it at the Castle, and saw it on the 27th at

Upton. Next day had my sweeper carried to Slough, but

Ithe nights of the 28th, 29th, and 30th were not clear enough,

and could not find it again till the 31st, when my brother

began his observations on it
Chap, iii.]  Extracts from Diary.       113

  IMay 2nd. -- left Upton for Slough, to work with my

brother. Mrs. H. being in town till
   June 18th.-- Spent the day at Slough, Mr. and Mrs. Watt

Ibeing there on a visit, and a large party to dinner.

   Aug. 13th. -- went with Mrs. H. and my nephew to

pay a visit to our friends at Cumberland Lodge. My

brother, again finding it necessary to recruit his strength

by absenting himself for a few days from his work-rooms,

had left Slough for Tunbridge Wells just the day before,

and at our return we found the Duke of Kent, with the

Dukes of Orleans, &c, waiting for us, and my nephew
[aetat. 15] and myself showed them Jupiter, the Moon, &c,
Iin the seven-foot.
                                        The Queen and
   Aug. 29t/j. -- dined at the Castle.

Princess Elizabeth honoured me with kind enquiries after

the health of my brother, &c The Princesses Augusta and

IMary also came to see me in Miss Beckedorff's room. On

coming home the next day, found my brother had arrived

the day before.

  Sept. 22nd. --In taking the forty-foot mirror out of the
tube, the beam to which the tackle is fixed broke in the

middle, but fortunately not before it was nearly lowered
into its carriage, &c, &c Both my brothers had a narrow

*****escape of being crashed to death.
           ·****

   Oct. 1st.-- Received an account and letters announcing a

comet.
    Oct. 2nd. -- Saw the comet, visible to the naked eye.

   Oct. 4th. --My brother came from Brighton. The same

night two parties from the Castle came to see the comet,
and during the whole month my brother had not an evening
to himself. As he was then in the midst of polishing the

forty-foot mirror, rest became absolutely necessary after a
114  Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.  [1806-1807.

day spent in that most laborious work ; and it has ever been
 my opinion that on the 14th of October his nerves received
a shock of which he never got the better afterwards ; for on

that day (in particular) he had hardly dismissed his troop
of men, when visitors assembled, and from the time it was

dark till past midnight he was on the grass-plot surrounded

by between fifty and sixty persons, without having had time

Ifor putting on proper clothing, or for the least nourishment

passing his lips. Among the company remember were
the Duke of Sussex, Prince Galitzin, Lord Darnley, a num

Iber of officers, Admiral Boston, and some ladies.

   Nov. 3rd. -- came home to Upton (Mrs. H. returned from

Brighton), but went most days to assist my brother in the

Ipolishing-room or library, and from the 10th December to

the 22nd was entirely at Slough going on as "above unin
terruptedly, Mrs. Herschel being with my nephew, and Miss
^Baldwin at Newbury with the Miss Whites.

   Jan. --Many days at work in the library and workrooms

assisting my brother.

   Feb. 3rd.--When at work in the library the Duke of
Cambridge came in. We were obliged to a storm for his
visit, as he came in for the shelter.

  IFeb. 6th. --When came to Slough to assist my brother
Iin polishing the forty-foot mirror, found my nephew very

ill with an inflammatory sore throat and fever.
   Feb. 9th. -- Still very ill ; and my brother obliged to go

Ion with the polishing of the great mirror, as every arrange

ment had been made for that purpose. Mem. believe my

brother had reason for choosing the cold season for this
laborious work, the exertion of which alone must put any

man into a fever if he were ever so strong.
   Feb. 10th. --From this day my nephew's health kept on

mending.
Chap, in.]  Extracts from Diary.                             115

    Feb. 19$. --My nephew mending, but my brother not

well.

  IFeb. 26th. --My brother so ill that was not allowed to

Isee him, and till March 8 his life was despaired of, and by

   Mar. 10th. -- was permitted to see him, but only for two

or three minutes, for he is not allowed to speak.
   Mar. 22nd. --He went for the first time into his library,

Ibut could only remain for a few moments.
   April 7th. -- went to stay at Slough, my brother going
by short stages to Bath, Mrs. H., my nephew, and Miss
Baldwin with him.

   May 9th. --My brother returned, nearly recovered, but

Iwith a violent cold and cough caught on the journey.

   May 24th. -- went to Slough to be with my brother till
the 31st. In fine nights observing ; working in the day

time, and writing a paper on comets, filled up the time,

though neither my brother nor myself were well.

  IJune 7th. --Was the Montem, of course much company.

   June 13th.-- dined at the Castle to meet Lady and Miss

*****Banks, Mr. De Luc,* &c
July 1st. --Alexander arrived at Slough. Mem. We

received very distressing accounts from our brother at

Hanover.                                                     was

  IJuly 21st till 26th. --My brother was absent, and

daily at work in the library.
   Sept. 5th. --Alexander returned to Bath, leaving his bro

ther far from well. The laborious exertions required for

the polishing of the forty -foot mirror, besides the overlook

ing and directing the workmen out of doors, who were at
work on the repairs of the apparatus, during the month of

August, had again proved too much for him.                                     '

   * De Luc was a geologist of high reputation  ; an ardent  opponent of Hut-
tonian views.                                                         I2
11G Caroline Lucretia Hcrschcl. [iso9.

IOct. 4th. -- went to Slough ; my brother, Mrs. H., my

nephew, and his cousin, went to Brighton. My brother

Iwas absent about a week, during which time worked as
Ilong as could see in the library, and spent the evenings in

booking observations, &c, and such works as could be done

within doors.

   Nov. 2nd. -- My brother went to town, endeavouring to

gain some information about my brother Dietrich, who, ac

cording to a message from a merchant in town, ought to

have by this time been in England.

   Nov. 6th. --A letter from Harwich arrived informing us
that D. was waiting there for a passport.

   Nov. 7th. -- D. arrived at Slough, but was obliged to

return for his trunk and to show himself at the alien office,

and I did not see him till the evening of the 9th.

   Dec. 19th. --Dietrich left Slough for lodgings in Pimlico,
London. Came with Fr. Griesbach the day before Christ

mas Day, and returned to town the 26th.

Mem. From the hour of Dietrich's arrival in England
Itill that of his departure, which was not till nearly four
years after,  had not a day's respite from accumulated

trouble and anxiety, for he came ruined in health, spirit,

and fortune, and, according to the old Hanoverian custom,
I was the only one from whom all domestic comforts were
I Iexpected.
              hope have acquitted myself to everybody's
Isatisfaction, for never neglected my eldest brother's busi
Iness, and the time bestowed on Dietrich was taken en

tirely from my sleep or from what is generally allowed for

meals, which were mostly taken running, or sometimes for

Igotten entirely. But why think of it now !

   Jan. -- Throughout the whole month had a cough, my

nephew a sore throat and fever. Great flood and stormy
weather. The communication between Slough and Upton

was very troublesome to me.
Chap, in.]  Extracts from Diary.                       117

IJan. 13th. -- spent the day at Slough. Dietrich came
Ifor the evening to assist at a concert.
                                          was shocked to
Isee him so much worse, but was obliged to see him return
Ito town the next morning with Fr. Griesbach.
                                               was pre

vented by my own illness and the severity of the weather

Ifrom going to see him in town, and
   Feb. 5th. -- sprained my ankle in coming home in the

evening from Slough, by attempting to walk through the

snow in pattens, and my brother was obliged to send me

Iwork to Upton, for it was not till a fortnight after, that
Icould walk again, and felt the effects of the accident for

above three months after.

  IMar. 9th. -- went to Slough to work with my brother.

His family were from home. Much work was done during

the time, but the polishing the forty-foot was interrupted

on the 24th by the hot weather.

IOct. 2nd. --Alex left Slough.   was very ill, and had Dr.

Pope to attend me.

   Oct. 9th. --Dismissed Pope and went to Dr. Phips.
   Oct. 17th. --My nephew went to Cambridge. His mother
and Miss Baldwin remained in lodgings at Cambridge.
   Nov. 20th. --Phips pronounced me out of danger from

becoming blind, which he ought to have done much sooner,

or rather not to have put me unnecessarily under such

dreadful apprehension.

   Dec 6th. --Dietrich went to London for the winter.
 **********CHAPTER IV.
                       diary --continued -- 1810.

   April 29th. --My nephew took leave of me, returning to

Cambridge.

  IMay Ath. -- went to Slough, my brother going to town
Iwith Mrs. H. He returned after a short stay, and re

mained with him till Mrs. H. came home again. Some of

Imy last days of staying at Slough spent in papering and
Ipainting the rooms was to occupy in a small house of my
Ibrother's attached to the Crown Inn, to which removed.

  IJuly lSt/t. -- went to remain at my brother's house du

ring the time he, with Mrs. H. and Miss Baldwin, went to

Scotland.

*****Sept. 18th.--My brother and the family returned, and

Dietrich came to Slough, a room being prepared for him
in my cottage.

*****Dec 1st. --Dietrich went to town to enter on his winter
**********engagement.
I

         tiiirru f}uisifi.*-j "\ 2j'i' .i'f-hf*i? (* fa* A».i/f.*rtU 11trim'/ tn'/'iffy
                      nK MTH-.w.Y, A.I i llAf ,t.
Chap. IV.]  Extracts from Diary.                    119

IJuly 22nd. --My brother with his family left Slough on a
**********the care of Mrs. Cock, at my habitation.went to his house till
tour to Edinburgh and Glasgow.

Ithey returned, Sept. 18th.                 left him to

  Aug. 6th. --Dietrich came to Slough, and

IMay 11th. -- went to be with my brother ; Mrs. H. went

to town for a month.

   June 1st. --Dietrich came to Slough, disengaged from all

business in town to spend the last few weeks he was to

be in England with us.                              went

 IJune 12th. -- Mrs. H. returned from town, and

home to look to the necessary preparations for Dietrich's

precarious (sic) journey he was obliged to make through

Sweden.

  June 27th. --My eldest brother went to Oxford, came

back the 30th, and Alexander arrived the same day from
Bath.

  July 8th. --Dietrich left us ; Alex accompanied him to

town.

   July 14th. --Dietrich left Harwich, and at the end of the
month we received a letter dated Gottenburg, July 18, and

so far we knew that he was safe, but of receiving any further

account we had not the least prospect, for all communica
tion, with Hanover in particular, was cut off.

  ISept. -- Mrs. Goltermann came to see me, and took a bed

at my cottage, being left alone at my brother's house.
The family were at Dawlish with Sir William Watson.

   Oct. 5th. --My nephew left Slough for Cambridge, with
intention of not returning till his studies were ended at
the University. The latter end of September Mr. Golter
120 Caroline Lucre tia Hcrschel. [isi3.

mann received a few lines which came open through France
to him, dated September 4, showing that a letter of August
15th had been lost, and that at Helsinfors Dietrich had been
robbed of his pocketbook when under examination ; to this
accident we were indebted for knowing that he was got
home, as he was obliged to write for a duplicate bill of
exchange ; sucht letters were, though unsealed, allowed to
pass through France.

  II1813. -- The three last months of the preceding year

spent mostly in solitude at home, except when was wanted

*****to assist my brother at night or in his library.
   Jan. 25th. -- Congratulatory letters arrived from Cam

*****bridge on my nephew's having obtained the Senior

Wranglership. He was then contending for another prize,
which a few days after he also obtained, so that from the
time he entered the University till his leaving he had gained
all the first prizes without exception.
   March 5th. --Miss S. White, with her maid Sally (one of

my nephew's nurses), came to be present at my nephew's

***** Itwenty-first birthday.
  IMarch 7th and 8th. --
Ithere on this occasion, and
joined the company who dined
 must not forget that my nephew

Ipresented me with a very handsome necklace, which  after
                                                    being
wards sent to my niece Groskopf, when a bride, and

too old for wearing such ornaments.

   March 11th.--My nephew went again to Cambridge to

offer himself as candidate for a fellowship, there being three
vacant, and at the conclusion of the examination he ob

Itained the first choice of the three.
   March 25th. -- went to be with my brother. Mrs.
Chap, iv.]    Extracts from Diary.  121

Herschel and Miss Baldwin followed my nephew to Cam
bridge to assist him in settling his occasional residence there.

IMay 3rd. -- intended to pay a long-promised visit to Mrs.

Goltermann, but found my brother too busy with putting

the forty-foot mirror in the tube, the carriage having broke

I I Idown between the polishing-room and the tube. Therefore
   postponed my journey till was sure should not be

Iwanted at home.
   May 10th. -- went to London, and met with a friendly

reception at Mrs. Goltermann's.

  IMay 11th. -- went with Mrs. G. and a Mrs. Kramer to
IKensington.
              remained with Miss Wilson whilst they paid

a charitable visit to the two ladies attendant on the Duchess
of Brunswick, who were left in a very distressed situation

by the death of their mistress.

The evening we spent at Buckingham* House with Mrs.

Beckedorff.

   May 12th. --The forenoon and early part of the afternoon

Iwere spent in shopping and visiting, the evening again at

Buckingham House, where just arrived as the Queen and
Princesses Elizabeth and Mary, and the Princess Sophia

Mathilda of Gloucester, were ready to step into their chairs
going to Carlton House, full dressed for a fete, and meeting
me and Mrs. Goltermann in the hall, they stopped for near

ten minutes, making each in their turn the kindest enquiries

Ihow liked London, &c, &c
  IOn entering Mrs. Beckedorff's room found Madame

D'Arblay (Miss Burney), and we spent a very pleasant

evening.

  IMay 15th. -- went to the Exhibition ; the evening at
IBaron Best's, where met the Beckedorffs. On my return
Ihome found a letter from my brother with Sir William
122 Caroline Lucrctia Hcrschel. [1814.

IWatson's direction that might give them the meeting in
Itown. The next morning spent a few hours with them,
and next day Sir William, with Lady Watson and Miss Jay,

called on me in Charles    Street. Baron   thBees"t   also called
and brought me the place  of a comet from            Hamburger

IZeitungen."
   May IQth.-- went home and found a great deal of work

Iprepared for me. The evening was spent in sweeping for
I

                               it,
the comet, but could not find       the weather was not

clear.

   June 14th. -- returned to continue my works in the day

time at my own rooms, and the fine evenings assisting my

brother when observing, but we were much interrupted by

*****Mrs. H. being seriously ill. She was confined to her room

and bed from the 25th of June till the 8th of August before

perfectly recovered.

   July 24th. --Alexander arrived at Slough to spend the

summer and work with his brother.

   Nov. 18th. -- had call from Miss Joanna Baillie.
   Nov. 29th. --Mr. Rehberg brought the first letter from our
brother Dietrich, dated November 10th, which, though still
written with great caution, gave us, after lapse of sixteen

months, the assurance that he and his family were living.

   Dec 4th. -- met Madame DArblay and Mr. Rehberg,
&c, at the Castle.

   Jan. 1st.--My nephew, John Herschel, brought me, for

New Year's present, new publication by him.

   Mem. --The winter was uncommonly severe. My brother

suffering from indisposition, and for my part, felt should

never be anything else but an invalid for life, but which
II

                aa

                         I,
                                                         a

                                I
                                       Ia
Chap, iv.]  Extracts from Diary.  123

Ivery carefully kept to myself, as wished to be useful tojmy
Ibrother as long as possibly could

  IFeb. 7th. -- was obliged to move to a small cottage in
ISlough, at a considerable distance from my brother.

began to move, and slept there for the first night, the 22nd.

   April 1st. --My brother went to Bath to see his brother and
Sir William Watson. His cough still very bad, and the

12th, when he came home, we learned that he had been

taken very ill on the road and suffered much when at Bath.

It was not till many weeks after, when the warm weather
came on, that he felt relieved. A few days after his return

from Bath, we received notice by a message from the Queen of
the Duchess of Oldenburg's intention of coming to see my
brother's instruments. Everything was put in readiness for

either a morning or evening visit, but the weather being

very bad, the visit was put off till the arrival of the

IEmperor.

   May 4th. -- went to be with my brother. Mr. H. and Miss
B. went to meet my nephew in town, who was keeping a
term in the Temple, where he had commenced to be a

*****student for the law in February.
   June 10th. --My brother, being about this time engaged

with re-polishing the forty-foot mirror, it required some time
to restore order in his rooms before any strangers could be

Ishown into them, and again was assisting him to prepare

for the reception of the Emperor Alexander and the Duchess
of Oldenburg, &c, as they were at Windsor for Ascot Races.
But we might have saved ourselves the trouble, for they

*****were sufficiently harassed with public sights and festivities.
  I ISept. 13th. --During the time was with my brother saw

among the visitors, &c, General P., who informed us of

General Komarzewsky's death, and on my expressing a
124  Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.       [isi5-i6.

hope it might not be true, le General said he had buried

him himself at Paris, and had erected to him a little monu

Iment as long as seven years ago.

   Sept. 30th. -- came to my home again, but under the

Igreatest concern at being obliged to leave my brother with

out my little help. But have since been with him every
morning till he told me he should leave off. His strength

is now, and has for the last two or three years not been

equal to the labour required for polishing forty-foot mirrors.

And it was only by little excursions and absence from his

workrooms, he for some time recovered from the effects of

*****Iover-exertion.
   Nov. 15th. -- went to work with my brother, which chiefly
consisted of calculations and constructing new tables for the

IGeorgian satellites, &c, &c           continued calculat

   Nov. 29th. --Mrs. H. returned, and

ing and copying at home.

   Aug. 11th. -- Alexander left Slough, my eldest brother with
him, going on to Dawlish to recruit his strength again. His

Ideclining health had a sad effect on Alexander's spirits, and
  was in continual fear of the consequences ; for nothing but
the thoughts of the yearly meeting had till now kept up his
spirits. From what is yet to follow, it will be seen that
our next meeting was not only the last, but a very distress

*****Iing one.
   Sept. 11th. -- went to be with my brother, and remained
with him till the 12th of October. The first fortnight of

my being with him he was not able to do anything which
required strength.

  IJan. 2nd. -- was obliged to attend at Slough by eight
Chap, iv.]      Extracts from Diary.  125

o'clock, to be present when the Archdukes John and Louis
of Austria visited my brother and his instruments.

   Jan. 9th. --My nephew received a diploma of being Member
of the University of Gottingen. The packet brought very

satisfactory letters from our brother at Hanover.

  IFeb. 4th. --My brother sent the carriage to fetch me home

[from the Castle], and was desired to write to our brother
Alexander at Bath, from whom a most melancholy letter

had that morning arrived, acquainting us with his being
confined to his bed, having received an injury to his knee.

   April 5th. --My brother received the Royal Hanoverian

Guelphic Order.

   May 12th. --My brother went to town to prepare for going
to a levee at the Regent's next Tuesday. He brought me

*****the keys to the library for going there to work.
IJune 17th. -- went to my brother's house, and was left in

the deepest concern for his health. He went with his family

to Cambridge. [Alexander was to make a journey to Han

over.]

  ISept.
       2nd. --  saw Alexander led by  Captain Stevens  on
.... Iboard
            of whom had the assurance that he would

see Alexander safe to Dietrich's friend, Mr. Munter, in
IBremen. A few hours after left the place [Wapping],
Itaking with me receipts from everybody with whom had
Ihad occasion to keep accounts.
IGoltermann's, where remained

*****ISept. 9th.-- went home.
                    came very ill to Mrs.

                a week under her care.

ISept. 23;cZ.--We were at a fete the Queen gave at Frog-
more.       was obliged to return with my brother soon after

he had been noticed by and conversed with the Queen and
Regent, being too feeble to be long in company.

   Sept. 26th. --We had letters from Hanover to acquaint us
126 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [isn.

with Alexander's arrival in improved health, after a pleasant

journey both by sea and land.
   October, Nov., Dec -- Nothing particular happened, my

Inephew remaining at home working with his father, and
Itook the opportunity of working on my MS. Catalogue at

those times when was left without employment.

        *****

IMarch 27th. -- spend the day at my brother's, Sir Robert

and Lady Liston being there on a visit before their return

Ito Constantinople.
   May 10th.-- met Sir William and Lady Watson at

dinner at my brother's, but was grieved to see the sad

change in Sir William's health and spirits, and felt my only

friend and adviser was lost to me.

**»**

IJune 9th. -- All the family came home.  returned to my

house with astronomical work to finish.  *
June 14th. -- Spent the day at Lady Herschel's to meet

Mrs. and Miss Maskelyne.

   July 10th and 11th. -- Spent at my brother's, the mornings

Iat work in the library the evenings with the company. . . .

   July 14th. -- spent with Mrs. Beckedorff and brought

tickets of invitation to a fete at Frogmore, for our family,

Iwith me ; where we all went on the 17th of July ; but almost

as soon as the Royal party sat down to dinner was obliged

to go home with my brother, after having twice been

*****honoured by the notice and conversation of the Queen
and Regent, &c, &c He found himself too feeble to
Itremain in company.
                      was said that there were above

two thousand persons invited.

* ** * *

Nov. 1th. -- Prepared for going into mourning for the
Chap. IV.]  Extracts from Diary.                127

Princess Charlotte. Mrs. De Luc died a few days after or

Ibefore the Princess.
   Feb. 11th. -- went to my brother, and remained with
him till the 23rd. We spent our time, though not in

idleness, in sorrow and sadness. He is not only unwell but

low in spirits.
   April 13th. --Princess Elizabeth of Hesse Homburg and

the Prince of Hesse Homburg came to see my brother and

his instruments. They were attended by Count O  ,
Baron K
            , and Baron G               . The latter being

well informed in the science of astronomy.

  IMem. lost my attendants, the C.'s, at the latter end of
IApril, and a waste of my time was the consequence, for

never after met with anyone who was deserving of my

trust.

   June 8th. --The Prince and Princess Schaumburg von der

Lippe, attended by Fraulein U., came to see my brother-
Their behaviour to him was truly kind and affectionate on
leaving him, with a hope to see him in the same place --in
the garden at the foot of the forty-foot telescope -- five or six

*****3'ears hence, when they should come to England again.
IJune 25th. --From this day to July 8th was with my

Ibrother. The family at Newbury ; he being so far well

that without interruption, was supplied with copying as he

J Iwrote.
     uly 16th. -- went to my brother's, to be present in the
evening when the Archduke Michael of Russia,    with a
numerous attendance, came to see Jupiter, &c

   July 21st. --

Mem. Began to copy the numbering of stars from my

brother's 2nd volume of Flamsteed's Observations into one of

my own, having succeeded to procure all the three volumes

complete at the price of four guineas.
128 Caroline Lucretia Hcrschcl. [isis.

  IAug. 8th. -- spent the afternoon with my brother, who

found himself very unwell, but with the assistance of my
nephew, he had the pleasure of showing the Princess Sophia
of Gloucester (who came in the evening accompanied by
the Archbishop of Canterbury and several lords and ladies)

Imany objects in the ten-foot telescope.

   Aug. 18th. -- went to my brother's, his family left

home for Brighton, where he intended to follow as soon as
the repairs of the forty-foot should be finished ; but he was

all the time too ill for being anywhere but at home. The

first evening we were alone, the Princess Sophia came to see
the moon. She was accompanied by Lady Mary Paulet,
another lady, and some gentlemen. After their departure,

Imy brother seemed much pleased with the intelligent en

quiries made by the Princess ; but with much concern saw

Ithat he had exerted himself too much above his strength.
   Aug. 25th. -- was obliged to leave my brother for a few

hours to call on the Princess Sophia Matilda, who desired

to see me.

*****

ISept. 8th. -- spent some hours with the Princess at

the Castle.

   Oct. 14th. -- The Ertz Herzog Maximilian of Austria

came to see my brother, charged with messages from his

mother to both my brother and myself, we having had the
honour of seeing her Imperial Highness at Slough, in 1786,

when on a visit to the King, with her husband the Arch

duke of Milan.
INov. 12th. -- spent some hours in the forenoon with
Ithe Princess at the Castle.
                              left her with a promise of

....coming soon again, but it was to be my last visit for a long

time to come, for
Nov. 17th.-- The Queen died. The 3rd of December
chap, iv.]   Extracts from Diary.        129

the Princess returned my books with a kind note, and on

the 4th she left Windsor.

  IDec 5th, 6th, 7th. -- spent in Windsor to see Mrs.
*****funeral of the Queen.
and Miss Beckedorff at short intervals. Miss Wilson, Miss

S. White, Miss Baldwin, Mr. Beckwith (Miss B.'s bride

groom) were visitors for several days at Slough, to see the

                                         

Dec 16th. --My brother went to town, to sit for his

portrait by Mr. Artaud.                  IThe 4th re
   Feb. 3rd. --My brother went to town.

ceived a note from Mrs. Beckedorff, desiring me to spend

Ithe next and bast day with her, but went immediately and
Itook (as then thought) my last leave of both mother and
Idaughter, for could not leave my brother on his return on

the 5th to be received only by the servants, as he went from

home very unwell with a cold.

  IFeb. 7th. --My nephew arrived in town, and on the 12th

all came home and returned to my habitation.

Feb. 28th.-- 1 heard of the death of Mrs. Beckedorff's

daughter, at Hanover. My brother consented to my going

Inext morning to London, and before two o'clock, after had
Iprocured a lodging in Pimlico, was with the poor mourners

Iat Buckingham House, and remained till March 4th, when
   left them, hoping they would be able to leave England on

the 9th.

  IMarch 11th. --Was Miss Baldwin's wedding-day, which

spent at Slough, with the family.

   April 2nd. --My brother left Slough, accompanied by
Lady H. for Bath, he being very unwell, and the constant

complaint of giddiness in the head so much increased, that

they were obliged to be four nights on the road both going

and coming.

The last moments before he stepped into the carriage
130  Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.  [1819-1820.

were spent in walking with me through his library and
workrooms, pointing with anxious looks to every shelf and
drawer, desiring me to examine all and to make memoran

Idums of them as well as could. He was hardly able to
Isupport himself, and his spirits were so low, that found

difficulty in commanding my voice so far as to give him the
assurance he should find on his return that my time had not

I I Ibeen misspent.
   When was left alone found that had no easy task to
perform, for there were packets of writings to be examined
which had not been looked at for the last forty years. But

I did not pass a single day without working in the library as

Ilong as could read a letter without candlelight, and taking

***I **with me papers to copy, &c, &c, which employed me for best

part of the night, and thus was enabled to give my brother
a clear account of what had been done at his return.

   May 1st. --But he returned home much worse than he

went, and for several days hardly noticed my handiworks.

  IJune 21st. -- went with my brother to town. He was to

sit to Mr. Artaud. We remained till Friday, whilst Lady
Herschel entertained the Wilson family at home, who were
attending the funeral of Miss Wilson at Upton.

   July 8th. --We thought my brother was dying. On the
9th he was persuaded to be blooded in the arm which some

thing relieved him.

   Aug. 10th.--My brother and Lady H. took me with

them to town.

   Aug. 11th. --We went to the Bank and did what was

Ithought necessary.

   Aug. 12th.-- went with Lady H. to see my brother's

portrait, and ordered a copy for myself.
    Aug. 25th.--
    Man. -- The 13th we came home, and one day passes like
Chap, it.]             Extracts from Diary.                      131

Ithe other.    have much to do and can do but little beyond

going daily to my brother, and often we are both unable to

look about business. The present hot weather bears hard

on enfeebled constitutions. Thermometer most days above
80 degrees.
IOct.
IOct.
      15th. --  went to my brother, his  family being  in town.
                 returned to my home.
      29th. --

   A small slip of yellow paper, containing the follow

ing lines, traced by a tremulously feeble hand, belongs

to this year :--

I" Lina, -- There is a great comet.      want you to assist
Ifme. Come to dine and spend the day here.
                                                       you can

Icome soon after one o'clock we shall have tune to prepare
maps and telescopes.   saw its situation last night --it has

a long tail."

      July 4th, 1819.

Then follows : --

I" keep this as a relic ! Every line now traced by the

hand  of my    dear brother becomes  a  treasu"reC.  to me.

                                                     Herschel."

   The next year opens, as so many previous ones have

done. The bare facts of the steadily narrowing life
being set down with the same brevity and unswerving
attention to the one object. The family was in much

anxiety on account of the failing health of Mrs. Beck-
with, the niece of Lady Herschel, of whom, as Miss

Baldwin, frequent mention has been made. The spring

and summer were passed in taking the sufferer to dif

                                                                                                   K2
132               Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                           [1819-1821-

ferent places in the country, but she was sinking in a
rapid decline, and died in the autumn.

Nov. 10th. --The remains of Mrs. Beckwith were

brought to Upton to be buried, and to me was left the

melancholy task of keeping up my poor brother's spirits on

such a melancholy occasion, when at the same time my

own were at their lowest ebb, and being besides much

molested about this time by the rejoicing of an unruly

mob at the acquittal (as they called it) of the Princess of

IWales.
   From the 26th to 29th was with my brother.
   March. --We lost our brother Alexander, who died at

Hanover.*
*****May 22nd. --Again with my brother. My chief care was
to see that my brother was not fatigued by too many visitors,,

and reading to him to prevent his sleeping too much.

             iffr n               l|» i(r                               y(»

The volume ends in October: -- 1821.
" Here closed my Day-book, for one day passed like

* The following notice is from a Bristol paper :

"Died. March 15th, 1821, at Hanover, Alexander Herschel, Esq. , well-known

to the public of Bath and Bristol as a performer and elegant musician ; and,

who for forty-seven years was the admiration of the frequenters of concerts and

the"atTreos   of  both those cities, as principal violoncello.  united  considerable  ac
             the  extraordinary merits of Mr. Herschel was

quirement in the superior branches of mechanics and philosophy, and his

affinity to his brother, Sir William Herschel, the illustrous astronomer, was

not less in science than blood. To a large circle of professional friends the

uniform gentlemanly manners of Mr. Herschel have rendered him at once art

object of their warmest regard and respect." Alexander Herschel returned to

Hanover in September, 1816, and was enabled to live in comfortable inde

pendence until his death at the age of seventy-six, through the never failing

generosity of his elder brother.
Chap, iv.] Death of Sir William Herschel.  133

another, except that I, from my daily calls, returned to my

solitary and cheerless home with increased anxiety for each
following day."

   On the 25th of August, 1822, Sir William Herschel
died in his house at Slough.

   A small book, containing a very few pages, entitled

" Memorandum from 1823 to," &c, gives the sad

history of the last days of that long life of indefatig

able toil over which the devoted sister had watched so

long with untiring love. It would be easy, and per

haps in some respects preferable, to tell the story
without the details, but it would be at the cost of

much that is characteristic and illustrative of the

nature which has thus far been unfolded from within,

and it is the last chapter of her life which she thought

worth recalling to memory and committing to paper.
The terrible blow of the death of her brother seems

to have deprived her of all power or desire to do or to
will anything beyond the one stern, dogged resolve to
leave England for ever as soon as the beloved remains

were buried from her sight. Six months after her

return to Hanover she thus prefaced this last and most

pathetic of her Recollections :--

                           IHanover, April 15lh, 1823.

"Eighteen months have elapsed since could acquire

fortitude enough for noting down in my Day-book any of
Ithose heartrending occurrences
                                 witnessed during the
Ilast nine months of the fifty years have lived in England,
I Iand cannot hope that ever a time will come when shall

be able to dwell on any one of those interesting but melan
134 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [1822.

Icholy hours spent with the dearest and best of brothers.
IBut if was to leave off making memorandums of such
Ievents as either affect or are interesting to me, should
Ifeel like what am, viz., a person that has nothing more to

do "inButhtistowroergladi.n the thread of my narration, it is necessary

to take notice of the vacancy between the present date and

Ithe ending of the year 1821, and the only way in which
can possibly fill up this vacancy must be to take a few dates

with memorandums marked in my almanac and account

books for the year 1822, without making any comments on

what my feelings and situation must have been throughout

Itha"t
whole interval.  wrote during the first four months of
By some letters
I I1822 to my brother here at Hanover, [see that was
employed in copying from the Philosophical Transactions

Ithe first twelve papers of my brother's publications. The
time required for this purpose  could only obtain by

making use of most of the hours which are generally

allotted to rest, as during the day my time was spent in

endeavours to support my dear brother in his painful

decline. And besides, the hope that we might continue yet

Ia little longer together began to forsake me, for my own

health and spirits were in that state that was in daily

Iexpectation of going before.* Therefore each moment of

separation from my dear brother spent in endeavours to

J.arrange my affairs so that my nephew, Herschel, as the

executor of my will, might have as little trouble as possible.

   * Although Miss Herschel was endowed by nature with a fine healthy con
stitution, she suffered much in various ways during the last twenty-five years
of her life ; and there is little doubt that her health was injured, to a consi

derable extent, by the excessive fatigue and serious accidents to which she was
exposed in her earlier days, when she often denied herself rest that was impe
ratively needed, in order to be at hand when her brother required her

services.
Chap, iv.] Recollections written at Hanover.                  135

I[A letter of eighteen pages would have been found along

with a will, if had (as I then daily expected) died before my

Ibrother. After the sad events of the succeeding two years,

   thought it necessary to destroy both the will and the

Iletter.] My thoughts were continually divided between my

brother's library, from which was now on the point of being

severed for ever, and my own unfinished work at home
endeavouring to bring by degrees all into its proper place."

                          Diary -- (continued).
   May ISr/i. --Lady Herschel and my nephew went to town r

I was left with my brother alone, but was counting every
I Ihour till should see them again, for was momentarily

afraid of his dying in their absence.  *
           *               *                  *
May 20th.

The summer proved very hot ; my brother's feeble nerves

were very much affected, and there being in general much

company, added to the difficulty of choosing the most airy

rooms for his retirement.

  IJuly 8th. -- had a dawn of hope that my brother might
Iregain once more a little strength, for have a memo

randum in my almanac of his walking with a firmer step

than usual above three or four times the distance from the

Idwelling-house to the library, in order to gather and eat

raspberries, in his garden, with me. But never saw the

like again.                was seized by a bilious fever,

  IThe latter end of July
Iand could for several days only rise for a few hours to go

to my brother about the time he was used to see me. But

Ione day was entirely confined to my bed, which alarmed

Lady Herschel and the family on my brother's account.

IMiss Baldwin* called and found me in despair about my

own confused affairs, which never had had time to bring

* A younger sister of Mrs. Beckwith, niece of Lady Herschel.
136  Caroline Liuretia Herschel.                            [1822-1823.

Iinto any order. The next day she brought my nephew to

me, who promised to fulfil all my wishes which should

have expressed on paper ; he begged me not to exert myself

for his father's sake, of whom he believed it would         be  the

immediate death if anything should happen to me                   *
I IOf my dear nephew's advice could not avail myself, for

knew that at that time he had weighty concerns on his mind.

And, besides, my whole life almost has passed away in the

delusion that next to my eldest brother, none but Dietrich

was capable of giving me advice where to leave my few relics,

Iconsisting of a few books and my sweeper. And for the

last twenty years kept to the resolution of never opening

my lips to my dear brother William about worldly or

serious concerns, let me be ever so much at a loss for

knowing right from wrong. And so it has happened that at

Ithe time when was stupefied by grief at seeing the death
I Iof my dear brother, gave myself, with all was worth, up

Ito my brother Dietrich and his family, and from that time
till the death of D.  found great difficulty to remain

mistress of my own actions and opinions. In respect to the

latter we never could agree. And this it was which

prompted me to send Flamsteed's works to Gottingen (I
would rather have kept them till now) for fear they might be

offered for sale. Having about this time received very dis

I Itressing accounts of family misfortunes from my brother at

Hanover, could find no rest on his account till should

Ihave made my £500 stock over to him, but this required my

presence at the bank, and could not think of leaving
Slough till my brother should be engaged for some days

with his family previous to the departure of my nephew,

Iwho was going to accompany a friend abroad. And besides,
  knew that my absence would then be scarcely perceived,

     * This passage is a later note, added Sept. 26, 1828.
Chap, iv.] Recollections written at Hanover.          137

as a very sensible elderly lady (Mrs. Monson) would be
there on a visit.

  IAug. 8th. -- went, and at six o'clock in the afternoon of
Ithe 10th was home again. My nephew had left Slough

the same morning.

  I found my brother seated by the ladies, but so languid
Ithat thought it necessary to take a seemingly unconcerned

Ileave for the night.                   went as usual to spend
    Aug. 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th

I Isome hours of the forenoon with my brother.  was wont

   Aug. 15th. -- hastened to the spot where
Ito find him with the newspaper which was to read to him.
IBut instead found Mrs. Morson, Miss Baldwin, and Mr.

Bulman, from Leeds, the grandson of my brother's earliest
Iacquaintance in this country.
                                was informed my brother
Ihad been obliged to return to his room, whither flew

immediately. Lady H. and the housekeeper were with him,

Iadministering everything which could be thought of for
supporting him.  found him much irritated at not being

able to grant Mr. Bulman's request for some token of

Iremembrance for his father. As soon as he saw me,

was sent to the library to fetch one of his last papers and a

Iplate of the forty-feet telescope. But for the universe
Icould not have looked twice at what had snatched from the
shelf, and when he faintly asked if the breaking up of
                            said " Yes," and he looked con
the Milky Way was in
                 I
tent.                 iIt,
       I  cannot help remembering this circumstance,  it

was the last time was sent to the library on such an

occasion. That the anxious care for his papers and

workrooms never ended but with his life was proved by

his frequent whispered inquiries they were locked and the
                 I

                                    if
key safe, of which took care to assure him that they were,

and the key in Lady Herschel's hands.

After half an hour's vain attempt to support himself,
138 . Caroline Lucretia HerscJtel.    [1822.

my brother was obliged to consent to be put to bed,

leaving no hope ever to see him rise again. For ten

days and nights we remained in the most heartrending
situation till the 25th of August, when not one comfort was

left to me but that of retiring to the chamber of death,

Ithere to ruminate without interruption on my isolated
situation. Of this last solace  was robbed on the 7th

September, when the dear remains were consigned to the

grave.

  ISept. 9th.-- returned to my house and began select
Iing the books and clothing should want to take with me
Ito Hanover, where thought it best to go with the Michael

Imas messenger.

   Sept. 27th. -- had disposed of my furniture, partly by

Ipresents and partly by sale ; and after settling with my

landlord, &c, left my house for Lady Herschel's, to remain
there till business should call her and my nephew to town.

   Oct. 3rd. --My friends as well as myself were made easy

by the arrival of my brother Dietrich, who came to fetch

Ime.
   Oct. 7th. -- took leave of Princess Augusta and all my

Ifriends and connections in Windsor.  left Slough with my

   Oct. 10th. --At 9 in the morning
brother D. Lady H. and my nephew followed the next

day.
            #*#**

   Oct. 14th. --Princess Sophia Mathilda sent her carriage

Ifor me to spend the day with her at Blackheath.
   Oct. lGth. -- went with my brother to Mortlake to take

leave of Baron Best and family; and thence we directly

Iproceeded to Bedford Place, where all my friends were as

sembled, among whom had the comfort of seeing once more
my nephew's friend, and the favourite of my dear departed
brother, Mr. Babbage. He had only that day arrived from
Chap, iv.] Recollections written at Hanover.         139

Ithe North.  could find no opportunity for any conver

sation with him, but just by a pressure of the hand

recommended my nephew in incoherent whispers to the

continuance of his regards and friendship.           was

  IFrom all these sorrowing friends and connections

Iobliged to take an everlasting leave, and in the few hours

we were for the last time together, was obliged to sign

I ....many papers, among which was a receipt for a half year's
legacy signed this with great reluctance      but Lady
H. and my nephew insisted on my taking it, according to my

brother's will. This unexpected sum has enabled me to

Ifurnish myself with many conveniences on my arrival here,

of which otherwise should have perhaps debarred myself.
   Oct. 17th. --In the morning we left our lodging for an

inn near the Tower. Mr. Beckwith joined us, and settled

at the Custom House for our baggage. My nephew came

Ifor a moment to us, and after his departure saw no one
I knew or who cared for me.

   Oct. 18th. --At ten o'clock we went on board of the steam

packet.

   Oct. 20th. --At noon we landed after a stormy passage

at Rotterdam.

   Oct. Hist. --At daybreak we began to proceed on our way,

and

   Oct. 28th. --We arrived at the habitation of my brother,
in Hanover.

   A note, dated September 29th, 1828, apologizes to

her nephew for troubling him with the above and

other papers, adding :--

  I Ihave destroyed my Day-book, but in doing so was
Itempted to extract some dates which thought might still

be interesting to me, and bring the past once more to my
140  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1822.

Irecollection ; but as that would only be a drawback to the

satisfaction almost daily may enjoy by hearing of the fame
of my dear nephew, it is best to remove all that can bring

the past to my recollection.

    The letters which follow are the only documents
from which any particulars can be drawn for this and
many following years. No Day-book or note-book of
any kind appears to have been kept, or at any rate
preserved, from the time of the return to Hanover
in October, 1822, until the year 1833.
                         CHAPTER V.

                                      RETROSPECTION.

   As we close the record of Miss Herschel's residence
in England, we may pause for a moment to look back
over the space she had traversed while following, with
unvarying diligence and humility, the path her brother
marked out for her, first in blessed hourly companion
ship, when she was as necessary in his home as in his

library, or among his instruments ; and latterly, when
with saddened heart but unflagging determination she
continued to work for him, but saw his domestic
happiness pass into other keeping.

   While they toiled together through those first ten
years of ever-deepening interest and marvellous acti
vity, during which the rapid juxtaposition of mirror-
grinding, concerts, oratorios, music lessons,* and fre
quent papers written for philosophical societies, almost

takes the breath away as we read, -- the brother had

" abundant opportunity of learning how far he could
trust to his companion's readiness, as well as capability,

   * At this time W. Herschel frequently gave thirty-five and thirty-eight

lessons a week to lady pupils.
142 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [1822.

to accept of duties as utterly remote from all that her

previous life had prepared her for as if he had asked

her to accompany him on a pilgrimage to Mecca.

And thus, of all of whom he had made trial, it was

not the brilliant Jacob, nor the gifted Alexander, but
the little quiet, home-bred Caroline, of whom nothing

had been expected but to be up early and to do the

work of the house, and to devote her leisure to knitting

and sewing, in whom he found that steady devotion

to a fixed purpose which he felt it was possible
to link Avith his own. "I did nothing for my
brother," she said, " but what a well-trained puppy-
Idog would have done : that is to say, did what he
Icommanded me.
                was a mere tool which he had the

trouble of sharpening." Such was always her own

modest self-estimate. It is hardly too much to say

that, to have worked as she had worked, and to have

done all that she had accomplished, and to claim no

more than the credit due to passive obedience to

orders, is a depth of humility of that rare and noble

kind which is in itself a form of greatness. It must

not be forgotten, that the progress of astronomical
science since Sir William Hcrschel's great reflector

startled the world, has not been greater than has

been the change, both in opinion and practice, on
the subject of female employments and education.

The appointment of a young woman as an as

sistant astronomer, with a regular salary for her
Chap, v.]  Retrospection.  143

services, was an unprecedented occurrence in England.
She had watched and snared in every effort and
every failure from the first seven-foot telescope to
the construction of the ponderous machinery that
was to support the mighty tube of which she herself
made the first crude model in pasteboard. When,
finally, her brother was summoned to the King, and
wrote to tell her how he fared at Court, she accepted
the decision, by which he exchanged a handsome in
come for the sake of obtaining the command of his own
time, and £200 a-year from his gracious sovereign,
with only a passing expression of regret from the
housekeeper's point of view, and threw herself heart
and soul into the new fife at Datchet. One all-sufficing

Ireward sweetened her labours -- " had the comfort to

see that my brother was satisfied with my endeavours
in assisting him." When the dignity of original
discovery gave her a distinct and separate claim to
the respect of the astronomical world, she must

have found out that she was something better
than a mere tool. The requisite knowledge of
algebra and mathematical formulae for calculations and
reductions she had to gather when and how she could :
chiefly at breakfast, and at any odd moments when
her brother could be asked questions, and the answers
were carefully entered in her Commonplace Book,
where examples of taking equal altitudes, and how to
convert sidereal time into mean time, follow upon
144 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [1822.

pages of problems, oblique plain triangles, right-angled
spherical triangles, how to find the logarithm of a num
ber given, and theorems for making tables of motion.
With this slender store of attainment she accomplished
a vast amount of valuable work, besides the regular
duties of assistant to so indefatigable an observer as
Sir William Herschel. He was invariably accustomed

to carry on his telescopic observations till daybreak,

circumstances permitting, without any regard to season ;

it was the business of his assistant to note the clocks

and to write down the observations from his dicta

tion as they were made. Subsequently she assisted in

the laborious numerical calculations and reductions, so

that it was only during his absences from home, or
when any other interruption of his regular course of

observation occurred, that she was able to devote

herself to the Newtonian sweeper, which she used
to such good purpose. Besides the eight comets by
her discovered, she detected several remarkable

nebulae and clusters of stars previously unnoticed,
especially the superb nebula known as No. 1,
Class V., in Sir William Herschel's Catalogue. Long
practice taught her to make light of her work.

"An observer at your twenty-foot when sweeping,"

she wrote many years after, "wants nothing
but a being who can and will execute his com
mands with the quickness of Ughtning ; for you will
have seen that in many sweeps six or twice six objects
Chai,. v.]  Retrospection.  145

have been secured and described in one minute of

time."

    The ten years from 1788 to 1798, although a blank

as regards her personal history -- the Recollections
cease with her brother's marriage -- were among the

busiest of her life, and in the year last men

tioned the Royal Society published two of her works,

namely, "A Catalogue of 860 Stars observed by

Flamsteed, but not included in the British Cata

logue," and " A General Index of Reference to every

Observation of every Star in the above-mentioned

British Catalogue." It is in reference to these that

she wrote the very interesting letter to the Astronomer
Royal, which is given among others, in its place, in
the Journal. But another work, which was not

published, was the most valuable, as it was the most
laborious of all her undertakings. This was " The
Reduction and Arrangement in the form of a Cata
logue, in Zones, of all the Star-clusters and Nebulae

observed by Sir W. Herschel in his Sweeps." It sup

plied the needful data for Sir John Herschel when he

undertook the review of the nebulas of the northern

hemisphere ; and it was for this that the Gold Medal

of the Royal Astronomical Society was voted to her
in 1828, followed by the extraordinary distinction of
 an Honorary Membership. This Catalogue was not
 completed until after her return to Hanover, and Sir
 David Brewster wrote of it as " a work of immense
146 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. LI822.

labour," and " an extraordinary monument of the

unextinguished ardour of a lady of seventy-five in

the cause of abstract science."
    Although the Recollections cease in 1788, there

are some volumes recording the nature and results
of her nightly " sweepings," which Miss Herschel

kept very regularly, and, as an unique example of
a lady's journal, a few of the entries may be of in

terest.

    1788. Sept. 9th. --My brother showed me the five satel
lites of Saturn. He made me take notice of a star, which

made a double star last night with the fifth satellite.

  IDec 8th. -- swept for a comet which was announced

in the papers as having been discovered the 26th of Novem
 ber by Mr. Messier. According to the observations of that

Idate, it should have been within a few degrees of the

 Pole star (by my brother's calculation), but though swept

Iwith great attention a space of at least ten or twelve

 degrees all around the pole over repeatedly, could find
 nothing.

    Another night of unavailing search, with thermometer

I20°.*

    1790. Jan. 7th. -- have swept all this evening for my

I[third] comet in vain. My brother showed me the G. Sidus

 in the twenty-foot telescope, and saw both its satellites

Ivery plainly.

    1791. Aug. 2nd. -- began to sweep at 1.30, from the

    * It was not an unknown circumstance for the ink to freeze while she was

 attending to take down her brother's observations.
chap, t.]  Her Sweepings.                                                                        147

horizon through the Pleiades up as high as the head of

IMedusa. Left off with /3 Tauri. Afterwards continued

-with horizontal sweeps till daylight was too strong for see

ing any longer.
   1792. May 3rd.--My brother having desired me by way

of practice to settle the stars a Persei and Castor, and a Vir-

Iginis, by some neighbouring stars in Wollaston's Catalogue,
   made last night an attempt to take their places. The

moon was near the full, therefore no sweeping could be

done.      May 1st. --Mem. In the future when any great
    1795.

chasms appear in my journals, it may be understood that

Isweeping for comets has not been neglected at every op
portunity which did offer itself. But as  always do

sweep according to the precept my brother has given me,

I Iand as often am in want of time, think it is very im
Imaterial if the places where have seen nothing are noted

down.                                IAbout an hour ago
   Nov. 7th. -- 0.40 sidereal time.

saw the comet [seventh] which is marked in the annexed

Ifield of view [diagrams drawn with extreme neatness illus

trate the entries when necessary]. When perceived it

           it,

                       a

                                    it

                                                              a

                                                I it,

                                                                           ; it
first the two small stars were entirely covered by and

appeared to be cluster of stars mixed with nebulosity

but not knowing of such an object in that place, kept

watching and perceived      to be comet by its having

moved from the two small stars, so as to leave them en

tirely free from haziness.

1797. Aug. l4th.--C. H.'s comet. At 9.30 common

time, being dark enough for sweeping, began in the usual
           a

                         I

                                               8,

                                                                                             i,

                                     2I
manner with looking over the heavens with the naked eye,

and immediately saw comet nearly as bright as that which

was discovered by Mr. Gregory, January 1793.                                                     went

down from the observatory to call my brother Alexander,
148 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [1822.

Ithat he might assist me at the clock. In my way into the

garden was met and detained by Lord S. and another

gentleman, who came to see my brother and his telescopes.
IBy way of preventing too long an interruption, told the
Igentlemen that had just found a comet, and wanted to
Isettle its place.
                    pointed it out to them, and after having

seen it they took their leave.

    These entries were continued with great regularity
to the year 1819, at which time, as the Diary shows,
Sir William's increasing feebleness made her close

daily attendance more necessary, and her pen was in

greater request than the " sweeper." The last volume
concludes with a carefully drawn eye-draft of the

situation of a comet visible at Hanover, January 31st,

1824. Thenceforth the instrument which had done

such good service in her hands for forty years of

steady work, became the chief ornament of her sitting-
room, until her disquieting fears for its ultimate fate
led her to send it back to England.

    Sad as is the story of those last years of declining
old age, while the beloved brother lived we know that

his sister's life was full of occupation. It is not until

the cruel hour comes, and she knows that death and the

grave will soon claim him, that she allows the sense of
her own bitter desolation to find expression. When all

was over, her only desire seems to have been to hurry
away. Hardly was he laid in his grave than she col

lected the few things she cared to keep, and left for
ever the country where she had spent fifty years of her
Chap, v.]  Retrospection.  149

life, living and toiling for him and him only. " If I

should leave off making memorandums of such events

Ias affect, or are interesting to me, should feel like --
Iwhat am, namely, a person that has nothing more

to do in this world." Mournful words : doubly mourn

ful when we know that the writer had nearly half an

ordinary lifetime still between her and that grave which
she made haste to prepare, in the hope that her course
was nearly run. "Who can think of her, at the age of

seventy-two, heart-broken and desolate, going back to

the home of her youth in the fond expectation of find
ing consolation, without a pang of sympathetic pity ?
She found everything changed. In addition to those
changes, for which she might have been in some measure
prepared, there were others of a kind to admit of neither

 cure nor alleviation. The life she had led for fifty
 years had removed her, she little guessed how much,
 from the old familiar paths : her thoughts, her habits,
 all her ideas had been formed and moulded in a totally
 different world : more bitter still, she found herself

 alone in her great sorrow and quenchless love ; pride
 in the distinction reflected on themselves from rela

 tionship to the illustrious astronomer was a miser
 able substitute for the reverential affection she had

 looked to find for one of the kindest and most generous

 of brothers. But the bitterest suffering of all was

  from a source which Avas, and ever remained, beyond
  the reach of help. " You don't know," wrote one of
150        Caroline Lucretia Herschel.   [1822.

Miss Edgeworth's sisters, " the blank of life after
having lived within the radiance of genius ; " and
this was the blank in which Miss Herschel doomed,

herself not only to live, but to try to begin anew,

when past three score and ten. The extracts from

her letters bear strong testimony to the gallant struggle

she made to find interests and occupations in what

those about her, as well as she herself, looked upon as

Ia kind of exile, and " Why did leave happy Eng

land ? " was often her cry, more especially as time

went on, and interest in her nephew and his family

came mercifully to fill the heart still so yearning and

ready for affection. When she heard the news of Sir

John Herschel's intended departure for the Cape, she
wrote, " Ja ! if I was thirty or forty years junger and
                                      "
could  go  too ? in  Gottes  nahmen      her interest in
                                     !

the science to which she had devoted her best years

never ceased, though she persisted to the end in ridi

culing the bare suggestion that the Rosse telescope

could by any possibility be so good as the forty-foot.

The homage paid to her as a savante amused as well
as gratified her. " You must give me leave to send

you any publication you can think of," she wrote to
her nephew, " without mentioning anything about

Ipaying for them. For it is necessary should every

now and then lay out a little of my spare cash in

that for the sake of supporting the reputation of being

a learned lady (there is for you for am not only
                             !),

                                I
Chap, v.]  Retrospection.  151

looked at for such a one, but even stared at here in
Hanover!" Her deprecation of the membership of
the Irish Academy, conferred on one who for so
many years had " not even discovered a comet" was
thoroughly sincere as well as characteristic, but she
found pleasure in receiving the homage which was
naturally paid to her; no man of any scientific
eminence passed through Hanover without visiting
her ; * and it became a matter of public concern to
note the presence of the well-known tiny figure at the
Theatre, where her constant appearance in extreme
old age was in itself a marvel. The frugal simplicity
of her habits made it a positive perplexity to dispose
of her income ; she protested that £50 a-year was all
 she could manage to spend on herself, and she per
 tinaciously resisted receiving the pension of £100
 per annum left to' her by her brother, often de
 voting the quarterly or half-yearly payment to the
 purchase of some handsome present for her nephew or
 niece. She wrote full instructions and made the

 most careful arrangements for every detail of business
 in connection with her own burial and the disposal of
 her property -- that is of the little she reserved, for her
 generosity towards her relations was as great as the

 expenditure on herself was small.

   IIn these last remarks have anticipated events, and

      * From the Royal Family she received the most kind and graceful at
   tentions.
152 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [1822.

must nonreturn to the year 1822, when the corre

spondence begins.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

IDear Lady Herschel, -- Rotterdam, Monday, Oct. 21, 1822.
      At this present moment have nothing to wish for,

besides the means of convincing myself by one look of your

and my dear nephew's health. After a very troublesome

passage of forty-eight hours, we find ourselves almost re

stored to our former condition and composure, with only the

difference that we have no more hunting after our trunks

from Custom-house to Custom-house, and can proceed on

our way to Hanover in peace after one night's rest here in

a very good inn. But the last night was truly dismal, for

the sailors themselves confessed that it was what is called a

high sea. At one time a spray conveyed a bucket-full of

I Iwater into my bed, which was regarded as nothing in com
parison to the evils with which was surrounded.  was

Ithe most sick of all on board, and the poor old lady was

pitied by all who enquired after her, but had four ladies

Iin the same cabin with me, who encouraged me to hold out,

which at one time thought would have been impossible.

Something happened to the vessel for want of a good pilot

in the Thames, and at Blackwall we laid still three hours,

then we hobbled on to near Gravesend, and there lay in a

high sea at anchor all night, whilst they were hatching

and thumping to mend the vessel we were to go in. In

consequence of this, we could not reach the spot where a

Ipilot could meet us time enough on Sunday evening, and

lay again at anchor. At half past eleven set foot on

shore, where so many people were assembled to gaze on us

Ithat it set me a crying, and now am glad to be shut up
Ionce more in a room by myself and where can make proper
Chap. V.]  Journey to Hanover.                        153

Ipreparations for travelling further, which hitherto  have
Inot had the opportunity of doing. All my clothes which

Ihad prepared for the ship or sleeping on the road were

locked up at the Custom-house, and could not get hold of

Ithem again till we entered this house. So much for our

adventures at present, and beg and hope you will soon and

often let us know how you are with my nephew, and how
and where you can pass the following winter months in the

most comfortable way.

   My brother is gone into the street to look about him.

IThe weather is fine, and wish my dear nephew was with

Ihim, for it looks very tempting and new all about me, and

think he would enjoy seeing the bustle on the water with

which this house is surrounded. My brother has charged

me with millions of compliments and thanks to yourself and

Iour nephew, but cannot afford him quite so many, as else
Ithere would be no room for all those owe to my dear Lady

H. and my nephew, who took last Friday so long a walk to

Isee us once more. My fears for what was to come and

regret for what left behind were so stupifying that it made

me almost insensible to all what was passing about me,

Ionly this shall remember, with satisfaction, that his looks
Iwere better than have seen for a long time past.

  I am now going to direct the little parcel for Professor

Swinden, and likewise to Mr. Crommelin, jun., and to

Professor Moll, at Utrecht, and Gauss will not be forgotten

as we go along.

  I Ibeg you will remember me to Miss Baldwin (who
Ihope is with you), and particularly to Mr. Beckwith, whom

  shall never be able to thank sufficiently for the friendly care

he has shown to me on all, and especially on the last

occasion of helping me on with my packages.

Farewell, my dear Lady Herschel, and let me hear soon

that you and my nephew are well.
154 Caroline Lticretia Herschcl.               [1822.

   Miss Baldwin will write, and of course she will inform me
of her own and all friends' health, &c

                                      Ever your affectionate
                                                       Car. Herschel.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dear Lady Herschel, --  Hanover, Oct. 30, 1822.

We arrived here at noon, on the 28th, without the

least accident, but not without the utmost exertion and

Iextreme fatigue to both my brother and myself, from which

it will be some time before shall get the better, on account

Iof the many visits of our friends, who come to convince

themselves of our safe arrival, of which hope you will

have been informed long before this can reach you, as Mr.

IQuintain has promised me to send you a line the moment
he reaches London. He left Hanover yesterday.  had

wrote a letter in hopes he would have taken it, but that

was impossible, and the post from here has been changed

from Tuesday to Monday.

Mr. Housman called also here yesterday, and you may

easily imagine that many inquiries are made after you and

Imy dear nephew by all those who come near me, and

hope you will soon enable me, by a few lines, to inform

them of your welfare and health, and give me the comfort

to know that you have regained some of your former com

posure, after the late melancholy change and unsettled
state in which we all were involved.

  I found Mrs. H. in personal appearance so different from
I Iwhat had imagined, that can hardly believe her to be the

same ; she is just sixty-three years of age, and suffers much

from rheumatism, which has taken away partially the use

of her hands, but she is still of so cheerful a disposition

and so active by way of overcoming disease by exercise,
Char v.]  Arrival in Hanover.                     155

Ithat cannot wonder enough, and her reception of me was

truly gratifying ; the handsomest rooms, three or four times

I Ilarger than what have been used to, from which can

step in her own apartments, have been prepared for me

Iand furnished in the most elegant style. But cannot say
Ithat feel well enough to enjoy all these good things nor

be able to show myself to those who wish to see me, at

least not at present.                             had been

  IMrs. Beckedorff sent to enquire after me when

hardly two hours arrived. Miss B. is confined with a severe

cold. My brother went yesterday to see them, and we have
postponed our meeting till Saturday, when she will come to

I Itown for the winter.
   From Rotterdam
          sent a letter which        hope you have

received, and by which you will have seen that our passage

was not of the most agreeable kind.

The papers to Professor Van Swinden, Crommelin jun.,

at Amsterdam, and Professor Moll, at Utrecht, have been

Idelivered, but that to Gauss, am sorry to say, is either
I Ilost or mislaid, for cannot find it anywhere, [and am

vexed to give [my dear nephew so bad a sample of my

willingness to be of use to him. Perhaps through Mr.

IQuaintain he might get one over when the Duke of Cam

bridge returns, else the next conveyance know of is at

IChristmas, by Gotterman.                         Iwho,
      beg my love to my nephew and Miss Baldwin,
hope, will soon let me know how you are, &c

          Believe me,

          Your truly and affectionate

                                     Car. Herschel.
156 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel. [1822.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

                                                              Hanover, Nov. 12, 1822.

I IMy dear Lady Herschel, --
          hope you have received the letter which sent by

Ithe first post which went from here after my arrival, dated

31st October, and also one wrote in Rotterdam, by which

you will have seen what a disagreeable passage we had at

sea, but all those frights and fears, and the troubles and

fatigues of the journey we afterwards experienced by land

appear now to have been nothing but a dream, and my

waking thoughts are for ever wandering back to the scenes

If Iof sorrows which embittered the afflicting and final parting
from my revered brother.  could but be assured that

you and my dear nephew at this present moment were in

Itolerable health and othenvise exempted from vexation,

should feel myself much more comfortable, but it is hard to

live for months without knowing what may have happened

to those with whom one has been for so many years imme

diately connected and in the habit of keeping up a daily

intercourse.

  I have hitherto not been able to overcome a dislike to
Igoing abroad, and what little have seen of Hanover (in my

way to the families of my two nieces and Mrs. Beckedorff
Iwho live all close by) do not like ! And though some
Istreets have been enlarged (as am told), they appear to me
Imuch less than left them fifty years ago. But a total
Iseclusion from society

Iwill not be ungrateful,
will not do for a continuance, for

must call on the Delmerings, &c,--

who have been here. Mrs. D. is grown quite fat and very

handsome, her daughter is a head taller and a very pretty

young woman ; the eldest son is already in the service with
the Erz Herzog of Strelitz, and there has been no increase

in the family since they left England. Mrs. D. made many
CHAr. V.]  Life in Hanover.                       157

inquiries after you and my nephew's health, and gratefully
remembers the kindly treatment she received at all times

from you.

  IAr0t\ 18th. -- Mrs. Beckedorff and Miss B. and myself

have been laid up with severe colds, and am still unable
to go into company, but Mrs. B. sent Dr. Mury to make her

Iexcuse for not returning my visit. The first time went

to them, Mrs. B. made all her ten grandchildren stand up

Ibefore me according to their ages, and a fine healthy family

it is. But all the little folks am introduced to are disap

Ipointed at finding me to be only a little old woman ; which
  suppose must be owing to having been told the Great Aunt

ICaroline from England was coming.     have seen nothing
   From the family of my eldest niece

as yet, and probably shall not before next summer, as her

Iaffairs must remain for some time in an unsettled state.
did not know till we were within sight of Hanover how
Igreatly
           was obliged to my brother for coming to fetch me,
Ifor find he was but barely recovered from a serious illness
when he left home, which had been occasioned by travelling
to and fro to his daughter, who was in need of the support

of both her parents on losing her 'husband after a few

days' illness ; in the same week she had given birth to a son,
and was made a widow with nine children in her 38th year.

But, happily, she is blessed with an uncommon share of
understanding and fortitude, besides the means of seeing

them well educated and improving their fortunes.
INov. 2,7 th. --You will see, my dear Lady H., by the
above, that at different times  have been employed in

giving a circumstantial account of all what concerns that

Ipart of my family amongst whom came to end my days ;
I Ibut would not conclude, nor send off my letter, till
should have received some satisfactory account of your well

being, and the arrival of the last post has given a most
158 Caroline Lucrctia Herschcl. [1822.

agreeable turn to the dismal impression the parting scenes

Iof the 17th and 18th October had left on my mind. To

Miss Baldwin feel greatly obliged for her comforting letter,
and hope she will be able to write me many more equally

consoling ; my brother is going to speak for himself, and if

I Iwould leave a little room for a few words to my nephew,
Imust conclude with saying that am

                        My dear Lady Herschel's

                                 Most obliged and affectionate,
                                                       Car. Herschel.

  IMy dear Nephew, -- thank you for the few lines in the
IP.S., for by them see you were thinking of me when you
Iprocured some indexes to Flamsteed's obs. But will not
Itrouble you to send any ; only wished you to have some

for your own friends, Mr. South, Major Kater, &c, for as
they were not members of the R. Society at the time of

publication, they may perhaps not be possessed of that

necessary Appendix.

  IThe next messenger will take the book Mr. Babbage

wishes for, and want very much to send you some of the

numerous philosophical productions in which this country
Imy nephew Grosekopf says abounds, but am at a loss
I ifon what to fix my choice.
                     wish you would let me know

any of the works of Schelling are known in England? Of
him it is said that his philosophy is entirely new, and

beyond all what goes before, and so profound, that uobody

here can understand him, &c

Believe me yours most affectionately,

                                     Car. Herschel.
Chap. V.]  Settled in Hanover.                   159

           FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

IMy dear Lady Herschel, --  Hanover, Dec. 18, 1822.

At last am enabled to inform you of the safe arrival

of my boxes and trunks, which only came the day before

Iyesterday, and then was obliged to wait till the keys were
Isent by to-day's post, but have the satisfaction to find
Ithat every article is exactly as had packed them with my
Iown hands. For the last three weeks, was despairing

of ever seeing them again, for the vessel had been no

less than three weeks at sea, and then had been obliged to

unload six German miles beyond Bremen for want of water
in the Weser. The country is in general much distressed

for want of water ; our large rivers may be passed on foot,

&c But of these things you are perhaps informed by the

newspapers, and of many other circumstances ; such as the

mice eating the corn as soon as sowed, so that sowing it
three times over was without effect, till the mice were

I Idestroyed by a pest coming among them.

     would give anything if at this moment could see with

my own eyes how you and my dear nephew are ; tell him

that on the day after Christmas (Dec 26th) the messenger
will leave Hanover, and will take the book for Mr. Babbage,

Iand one in two volumes for my nephew ; also two or three

letters of his father's which have found among some papers

I I Iof my brother Alex.

    know not if mentioned it in my last that selected all

his last receipts when he left England, and shall keep them

Iyet a little longer.
   As yet lead but a dull sort of life ; the town is much

Itoo gay for me--plays, concerts, card parties, walking, &c
   cannot take part in any; my cold in my head is still very

bad, and my poor brother is frequently unwell, and for want
160 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [1822.

Iof my trunks could not accept Mrs. BeckedorfFs invitation

to meet Madam Zimniermann, &c, in an evening, on ac

count of not having clean things ; but she is so kind as to

call on me sometimes among all the hurry she is engaged in

at present with the Princess Augusta.

Mr. Gisewell came a few days ago to see me ; he lives a

little way out of town, and poor Mrs. G. keeps her bed, and

is hardly ever well ; their eldest daughter is happily situated

with the Queen of Wiirtemberg, and Mr. Gisewell enjoys a

Ivery lucrative situation.

      wish you could conveniently acquaint my nephew, H.

Griesbach, as soon as possible, that my brother has received

an answer to the letter he sent to Antwerp to the sister

of H. Griesbach, and that in the parcel which the mes

Isenger will bring will be enclosed her letter to Mr. H. G.
      hope you will make Miss Baldwin write me soon a long

account how yourself and all around and with you are, but

pray let it be a favourable one, and remember me to all

(who are so good  as to inquire after me) most  cordially,
and believe me,
                      My dear Lady H.,

                  Your very affectionate

                                       Car. Herschel.

  I I IP.S. --We have had a few days' very severe frost; to

morrow shall unpack my thermometer ; suppose shall

find the difference between a German and an English

Iwinter, though they make the rooms hot enough with their

stoves ; but then am afraid of firing their chimneys, and
we have no water, though the police have demanded that
every housekeeper shall be provided with eight buckets of
water in their kitchen ; besides, the price of fuel is enormous,

owing to the French having destroyed all the forests.
Chap, v.]  Letters. --Life in Hanover.             161

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. "VV. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

My dear Nephew, --  Hanover, Dee. 26, 1822.

IThe parcel am packing up contains so many odds
Iand ends, that think it will be necessary to give you an
Iinventory of them. The most interesting to you, think,
Iwill be the three letters from your dear father (which

found among my brother Alexander's papers), both on ac

count of the handwriting and their containing some accounts

of the busy life of the times in which they were written.

  IOf the philosophical work, will say nothing further than
I Ithat am curious to know if have sent you sense, or
Inonsense, that may know in future how to trust my in
I Iformer ; am only sorry could not send them bound, but

they came too late from Leipsic for that purpose. In the

small cover (with your little man looking through the tele
Iscope) is a shade of your Uncle Alex., which you will be so

good as to give to your mother, who (if remember right)
wished for the same, after it had been packed up, and she

will perhaps be so good as to send the letter to Mr. Henry

Griesbach the first time anybody goes to Windsor.
ISo much for business, and on the other side will talk a
Ilittle of myself. But it is a poor account can give of
Imyself at present, and the worst of it is that cannot hope
Ifor better times.
                    am still unsettled, and cannot get my

Ibooks and papers in any order, for it is always noon before
   am well enough to do anything, and then visitors run
away with the rest of the day till the dinner hour (which is
two o'clock). Two or three evenings in each week are

spoiled by company. And at the heavens is no getting,

Ifor the high roofs of the opposite houses.
   But within my room am determined nothing shall be

Iwanting that can please my eye. Exactly facing me is a

bookcase placed on a bureau, to which will have some
162 Carolitie Lucretia Herschel. [1828.

Iglass doors made, so that can see my books. Opposite
Ithis, on a sofa, am seated, with a sofa-table and my new
Iwriting-desk before me, but what good shall do there the

future must tell.

  IMany more of such like transactions was going to com
Imunicate to you, but am interrupted by the carpenter (our

Andrews), who is come to do some jobs for me, so for this

Ionce you will be released from my nonsense.

   But one thing must yet add, which is that you will

accept my heartfelt wishes for your health, happiness, and
prosperity throughout the coming year and for many more
hereafter, in which my brother and sister are joining most
sincerely, to yourself and Lady Herschel, and believe me,

my dear nephew,

                     Ever your most affectionate aunt,
                                                      Car. Herschel.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

I IMy dearest Nephew, --               Hanover, Feb. 27, 1823.
          take the earliest opportunity have to acquaint you
with having received a letter from Mr. H. Goltermann, accom

panied with a draft for £2 4s. 6d., which is already received

and safely deposited in my writing-desk. But the infor
mation that he had had the pleasure of seeing you in good

health afforded me the greatest satisfaction, and he further

Ipromised me to forward the parcel to you in Downing

Street, which was particularly pleasing to me, as wished

to avoid the sending backward and forward by blundering

Icoachmen.                   received your letter without
   On the 5th of this month

date, but conclude it was written about the same time with

Ithose of your dear mother and cousin Mary, dated the 9th
and fifteenth of January.  delayed answering them (and
Chap, v.]    J.Letter to  F. W. Herschel.                                  163

Imust do so still for the present) because knew that all

mails were detained this side of the sea.

   One   passage  ainndyouurnelxeptteecrteadffe:cte"d.  me   much, it  was gra
tifying   to me
                                                         ..  . speaks  of your

English life, &c . . But now that you have left the scene of

your labours you have the satisfaction of knowing that they

Iare duly appreciated by those you leave behind." But

can hardly hope that those favourable impressions should

Ibe lasting, or rather not be effaced by my hasty departure ;

but believe me would not have gone without at least

Ihaving made the offer of my service for some time longer to

you, my dear nephew, had not felt that it would be in vain

to struggle any longer against age and infirmity, and though

I had no expectation that the change from the pure country
Iair in which had lived the best part of my life, to that of

the closest part of my native city, would be beneficial to my

I Ihealth and happiness, preferred it to remaining where

should have had to bewail my inability of making myself

useful any longer.
I hope you and Lady H. have not suffered by the severity
Iof the weather ; to me it has certainly done no good.
                                                                           am
I Igrown much thinner than was six months ago ; when

Ilook at my hands they put me so in mind of what your dear

father's were, when saw them tremble under my eyes, as

we latterly played at backgammon together. Good night !

Idear nephew, will say the rest to-morrow.
  IBy way of postscript only beg you will give my love

and many thanks to your dear mother and cousin for their

kind letters ; and if the latter will continue from time to

Itime to inform me of all your well-being, shall equally feel
Igratified, for it is no matter from which hand receive the

comfortable  Iinformation.
                  remain, ever your affectionate
                                                      Car.   aunt,

                                                             Herschel.

                                                                       X2
164             Caroline Lucretta Herschel.           [1823.

       FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

My dearest Nephew, --                Hanover, April 14, 1823.

       I hasten to send this sheet, which is but this moment
I Icome to hand, and the post within an hour of leaving Han
over.  begin to fear that shall not hear from you till

you send me an acknowledgment of having received the

certificate, which we are not able to obtain till after the

I I10th of April and 10th of October, but January and July
it is the 5th.  assure you would rather go without the

Imoney than be so long without hearing from you, or have a

line to express your pleasure for the present offered you

and Mr. Babbage by sending the books by the Christmas

messenger, of which I, at this moment, have no information

that they have been delivered. By the Easter messenger

I have sent some metwurst [a Hanoverian delicacy], which
I hope you and your dear mother will find good, but when

they are once cut they must be eaten soon, else they are

dry and lose all their flavour.

The Germans are very busy about the fame of your dear

father; there does not pass a month but something

appears in print, and Dr. Groskopf saw in den gelehrten

Zeitungen that Professor Pfaff had translated all your dear

Ifather's papers from the Phil. Trans, into German, and
which will be published in Dresden.  wish he had left it

Ifor some good astronomer to do the same. Pray let me

know how you and your dear mother are in health ; am

not well, but have a severe cold at present, but am always

and still your affectionate aunt,

                                     Car. Herschel.

   The following letter from the Princess Sophia of
Gloucester is a pleasing memorial of the kindness and
Chap, v.]       Letter to Miss HerscJiel.      165

amiability of which Miss Herschel experienced so many

proofs while she lived at Slough :--

      THE PRINCESS SOPHIA MATILDA TO MISS HERSCHEL.

   My dear Miss Herschel, --
          Your obliging attention in sending the Astronomical

IAlmanack to me am very sensible of, and at the same time

Ithat return my best thanks for this flattering mark of your

I Irecollection, must express my regret that am not pos
Isessed of more knowledge and leisure, that might profit

sufficiently by your kindness in endeavouring to instruct

Ime. was very happy to learn that you had reached your
Inative land in safety, and sincerely form every wish that
Iyour health may be long preserved to you !

   May request you to remember me kindly to Mr. and

Ito Miss Beckedorff, and to be assured yourself of the true

esteem and regard with which remain, my dear Miss
Herschel,

                            Yours very faithfully,
                                                     Sophia Matilda.

   London, June 16, 1823.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

                                                                  Hanover, June 24, 1823.

   My dearest Nephew, --

      I had intended to write you a long and very learned
Iepistle, but am just now informed that the messenger
Iwill leave Hanover within a very few hours, and must
Icontent myself with giving you the outlines of what would

I Ihave said.   have mentioned in a former letter to your
       believe

mother that a Professor Pfaff has announced his intention

of giving a translation of your father's papers. It runs in
166 Caroline Litcretia Herschel.                         [1823.

my head that this professor is but a Jackanapes,* who will

Ispoil the broth* and wished he would not meddle with
Iwhat he cannot understand. But thought it but right to

inform you of what is come to my knowledge, particularly

as 1 was told it had been announced again that the transla
                                                         explanations. Dr.
tion would appear  w" iAthst.coJarrhercbtiuocnhs"  and
Luthmer (in the                                     for  this year you may

see a paper by this gentleman) told me since there were two

ifprofessors of that name (brothers), one an astrologer, and

it was the latter he would make nonsense of it.

Miss Baldwin mentioned you were at Cambridge on

Ithe business of having your father's papers printed.

   think it could not be amiss if something of your

intention could be mentioned in the Edinburgh Quarterly

Review, which appears here at Hanover, and of course

throughout Germany, that it may be known that your

Ifather's labours are in yours and of course in the most able
hands to make remarks on them.                     only wish to draw your

I Iattention this way, but say nothing.                  was so
      have mentioned it over and over again that

unlucky as to lose the paper on my journey you entrusted
Ifto my care for Prof. Gauss.
                                you have another copy to

spare give it to Mr. Golterman for the return of the mes

Isenger; for he has heard of your good intention, and
laments my negligence ;  shall be introduced to him

shortly, when he comes through Hanover again, where he

passed through about a fortnight ago on a journey of obser

vation, tending to establish some new discovery of his own,

Iof which we are soon to know more. The theodolite has

something to do with it; so much snapt up in a company

Iof learned ladies who, within these last two months, have

taken me into their circle. But am imitating Robinson

   * These words hnd apparently to be sought for in the dictionary, as they
are inserted in pencil in blank spaces left for the purpose.
chap, v.]  J.Letter to  F. IV. Hcrschel.                167

Crusoe, who kept up his consequence by keeping out of

sight as much as possible when he acted the governor,
I Iand when they want to know anything of me, say can
Inot tell ! . . . .
                     did nothing for my brother but what a
Iwell-trained puppy dog would have done, that is to say,
did what he commanded me.
  I Isend you a small publication which think must inte
Irest you, but if it contains anything which is new to you
I Icannot tell.
           shall, however, obtain what very much

long for, viz., to see your handwriting, for surely you will

Iwrite me a line of thanks ?
      am in general too unwell to sit much at the writing-

table, and have not been able to do anything which could

be of use to you. The letters which you will receive under

Icover to you hope you will do me the favour to cause them
Ito be safely delivered. They are sealed already, else should
Ihave added a P.S. to your dear mother of the following,

viz., that was agreeably surprised by a letter this morn

ing from the Princessin Sophia of Gloucester, and that my

brother's family are all well at present ; my brother in par

ticular makes work for the tailor to let out his waistcoats,

and they are happy to have their eldest daughter for a fort

night with them on a visit; she is a truly interesting little deli

cate creature just turned of forty, and has one daughter fit to

be married, two sons preparing for the university, and the

youngest weaned a month ago ; she is to me a wonder when

I look at her, she reads English fluently, French she was

used to speak like her mother tongue from her infancy.

  I am interrupted, and must seal up the packet.

        IAnd remain, dear nephew,

           Your most faithful and affectionate aunt,

                           Car. Herschel.
168 Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.                [1823.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

My dearest Nephew, --                Hanover, July 14, 1823.

As a proof of my being still among the number of

the living, you will perhaps not dislike to see my own hand

Iwriting added to that of the three gentlemen who signed my

certificate. But am at a loss for a subject which should

I *I ****be interesting to you, because, hearing so seldom from you,
  Ibegin to fear my correspondence may turn out to be

troublesome. But still long to hear a little oftener that

Iyou and your dear mother are well ; for since April eleventh

(date of Lady EL's letter) have had no assurance of the
same on which could depend.
I I Iwish often that could see what you were doing, that

Imight give you a caution (if necessary) not to overwork
yourself like your dear father did.  long to hear that the

forty-foot instrument is safely got down ; your father, and

Uncle A. too, have had many hair-breadth escapes from

being crushed by the taking in and out of the mirror ; but

God preserve you, my dear nephew, says

                Your most affectionate Aunt,

                                                       Car. Herschel.
   P.S. --My brother and family join me in many compli

Iments to you and your dear mother. They are all well ;
I Iam the only one who is complaining, but think have a
Iright to that preference, for am the oldest.

FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

IDear Aunt, --         Downing Steeet, August 1, 1823.

have been long threatening to send you a long

letter, but have always been prevented by circumstances
J.Chap, v.] Letter froni  F. W. Herschel.  169

and want of leisure from executing my intention. The

Itruth is, have been so much occupied with astronomy of
Ilate, that have had little time for anything else--the

reduction of these double stars, and the necessity it has put
me under of looking over the journals, reviews, &c, for
information on what has already been done, and in many

Icases of re-casting up my father's measures, swallows up a

great deal of time and labour. But have the satisfaction

of being able to state that our results in most instances

confirm and establish my father's views in a remarkable

manner. These inquiries have taken me off the republica

I Ition of his printed papers for the present.
       think shall be adding more to his fame by pursuing

and verifying his observations than by reprinting them.

IBut have by no means abandoned the idea. Meanwhile
I am not sorry to hear they are about to be translated into

German. There is a Mr. Pfaff, a respectable mathema

I Iftician, and hope it is he who undertakes the work.
Iyou can learn more particulars, pray send them to me.

hope this season to commence a series of observations with
the twenty-foot reflector, which is now in fine order. The

Iforty-foot is no longer capable of being used, but shall

suffer it to stand as a monument.

I am much obliged to you for the book on temperaments

Iyou were so kind as to send me, which seems interesting,

but have not had time to read it through
IP.S.--Your books on animal magnetism, and that for
Babbage, arrived safe     wish you would procure

and send me Pfaff's translation of my father's papers as

soon as published. Write as often     as you can. Your
I Iletters are very interesting.      were a better corre
                          wish
Ispondent, but my time is so occupied,  know not where to

turn.
170 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                            [1823.

   P.P.S.-- Babbage has had ^1,500 granted him by Go

vernment to enable him to execute his engine, which is very

curious. A report is strongly current of Captain Parry's
successful arrival at Valparaiso ; it comes in a very probable

form.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W". HERSCHEL.

IMy dearest Nephew, --  Hanovbb, August 11, 1823.

          thank you most heartily for your kind care and

punctuality in sending my remittance, and am only sorry to
Itrouble you so often;
                        might have acknowledged the
Ireceipt thereof by the last post, but wished first to enable

myself to give the following information. Johann Wilhelm
Pfaff, professor, in Erlangen, is the same who intends to

Itranslate your father's papers, but those only which he can

get a copy of. The Philosophical Transactions, am told,

are not within his reach. You may depend on my sending you

Iwhatever may come out as soon as it makes its appearance.
      can easily imagine how little time you can have to spare

for writing to me when once you have entered on that mass

of your father's observations contained in his journals, &c

.... I think the temporary index (such as it is) will in

Imany instances be of service to you, but wish to point out

here that about the year 1800 there was a change made in

the titles of some of the books. The first volume of mis
cellaneous observations was then called Journal No. 10, &c,
.... so if the index directs you to January 24th, 1797 M.
I(for M. read J.)  think a memorandum of this will be
Ifound in the cover or beginning of the index, but am not

certain.

   You have truly gratified me by sending the inscription of
the monument,* for such subjects only are capable of inte

          * To her brother, in Upton Church, near Slough.
Chap, v.]             Astronomical.              171

Iresting my waking thoughts and nightly dreams.  was

going to give you an idea of what they are ; but why should
I communicate grief?
IThe paper for Gauss is gone to Gottingen.
                                                 have

directed it to Professor Harding, who is the next to Gauss
Iin the astronomical department, as Gauss is not yet returned
from his journey of measurements.    made a few extracts
from the paper * by way of having something to be delighted

with, but am glad such a thing was not invented fifty years

ago, for then my existence would have been of no use at all

at all.

  I am amusing myself with having the seven-foot mounted

Iby Hohenbaum, though have not even a prospect of a

window for a whole constellation, but it shall stand in my
room and be my monument--as the forty-foot is yours.

When Hohenbaum comes for a trifling direction, we gene

rally do not separate till dinner, or some other interruption

puts a stop to our conversation ; for this man is never tired

when speaking of your father's inventful imaginations and

the readiness with which eve^hing was executed.

  I have not above six hours' tolerable ease out of the
Itwenty-four, and not one hour's sleep, and yet wish to
Ilive a little longer, that might make you a more correct

catalogue of the 2,500 nebuhe, which is not even begun, but

Ihope to be able to make it my next winter's amusement.
     was much pleased with the partial success of Mr. Bab-

bage in having something granted towards going on with

his grand ideas.

With many compliments and best wishes, &c,

                  Your most affectionate aunt,

                                     Car. Herschel.

   * The paper referred to is probalily one on "The* Aberrations of Compound
Lenses and Object Glasses," read at the Royal Society on the 22nd March, 1821.
172 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                    [1824.

         FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                      Catania (Sicily), July 2, 1824.
         wrote to you from Slough little
I IDear Aunt, --
      The last time

Iexpected that my next would be dated from the foot of

Etna -- but mean this to be the farthest point of my

wanderings, and from hence to turn my steps northwards.

I am not without some hopes that my time will so far serve
Ias to enable me to pay you a visit at Hanover, as long

very much to see you among your and my Hanoverian

friends  My mother will have told you of my ar

Irangements, -- of the alteration which my plans of life have

undergone (and for which see eveiy day more reason to be

Ithankful), and of my present excursion, so that the date of

this will not surprise you. To-morrow hope to see the
sun set from the top of Etna, and will keep this open to give

you an account of my excursion there. Meanwhile let me

congratulate you on the good accounts my mother gives me
of your present state of health and spirits, the knowledge

of which has enabled me to give real pleasure to many who,

Iwhen they heard was related to you, enquired with the
Igreatest interest respecting you. Among the rest may
mention M. Arago, of the Observatory at Paris, and M.

Fourrier, the secretary of the Institute, who has just been

I Ireading the Eloge of my dear father at a meeting of that

body, in which am sure (from the associations had with

him, and the written communications that passed between us

on the subject) your own name will stand associated with his

Iin a manner that cannot fail to be gratifying to you. have
Inot (of course, as quitted Paris before it was read, or even

written) seen but the man of the right sort, and will
endeavour to procure copies of for you and my uncle.
         I it,
                                  is

                          I it

                                                    it

                                                                            ?)

                                          I
Indeed, at Paris find (as where do not find  universal

justice rendered to my father's merits, and a degree of
Chap, v.] Her Nephew on the Continent.  1 73

admiration excited by the mention of his name that cannot

Ifail to be gratifying to me, as his son. In fact, find myself
Ireceived wherever go by all men of science, for his sake,
Iwith open arms, and find introductions perfectly unneces
Isary. At Turin sent up my card to Prof. Plana, of the

Observatory, one of the most eminent mathematicians of the

Iage, who received me like a brother, and made my stay at

Turin, which prolonged a week for the sake of his society,

very pleasant. He married a niece of Lagrange (not of
                                  and his wife were full of enquiries
Lalande),  "ancdelebbortahtehde  sister," (for everybody seems to think
about my

me your brother, instead of nephew), and made me tell

them a thousand particulars about you. The same recep

I Ition, but, if possible, still more friendly, .and the same

curiosity (and, may add, the same mistake) met with at

Modena, from Professor Amici, an artist and a man of

science of the first eminence. He is the only man who has,

Isince my father, bestowed great pains on the construction of

specula, and do assure you that his ten-foot telescopes

with twelve-inch mirrors are of very extraordinary perfection.

IAmong other of your enquiring friends should not omit
Ithe Abbe Piazzi, whom found ill in bed at Palermo, and
Iwho is a fine respectable old man, though am afraid not

much longer for this world. He remembered you person

ally, having himself visited Slough.

  INaples, Aug. 20th, 1824. -- take the first moment of
Ileisure to proceed with this.
                                 made the ascent of Etna

without particular difficulty, though with excessive fatigue.

The ascent from Catania is through the village of iNicolosi,

about ten miles from Catania, almost every step of which

is covered with the tremendous stream of lava which, in

I1669, burst from the flanks of the mountain, near Nicolosi,

and overwhelmed the city. Here found a M. Gemellaro,

who was so good as to make corresponding observations of
174 Caroline Lucretia HerscJieL                     [182*.

Ithe barometer and thermometer during my absence, while

his brother observed below at Catania, and carried up my

mountain barometer and other instruments to the summit.

From Nicolosi the ascent becomes rugged and laborious,
first through a broad belt of fine oak forest, which encircles

the mountain like a girdle about its middle, and affords some

beautiful romantic scenery --when this is passed we soon

reach the limits of vegetation, and a long desolate scorched

Islope, knee-deep in ashes, extends for about five miles to a
little  hut, where     passed the  inn.ig--htan(da  glorious starlight one)
with    the barometer   at 21'307                   next morning mounted

the crater by a desperate scramble up a cone of lava and

ashes, about 1,000 feet high. The sunrise from this altitude,

and the view of Sicily and Calabria, which is gradually dis

Iclosed, is easier conceived than described. On the highest

point of the crater was enveloped in suffocating sulphurous

vapours, and was glad enough to make my observation (bar.

I21'400) and get down. By this the altitude appears to be
between 10 and 11,000 feet.        reached Catania the same

night, almost dead with the morning's scramble and the

dreadful descent of near thirty miles, where the mules

(which can be used for a considerable part of the way) could

scarce keep their feet.

   Florence, Aug. 16t/<, 1824. -- In the hurry and bustle of

travelling one is obliged to write by snatches when one can.
I I· · ' ·
        hope to hear from you at all events when reach
I IEngland if should not see you first, of which begin now

to have serious doubts, having been so terribly retarded in

my Sicilian journey, and at Naples, on my return, by the

illness of a friend.   Your affectionate nephew,

                                  J. F. W. Herschel.

 IP.S.--Have you heard how M. Pfaff's translation pro

ceeds ? wrote to him from Cattagione, in Sicily.
Chap, v.]  Her Nephew's Travels.              175

My dear Aunt,--  *  MBincH, Sept. 17, 1824.
        **
                     **

I had originally intended to have gone to Switzerland

from Inspruck, or from this place, having a great desire to

visit the north of Switzerland, and to make certain observa-

tions among the Alps, but my wish to see you once more, to

Iassure myself and to be able to report to my mother how

find you--to pay my uncle Dietrich a visit --and, though
last, not least, to see my father's birth-place --these con

siderations outweigh the attractions of Switzerland, and,

although the increase this detour will make in the length

of my journey homewards is so considerable as to limit my

Istay in Hanover to two or three days at the utmost, shall

at least have had the satisfaction of not neglecting an oppor

I Itunity which may never occur again.
   The time when hope to arrive cannot precisely fix, as
it will depend on circumstances which may occur in my

route, having so arranged as to take in a variety of objects

Iinteresting in various ways, thus : -- shall go somewhat out
Iof my way to visit Professor Pfaff, at Erlangen, and hope

also to find Mr. Encke at Seeberg, Mr. Lindenau at Gotha,

IMessrs. Gauss and Harding at Gottingen, &c Moreover,

Ihope there will not take place a resurrection among the

bones in the cave at Bayreuth before get there. These

things necessarily interrupt post haste, besides which there

are always delays in passing frontiers, and accidents happen

ing to wheels, springs, screws, &c Allowing for these, how
Iever, think it cannot be less than a fortnight, nor more
Ithan three weeks from the date of this when
                                              shall

Ihave the happiness of once more shaking you by the

hand, and need not say what satisfaction it will give me to

find yourself and my uncle, Mrs. Herschel and their family

in good health, as well as our good friends the Beckedorffs,
176 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.                   11824-

Detmerings and Haussmann, with whom it will be a great

Ipleasure to me to renew my acquaintance. You have heard,
   daresay, through my mother, of our poor friend, Miss

Deluc's death. Mrs. Beckedorff will have been much

grieved at it.                                     find

  I Ihope you have not forgotten your English, as
Imyself not quite so fluent in this language as expected.
IIn fact, since leaving Italy, have so begarbled my German

with Italian that it is unintelligible both to myself and to
everyone that hears it; and what is very perverse, that

Ithough when in Italy could hardly talk Italian fit to be
I Iheard, can now talk nothing else, and whenever want a
IGerman word, pop comes the Italian one in its place.

made the waiter to-day stare (he being a Frenchman) by

Icalling to him, "Wollen Sie avere la bonta den acete zu

apportaren ! " But this, hope, will soon wear off.
             #* #* *

                    I remain, dear aunt,

                       Your affectionate nephew,

                                      J. F. W. H.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --  Hanover, Sept. 25, 1824.

I hardly know how to thank you sufficiently for your

Ivaluable letters, especially for the one dated the 17th of this

month, as am now at last assured that my eyes shall once
more behold the continuation of your dear father. For the

remaining days of my life can only by a few hours' conver

sation with you be made tolerable, by affording me your

direction how to finish a general catalogue of the 2,500
nebulae, &c, which would have otherwise caused us both a

Itedious and vexatious correspondence in the future.
      anxiously forbore to express my wishes for seeing you,
Chap, v.]  Visit from her Nephew.                177

for fear it might have had any influence on th . direction of

Iyour intended tour. But now all will be well, and shall

only say that we are counting the days and hours until we
shall have the happiness of seeing you, and you will, on
entering Hanover, have only to direct your postilion to the
Markt Strasse, No. 453, where the arms of my brother and
sister, as well as mine, are longing to receive you, and till
then

               Believe me, my dearest nephew,
                        Your faithful and affectionate aunt,

                                                       Car. Herschel.

  I IP.S. -- beg my respects to . . Blumenbach, and shall

ever remember with many thanks the visit with which he

honoured me when last at Hanover.

           FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dear Lady Herschel, --             Hanover, Oct. 14, 1824.

IMy dear nephew has now been gone a week, and fol

Ilow him in idea every inch he is moving farther from us, and
think he must now be near the water.  am at this moment

in the greatest panic imaginable, for we have had all the

Iweek much rain, and now it blows a perfect hurricane.

Ishall not send this till have heard from you that the dear
Itraveller is safely at home, for it would be cruel to augment

your anxiety, which know you are feeling till you see him

again.
   [Here follows a long history of the younger members of

the Griesbach family, with details of the events of seventy

years before.]

 .... I have not yet done, my dear Lady Herschel, and

Ishall not be easy till have given some little account of my

brother's [Dietrich's] family, merely for yours and my dear
178 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [1824.

Inephew's gratification ; for, from his kind inquiries if

wanted anything ? if he could do nothing for me ? it

Iseemed as if he thought he could not do enough for us.

My answer was nothing ! nothing ! and this could say with

Itruth, as at my age and situation (which is truly respectable)
   should not know what to do with more without lavishing

it on others, where it would only create habits of luxury
and extravagance. The time of our dear nephew's being

Ihere was too short for much confidential conversation, else
   wished to have made him better acquainted with mine
and my brother Dietrich's sentiments concerning the noble

Ibequest of our lamented brother, of which Dietrich had not

the most distant hope or expectation (for believe they never
had any conversation on the subject), as 1 am sure his way
of thinking is similar to mine, that brothers and sisters

(such as we were), each beginning the world with nothing
but health and abilities for getting our bread, ought to feel

shame at taking from the other if he should by uncommon

Iexertion and perseverance have raised himself to affluence.

According to this notion refused my dear brother's pro

posal (at the time he resolved to enter the married state) of
making me independent, and desired him to ask the king

Ifor a small salary to enable me to continue his assistant.

£50 were granted to me, with which was resolved to live

Iwithout the assistance of my brother ; but when nine quar

ters were left unpaid was obliged to apply to him, as he

had charged me not to go to anyone else. In 1803, you

and my brother insisted on my having £10 quarterly added

Ito my income, which certainly should not have accepted
Iif had not been in a panic for my friends at Hanover,

which had just then been taken by the French.
Chap, v.]  Life in Hanover.                          179

           FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

Dearest Nephew, --  Hanover, Nov. 1, 1824.

         Your welcome letter, dated Slough, Oct. 22nd, had

hot only the most beneficial effect on my spirits, but gave
Ithe greatest pleasure to the whole family, for
                                                     find

Grosekopf had been under great apprehension for your

safety from the many reported accidents among the ship

ping on the English coasts. Count Mimster, it is said, lies
dangerously ill in consequence of the fright he suffered on

his passage (his lady and his children were with him), and
Grosekopf imagined he must have left Calais at the same

Itime with you. But, thank God, all is well ! All meet

with lament your leaving us so soon. Gauss has been here,

and they say he was quite inconsolable at having missed

Iyou. Hauptmann Muller was charged with compliments,

which he intends to deliver himself if will give him leave.

To be sure ! and Olbers, whom Dr. Miirz saw in Bremen,

was sorry not to have seen you, as you had been so near.

The Duke of Cambridge, whom Dietrich met in the street,

Iasked about you, but we could not trace you farther than
Antwerp.   believe half Hanover would have been gratified
Iif you could have made a longer stay with us. Dr.

Grosekopf will one day come to England am afraid, and

talk you deaf; he is, however, a very good sort of man,

and desires me to tell you that if you wanted any books

you might command him, he would send you anything you

wanted.

What gives me the most pleasure in reading over your

letter, is your telling me that your dear mother is not in the

least altered In her looks, and that she has been so con

siderate as to give me in her own handwriting the assurance

                             u2
180 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.           [1824.

Ithat you are extremely well. That may yet often hear the

same, wishes your most affectionate aunt,

                                                      Car. Herschel.

P.S.-- [To Lady Herschel]                 ·.

My knowing so well to what noble purposes an experimental

philosopher may use his fortune, it would make me very un

Ihappy if my dear nephew was cramped in his. And if
Icould do any good by relinquishing my annuity would

leave Hanover and live on my pension in the country

most willingly, and am only sorry that 1 have no other

Imeans of showing the care and affection have for my
Idear nephew. But beg no other notice may be taken
Iof all have written than often --when my nephew or your
Iself cannot write -- to inform me by the hand of Miss

B of all your joys and sorrows, that may, though at

this distance, sympathise with the same.
I IIf my nephew cannot be easily supplied with the Berliner
Jahrbuch,  beg he will let me know, for   have got

them by me, and can send them by the messenger in

January.

FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Dear Aunt, --              London, Decembrr, 1824.

My mother and self received your welcome letter,

Iand so far from finding, as you seem to fear, the details you

enter into tedious, assure you we found them highly in

teresting. The sacrifices you have individually made for

your family are above all praise. It would ill become me,
who am a rich man (I mean in that sense only in which any

man can truly be called rich, --having enough to satisfy all
my moderate and rational wants), to deprive you of any, the
<!hap. v.]                Life in Hanover.    181

smallest part of your income. On the contrary, it would
rather be my duty, were it insufficient, to add to it, but the

Iaccount you give of your situation, corroborated as it is by

what have myself seen of sets at rest all apprehensions

*****on that score.
              a

                                  it,
I II  hope the Catalogue of Nebulae goes on as you wish.

shall have little time now for astronomical observations,

being become              resident in London in consequence of

taking on myself the duties of Secretary to the Royal

Society.

      have sent the lenses you wished for, and also two prints

of the king and queen of the Sandwich Islands, which   I

would be much obliged to you you would transmit to
                                       if

Prof. Blumenbach, with my compliments. They are the

best that have appeared, and are considered striking

liknesses.

 *****MISS HERSCHEL TO

My dearest Nephew, --
                          it J.        F. W. HERSCHEL.
                                                Hanover, Jan. U, 1825.
                            I
am now writing out the Catalogue of Nebulae, and am at
I

             a

        I
                      is
zone 30°, and hope to finish for the Easter messenger;

but my health so wretched that often am obliged to lay

by for day or two. Dr. Grosekopf desires his compli

ments, and am to tell you that when next you come to

Hanover again he can not only procure you     sight of
                                              a

                                                     I
Leibnitz's MS., but leave to take some home with you.

am in quest of good print of Leibnitz for you, and hopea
soon to hear of one, which shall accompany Dr. Franklin's,

which Dietrich lately found among his music.
182 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.              [1825.

Graf Bapfstein brought me lately the Moniteur of

December, containing the history of your dear father's life,

as read in June, etc, at full length. It is the only copy of

Ithe Court paper coming here at Hanover to the French

Ambassador, and was obliged to return it to the same ;

but Grosekopf has promised to procure these copies from

Paris, that we may all have one. Miss Beckedorf read it to

me by way of translation, and we both cried over it, and

could not withhold a tear of gratitude to the author for

having so feelingly adhered to truth in the details of your

dear father's discoveries, etc

  IBut if have understood Miss B.'s translation right
I could point out three instances where too great a stress

is laid on the assistance of others, which withdraws the

attention too much from the difficulties your father had

to surmount.

(1.) The favours of monarchs ought to have been men

tioned, but once would have been enough.

   (2 & 3.) Of Alexander and me can only be said that we
were but tools, and did as well as we could ; but your father

was obliged first to turn us into those tools with which we

Icould work for him ; but if too much is said in one place

let it pass ; have, perhaps, deserved it in another by perse

verance and exertions beyond female strength ! Well

done !

With compliments to all friends, particularly Mr. and

Mrs. Babbage,  I remain, my dearest nephew,

               Yours most affectionately,

               Car. Herschel.

   Poor Sir William Watson ! [whose death had lately been
announced to her.]
Chap, v.]  Life in Hanover.                           183

           MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                                                                  Hanover, March 7, 1825.

  IThe birthday of my dear nephew ! who wish may enjoy
Iin health and prosperity many returns of this day. will

Idrink your health, and on the 16th of this month you may

return the compliment, for then shall have completed my

Iseventy-fifth year.

      received the parcel, not till the last day of February,

Iwhich contained your letter of December 4th, with the prints

of the King and Queen, which delivered to the Regierungs-

rath B     ;, to forward to his father at Gottingen.

   The first part of your letter is filled with expressions of

Ithe most feeling kindness towards me, and will pass them
Iover without attempting to describe what felt on reading

the same, and merely for yours and your dear mother's

Isatisfaction will answer as in the way of business all you
Iwished to know. November 22nd received the £50 Lady
IH. paid over for me to Mr. Goltermann, for which

returned the day after (23rd) the formal receipt in a letter
Ito your mother, and hope it may not have been lost (for
.... Igenerally write what conies uppermost)
                                                      am ready

with the Catalogue of Nebulte, and have only to write, noi

I Ia Preface, for shall write what have to say at the end

.... I wish, in case you were not on the spot to receive
the box from Mr. Goltermann yourself, you would before
you left town beg Mr. G. to keep it till you called for it

I Iyourself; for must confess that from the day let the

eight manuscript books and catalogue of Nebula, and cata

I Ilogue of stars drawn out of the eight books of sweeps, go

out of my hands, shall have no peace till know they are

I Isafe in your own, where they ought to be. If you can think

of anything else can send you, beg you will let me know,

for a large parcel is no more trouble than a lesser one to
184 Caroline Lucrelia HerscJiel.      [1825.

I Iput up. But shall write again when have packed up
Ithe box, and if you still wish for relics of your dear father's

hand-writing, have a great mind to part with his pocket-
book (to you only), which he used before we left Bath.
There are only a few pencil memoranda, but they show
that music did not only occupy his thoughts, but that timber
for the erection of the thirty-foot telescope of which the
casting of the mirror was pretty far advanced was thought

of.

  IBut now must say a few words to your dear mother,
Ibut wish soon to hear that you have received this, and
I Ialso a letter sent from here on the 14th January. hope

it is not lost.

  I am not very well pleased with my English, but have no
I Itime to write what have to say over again, but this
Ihope you will be able to understand --that

                                         am

                        Ever your most affectionate aunt,
                                                      Car. Herschel.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dear Lady Herschel, --  Hanover, March 8, 1825.

I received your letter of the 4th December, and it
Irelieved me of much anxiety felt from a fear that the

Isubject of my long letter of November 8th might have

injured me in your or my nephew's opinion, and had

nothing to console me in this uncertainty, but a line from

IMr. Goltermann that he had seen you in good health and

received £50 from you, which received the 22nd Novem

Iber here at Hanover, and sent my thanks and the usual

receipt the next day. But still remained in uncertainty,
till by a letter from Miss JB. of 15th December, you kindly
Chap, v.]      Life in Hanover.  185

sent me your thanks for the veiy letters which caused me

such fears.

But it grieves me you should yourself take the trouble of

writing to me ; the least kind expression from you dictated

Ito Miss B. is sufficient to make me happy for many days
after.     hope she will not be taken from you again for a

long time, for she is the most cheerful companion in health

Iand consoling one in sickness you could have about you.

     was sorry to hear by a letter from Mr. H. Griesbach to

Imy brother that you had had another attack of the gout,
but God grant  may hear soon it may have been of

short duration. Daily we come to hear of the departure of
a friend or some one we know, but at our time of life it

cannot be otherwise, for many of those we knew were older

than ourselves, and it is painful to see when we at last are

left to stand (or lie) alone, which is often the case with a

single person ; for no attention can equal or be more

cheering than what comes from the heart of an affectionate

child. But no more of this ; if we must grieve, there is the

Icomfort we shall not grieve much longer.
   The death of my eldest nephew lament sincerely, for he

was deserving to have enjoyed the prosperity of his children

Isome years longer, but by a letter had from Miss G.

I was gratified to know that they had found (for the present)

so noble a support from the King and from the excellent

Countess of Harcourt. As to the exit of poor F. Griesbach,

it gave me more joy than pain ; for nothing but the grave

could relieve him from wretchedness ; and nothing but that

would rouse his posterity to a sense of their duty, which is

Ito work for an honest livelihood ; even the youngest is old

enough to do so, and hope to hear that they may awake

from their dreams of commissions in the army and midship
men in the navy. The lot of the children of a poor

musician and descendants of a menial servant (even to a king)
186 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                    [1825.

is not to look too high, but trust to his own good behaviour

and serving faithfully those who can employ them ; then they

will not want encouragement.

  I IThis is the way compose myself, for help cannot
Ianybody any longer, and it hurts me, for am too feeble to
think much of these kind of things. The 4th April goes

Ithe messenger, and my nephew will receive my handy
works and a few little publications.    have yet some publi

cations to make which will take me some time, to go with

Ithe catalogue : and then shall have nothing to put me in
Imind of the hours spent with my dear brother at the
Itelescopes, and for that reason keep the five printed

Ivols, of my brother's papers, and read them over once more

before send them to my nephew, and besides, it would

be too much at once, for books are heavy.

  IFarewell, my dear Lady H., and remember me to Miss B.,

who, hope, will be good to me and write often to

                                        Your affectionate sister,

                                        Car. Herschel.

   P.S. --Mr. H       is released from his plague, for his

wife is dead.

        MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

IMy dear Nephew, --                     Hanoveu, March 27, 1825.

        hope the MS. Catalogue of Nebulae and that of the

stars, which have been observed in the series of sweeps

along with the eight volumes from which they have been

drawn out, will not unfrequently be of use to you.

   The   gauges were  "bRroeuggishtter  immediately after observations
into a  book called                       of Star Gauges," which was
Chap, v.]  Catalogue of Nebula.            187

kept with the " Register of Sweeps." Observations and

remarks on various subjects will often be found as memo

randums, made during or at the end of a sweep, to which

the general index may serve as a direction --as for instance
under the head of zodiacal lights --the index points out twelve

different sweeps in which they were observed.
   N.B. -- Let it be remembered that the memorandums in

the transcript of the sweeps between ||     1| are mine, and

must be confided in accordingly.           I have put a list
   At the end of the Catalogue of Nebulae

of memorandums to the catalogue of omitted stars, and

index to Flamsteed's Observations, contained in his second

vol. They are properly not all to be called errata, but

mem. of errors, which could only be solved by later obser
vations, &c, &c

  All your father's papers from the Phil. Trans., which are

Ibound in five volumes, and in which have carried all
I Icorrections (in the Catalogues of Nebulae) could find,
must keep a little longer, but they shall come safe to your
hands--along with Bode's and Wollaston's catalogues, when
                                           of reading--for
my eyes have robbed me of the pleasure

Iwhich misfortune am in daily fear.
                   I am, dear nephew,

           Yours affectionately,

                                           C. Herschel.
188 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                  [1825.

r FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Dear Aunt, --                                 April 18, 1825.

I received this afternoon your most valuable packet
Icontaining your labours of the last year, which shall prize,
Iand more than prize -- shall use myself, and make useful to

others. A week ago had the twenty-foot directed on the

nebula? in Virgo, and determined afresh the right ascensions

and polar distances of thirty-six of them. These curious
Iobjects (having

now take into
Ithem.       now  nearly finished the double  stars) shall
             my                               else can see
                  especial charge --nobody

             hope very soon (in a fortnight or three weeks) to
be able to transmit to you and to MM. Gauss and Harding

our work (Mr. South's and my own) on the double stars, in
which you will find some of my father's most interesting
Itdiscoveries placed beyond the reach of doubt.
                                                 will con

tain measures of the position and distance of 380 double

stars. But Mr. South, who is an industrious astronomer

(almost as much so as yourself), has just sent me complete
and accurate measures of 279 more, making in all 659.

Among these we have now verified not less than seventeen

connected in binary systems in the way pointed out by my

father, and twenty-eight at least in which no doubt of a

material change having taken place can exist. M. Struve,

at Dorpat, and M. Amici, in Italy, have also taken up

the subject of double stars, and are prosecuting it with

Ivigour.
       am particularly obliged to you for my father's letters

and pocket-book --they are to me a real treasure. The

Istyle of the Ehge in the Moniteur is very inferior to what

expected from Fourier ; but on the whole it contains nothing

Imaterially untrue. The publications enclosed were very
acceptable.  wish my uncle had not confined himself to a
Chap, v.]  Life in Hanover.                                 189

mere catalogue of insects, but had told us a little of their
habits. Of Leibnitz's MSS. more hereafter

   The mettwursts * are excellent. The packets to my mother

and Mary shall be sent
                                  Your affectionate nephew,
                                                  3. F. W. Herschel.

           MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

IMy dear Nephew, --                   Hanover, May 3, 1825.

           must content myself with only writing a few lines

by way of thanking you for your very interesting letter,

Iwhich has taken all the care from my mind which felt for

Ithe fate of the MS.             received a very kind letter
   Before the box left Hanover,

I Ifrom Hofrath Blumenbach, in which was one enclosed to

you ; hope it is come to hand, though am still in doubt

Iabout your direction, and for that reason kept the letter

near a fortnight before parted with it.

IYou give me hope of receiving some of your and Mr.
South's works for Gauss and Harding.  know no way of

sending them than through Mr. Goltermann by the quarterly

messenger, and that it will be well for you to make some

inquiry beforehand about the time he is likely to leave

England.

The Duke of Cambridge will, within a month, be in

England ; perhaps you will meet with him ; he is a great

admirer of you. Last Saturday, between the acts of the
I Iconcert, he asked me many questions about you.
                                                            wish
Ihad had your letter two days sooner, should then have
Iknown better how to answer him. He enquired if you were
much engaged with astronomy ?    said you were a deep

* Mettwurst is a meat sausage for which Hanover is famous.
190 Caroline Lucrelia Herschel.                  [1825.

....mathematician, which embraced all, &c,       then he

asked if you studied chemistry ? answer, very much ! you

had built yourself a laboratorium at Slough, had a house

in town for three years, was secretary of the Royal Society,
would probably, in the vacation, be at Slough, &c, &c, and

in return he told me that he heard from everybody you were

Ia very learned philosopher ; and if tell you that the Duke
Iof Cambridge is the favourite of all who know him, think
I have made you acquainted with one another, t

My brother intends soon to write a few words about

insects himself, which is almost the only object with which
Ithe amuses himself.
                      is well he does not see the word
Iamuses, for suppose it should be sublime study, for when

ever he catches a fly with a leg more than usual, he says it

Iis as good as catching a comet ! Do you think so ?
   Perhaps may have soon an opportunity of sending by
I IM" Fr.orlQesuuinntga.i"n
a German translation of Baron Fourier's

   must examine first if have the whole or
Inot ; it does not seem bad, but as do not understand
I IFrench, which had only read to me by Miss Beckedorff,
Ican be no judge ; but think you will not be displeased
with it ; but at the ending they have not mended it, for it

Ialso says had published all your father's papers, though

Inobody will or does believe that ; still would rather that

Inothing at all had been said about me than say the thing

which is impossible ; and shall only fare like Bruce when

he "pretended to have made the drawings to his publications

himself; his having wrote the book, or even having been in

I IAbyssinia, was disbelieved.
      must only add that am, my dearest nephew,

Your affectionate aunt,

                      Car. Herschel.
Chap, v.] Declining health of her Brother.  191

MISS HERSCHEL TO. HERR HOFRATH UND RITTER GAUSS.

ISm,                                   Hahover, Sept. 8, 1825.

      am almost at a loss how to express my thanks suffi

ciently for the kind visit with which you honoured me when

last in Hanover, for not only the wish of seeing the man

Iof whom so often had heard my late brother speak in the
Ihighest terms of admiration has been at last gratified, but

flatter myself of having found in you, sir, a friend who will

do me the kindness of presenting the works of Flamsteed

(published in 1725, with my Index to the Observations

contained in his second volume) to the Royal Observatory

Iof the Royal Academy of Gottingen.
   The regret feel at the separation from books which

have afforded me so many days interesting employment will

be greatly softened by knowing that, referring to the memo

randums in the margin of the pages in Flamsteed's second

volume, much time may yet be saved to any astronomer

Iwho wishes to consult former observations, and therefore
Ihope you will pardon the trouble am thus giving you, and,

with the greatest esteem, believe me,

      Sir,

*****Your most obliged and humble servant,
                                     Caroline Herschel.

   MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                                                     Hanover, Sept. 20, 1825.
.... II know not how it comes that am so barren
of subjects for filling up these pages ; my spirits are rather

depressed at present on account of my brother's health,

who suffers very frequently much from weakness, so that to

combat against infirmities and peevishness (the usual com
192 Caroline Lucre tia Herschel.          [1825.

panions of old age) depends entirely on my exertion to bear

my share without communication, for unfortunately we are

never in the same mind, and with a nervous person of an

irritable temper one can only talk of the weather or the

I Iflavour of a dish, for which care not a pin about. But
I Ithink shall do well enough, for am a subscriber to the

plays for two evenings per week, and Thursdays and Satur

days two ladies with long titles are at home. This is what

they imagine (I believe) a learned society, or blue-stocking
Iclub, of which, to make it complete (for all what can say),
I Imust make one.
                      am to have a day too, viz., Tuesday,
Iand begin to tremble for the end of October, when we are
I Ito start, for in the morning cannot work, and if gad

Iabout all the evenings nothing will be done. But we shall

see ! one thing must not forget, there are no gentlemen of

the party to set us right ; but luckily not much is required,

I-- to talk of Walter Scott, Byron, &c, will go a long way;

and subscribe to an English library, where they have all

the monthly reviews and Edinburgh Quarterly, Scott's

works, and a few other novels

Believe me yours affectionately,

                                    C. Herschel.

FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

IDear Aunt, --        by Mr.                Slough [after July], 1825.
           have sent
                              Golterman several volumes of

Mr. South's and my paper on double stars, which form the

Ithird part of the Philosophical Transactions for 1824. You

will, have no doubt, be gratified to hear that the French

Academy of Sciences have thought so well of this work as to

give us the prize of astronomy for the present year (a large
and handsome gold medal to each of us). Our competitors,

it is whispered, were Bessel, Struve, and Pons, the first for
Chap, v.]  J'. F. W. Herschel-- Gold Medal.  193

his immense catalogue of stars ; the second for his observa

tions, also of double stars; the third for his discovery of

twenty or thirty comets. Will you, on receiving them,
distribute them as follows: -- 1. Keep the bound copy for

yourself; 2. My uncle; 3. M. Harding; 4. M. Gauss;
I5. The Royal Society of Gottingen. The three last, have
Ino doubt, M. Blumenbach will forward.
                                        was gratified

Isome time back by a short note from Professor Blumenbach,

from which find he received the pictures safely.

  I have already found your Catalogue of Nebuhe in zones,

Ivery useful in my twenty-foot sweeps, and mean to get it

in order for publication by degrees ; but it will take a long

time, as it will require a great deal of calculation to render

it available as a work of reference.

   The permission to examine Leibnitz's MSS. will be very

Iacceptable to me should again visit Hanover, but of that

I have no immediate prospect. A very intimate friend of

mine, Mr. James Grahame, talks of taking up his residence

at Gottingen for the sake of the library of the University.
IHe is writing a history of America.
                                      shall give him a

letter to Professor Blumenbach, and shall beg you to in

troduce him to his son, llegierungsrath B., and perhaps

Dr. Groskopff will make him acquainted with Dr. Koch, of

the Royal Library at Hanover, who may be able to assist
                       If there is anything in Eng
him in his researches
Iland you wish for, or that you cannot get so well in Hanover,

pray name it, and will make a point of procuring it
                 J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

 *****Devon-.shibe Stbeet, Dec 30, 1825.
      I have not been doing much in the astronomical way

of late --but, en revanche, Mr. South has been hard at work,
194 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.             [1825,

and has sent a second paper of 460 double stars to the

Royal Society. He is returned from Paris, and is now
busy erecting an observatory, as he means to stay six

I Imonths in England, and cannot be so long without star
gazing.       enclose a little thing which  published in

ISchumacher's Astronomische Nachrichten which may in

terest you. Shortly shall have the pleasure to transmit

you some papers on the longitude of Paris, and on the

Iparallax of the fixed stars, which have now in hand. Do-
Inot suppose that pretend to have discovered parallax, but
Iif it exists to a sensible amount, think it cannot long
I Iremain undiscovered if anybody can be found to put into

execution the method am about to propose, and hope it

will be taken up by astronomers in general.

  I have so far perfected the system of sweeping with the
Itwenty -foot that can now make sure of the polar distances

of objects to within 1', and their right ascensions to cer
Itainly within 2" of time.
                            have re-observed a great many
Iof the nebulae, and in the course of the few sweeps have

Imade, have discovered many not in your most useful cata

logue. But am now fixed in town for the winter, and
have brought up the said catalogue to consider of the best

mode of preparing it for publication, if it meets with your

approbation.

Mr. South's later observations strikingly confirm the re

sults obtained by us jointly respecting the revolving stars,

and afford new and very remarkable instances in support of

Imy father's ideas on this subject. Of one pair (the double
star £ Ursa Majoris)  have no doubt we shall soon obtain

elliptic elements.

   The following is the answer from Professor Gauss to

the letter already given :--
Chap, v.]  Letter from Professor Gauss.       195

Dear Madam,--

      IBeing returned hither a few days ago from a journey

that had kept me absent during a month, found your

Ifavour of September 8th, together with youre"xtAretmlaeslyCcveall.u,"

able present of Flamsteed's "Hist. Ccel.,"
and your own catalogue. Be assured that acknowledge

your kindness with the most sincere gratitude, and that

these works, so precious by themselves, but much more so

by the numerous enrichments from your own hand, shall
always be considered as the greatest ornament of the library

Iof our Observatory.
       am very sorry that my absence from Gottingen has
deprived me of the pleasure of seeing Mr. Grahame, who

Iwas calling upon me the same day had set out for my
Ijourney. However, am glad to understand from your

nephew's letter, which Mr. Grahame has left here, that this

I Igentleman intends to return to Gottingen in the next year.

      cannot express how much feel happy of having made

the personal acquaintance [of one] whose rare zeal and dis
tinguished talents for science are paralleled by the amiability

I Iof her character, and flatter myself that in future, if find
Ionce more an opportunity of staying in Hanover, shall

Inot be denied the permission to repeat personally the assu

rance of the high esteem with which am,

           Dear Madam,

           Your most obliged humble servant,
                        Charles Frederick Gauss.

Gottinoes, Sept. 28, 1825.
       CHAPTEK VI.

LIFE IN HANOVER Continued.

MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --       Feb. 1, 1826.

IOn the 17th January received by the same post
Iyour letters of December 30th and January 9th.
                                                 should

have answered your precious communication of December
I30th immediately if was not in hopes of receiving daily an
I Ianswer to what sent on the 28th December.
                                              cannot ex

press my thanks sufficiently to you for thinking me worthy

of forming any judgment of your astronomical proceedings,

Iand am only sorry that cannot recall the health, eyesight,
Iand vigor was blessed with twenty or thirty years ago ; for

nothing else is wanting (and that is all) for my coming by

Ithe first steamboat to offer you the same assistance (when

sweeping) as, by your father's instructions, had been

enabled to afford him. For an observer at your twenty-foot

when sweeping wants nothing but a being that can and will

execute his commands with the quickness of lightning [!],

for you will have seen that in many sweeps six or twice six,
&c, objects have been secured and described within the

Ispace of one minute of time.

     cannot think that any catalogue but the MS. one in

zones (which was only intended for your own use) would
facilitate the reviewing of the Nebulae, and you are the only
Chap, vi.j  J.To F. W. HerscJid.  197

one to whom 1885, viz., 2nd and 3rd class, out of the
2500, can be visible in your twenty-foot. Wollaston, who
knew this, has given in his Catalogue only 1st and 4th,

&c classes of the first 1000, the second not having been

published at that time, and they are without the yearly
variation.

   Bode has given the first and second Catalogues complete,
and calculated the yearly variation to each by de Lambre's

Tables. (See Bode's preface, p. iv., line 18.) The last

I500 were not published yet in 1800, or rather 1801.

only mention this that if you wanted the variations, and

had a mind to trust to that catalogue of errors, it would

I Isave an immense trouble by copying them. But the more

  think of these, the more doubt if it would not be in

juring the places of objects merely (though accurately)

Ipointed out, to calculate them in the same manner as stars

repeatedly observed in fixed instruments ; and doubt if

your father noticed Bode's having done so.
   You will find undoubtedly many more nebulae which may

have been overlooked for want of time, flying clouds, hazi

ness, &c, especially in those sweeps which are registered

half sweep. It is a pity time could not be found for making,

as was often intended, a register in which the boundaries of
the sweeps, with the nebulae, were all brought to one time,
either to Flamsteed's or 1790 or 1800. The register in
Flamsteed's time, which is from 45° to 129°, is for that
reason the best mem. At the time that register was made,

the apparatus for sweeping in the zenith was not completed,

and higher than 45° was not used.

   If you should wish in the latter part of the summers

(when your father was generally from home) to fill up the
unswept part of the heavens, you might perhaps discover as

many objects as would produce a pretty numerous catalogue.
You will see in the register of Flamsteed's time a curved
198 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1S26.

line which denotes that the Milky Way is in those places,

Land if you see an and find a cluster of stars thereabout,

I Ishall claim it as one of those mentioned in my last letter

to you. It was the assistant's business to give notice when

such marks or any nebulae in the lapping over of the sweep

either above or below were within reach, by making the work

man go a few turns higher or lower. (N.B. No more than

Iis convenient without deranging the present sweep.) But
Iam forgetting myself, and fear am tiring you unneces

sarily, and will only add that if your father wanted at any

time to review or to show any of his planetary or other re

markable nebulae to his friends, the time and P.D. was, by

the variation of its nearest star in Wollaston's or Bode's

catalogue, brought to the intended time of observation, and
P.D. -- comp. of latitude, with allowance for refraction,

Igave the quadrant for setting the telescope.

   But after all, dear Nephew, beg you will consider your

health. Encroach not too much on the hours which should
Ibe given to sleep.
                     know how wretched and feverish one
Ifeels after two or three nights waking, and fear you have

been too eager at your twenty-foot, and your telling me that

you have been unwell for some months, and now only begin

Ito feel better, makes me very unhappy, and s.hall not be
Icomfortable till see by your next that you are perfectly
Iwell again ; am quite impatient to see what you have

Ito say about the parallax of the fixed stars, but on such

occasions am vexed that your father did not live to know

Iof your grand discoveries. You say something of a paper

on the longitude of Paris ; hope you will think of Gauss

when you have anything new.

Among the letters from your father's correspondents in

alphabetical parcels you will find under the letter P. some

of Pond's, who was about the end of the last century in
Lisbon, with an excellent seven-foot telescope of your
Chap. VI.]  Mr. South.                  199

Ifather's, and remember that several letters passed between

Ithem about a double star in Bootes.
"      am much obliged to you  for the sheet of Schumacher's
   Astronom. Nachrichten."
                               It is highly interesting to me,

and will set many a one right without offending anyone.

On looking in the 2nd Catalogue of double stars, No. 104,

C Bootes, VI". Class, November 29th, 1782, and 3rd Cata

Ilogue, No. 114, C Bootes, I. Class, April 5th, 1796, cannot

help thinking on the possibility that in the lapse of thirteen

years and a half the small stars may have come out from

Ibehind the large one. But beg do not laugh at me for
Ibreaking my head about these things, and will now begin
Ito talk about what can comprehend.

  IFrom your mentioning Mr. South in your last letter,
Ifear he intends leaving England, at which should be very
Isorry on your account, for if should not live long enough
Ito know you comfortably married, could only console

myself by your having always a Babbage, South, or Gra-
Ifhame to pass your social hours with.
                                        you can meet with
a good-natured, handsome, and sensible young lady, pray

think of it, and do not wait till you are old and cross. And

Ilet me know in time that may set hands to work to make

the bridal robe ; here are women who work exquisitely, and

*****at a price within the reach of my purse.
  IP.S. --Dear Nephew, have spent too much time in gos
Isiping with your dear mother for saying anything besides,

but am,

              Your most sincere and affectionate aunt,
                                                       Car. Herschel.
*****200
          Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.        [1826.

          MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.
                                                           Hanover, Aug. 8, 1826.

The long continuance of the great heat has had so very

bad an effect on my feeble frame ; and considering my
Iadvanced age, ought not to put off the making a sort
Iof a will, which
                   would set about with the greatest
Ipleasure if had anything to leave for which you would
Ibe the better. But am sure you will not be disappointed,
I Ifor you remember parted with my little property before
Ileft England (against your good advice) because thought
Iat that time should not live a twelvemonth.
          *****
  I IFrom the first moment
I Ifound was alone. But
                    set foot on German ground,
                   could not think of separating

Imyself from him, [her brother Dietrich] especially as his

health is so very precarious, that often think he will go
before me. At this present moment he is in bed very ill,

suffering from weak nerves. But the above is all by way of

showing you the necessity for begging you to answer to the

Ifollowing questions.
   My sweeper wish to leave to Miss Beckedorff, and the

picture of the Princess of Gloucester to her mother, for

the two ladies have been my guardian angels for many

. years.

I Dr. Groskopff is to have the seven-foot reflector, though
   know it will only be a relic to him, but it will not he

Idestroyed or sold for an old song. My clothing and such

articles of furniture as have been obliged to purchase,
my three nieces may divide themselves in. Your dear
father's publications in five volumes, Bode's and Wollaston's

Catalogues (full of my memorandums), and one of my
Indexes, shall be sent to you. Also a rough copy of the
Chap, vi.]       Making Jur Will.                                                                            201

general Index to your father's observations, and several

Iarticles of that sort with memorandums taken from what

Ihave called a Day-book, which at leisure you may look over

and afterwards consign to the flames, for cannot take it
in my heart to do it myself.

   The observations on double stars by you and Mr. South

I Is(shoalhl andsesnodmethlyembotuondyo) uan?--d tehlseevolume     sent last,  by South,
                                                            leave   them to    the Duke
of Cambridge !--answer required.
   Taylor's tables, will they be of use to you for your godson
Babbage ?--else they must be only an ornament to Gros-

Ikopff's library !-- answer required.
       am impatient to have your answer to this stuff, which

I *****am almost ashamed to trouble you with.
IMy next shall be of a more agreeable subject, and have

only to say,     I am,

                 Your most affectionate aunt,

                                                                   C. Herschel.

FROM J. F. W. HEESCHEL TO MISS HEESCHEL.

Dear Aunt, --                                             Montpellier, Sept. 17, 1826.

You will think me a strange gad-about, but my last,
if you have got
                 will have prepared you to expect letter
I
                             it,
                                   I

                                                                                          a

                                            I
                                                                                                          a
from either the north or south of Europe from me, in short

from any country except England.                          was then not decided

whether to go to Norway or the south of France, but here

am at last, and having a letter-writing day before me

and yours of the 8th August in my portfolio, cannot do

better than to answer it.

With regard to the dispositions you mention in your

letter, and respecting which you express                           wish for my
202 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                        [isae.

opinion, they are such as it is impossible to do otherwise

than approve, and such as the good sense and kindness

which marks everything you do has dictated.  *
            ****
I have been rambling over the volcanoes of Auvergne,
Iand propose before
                     quit this, to visit an extinct crater

which has given off two streams of lava at Agde, a town

about thirty miles south of this place on the road to the
ISpanish frontier. Into Spain, however,
                                             do not mean to
Igo, --having no wish to have my throat cut.
                                                am told,

however, that a regular diligence runs between this and

Madrid, and is as regularly stopped and robbed on the

 way.

_ You say you wish for an answer respecting the vol. of

 Iobservations on double stars, sent by Mr. South and my

 self, but can do better than leave such matters to your
 judgment ? At the same time, as having belonged to you

they could not but have a value in my eyes beyond my own
Icopy ; but pray decide yourself.
                                   have several left.
I regret extremely to hear you feel those little (perhaps

not little) inconveniences we are none of us exempt from,
Iarising from the imperfections of human nature, both in
ourselves and those we live with.  believe the best receipt

for them is endurance and a determination to show ourselves

I Isuperior to them.
      have my rubs now and then too, but make up my mind

I Ito them as quite inevitable, and arising from causes over
which have no control.        am very sorry to hear of my

uncle's bad state of health.
I must be in England in the beginning of October, or at
Ifarthest, by the 15th. So, you see, have no time for
IHanover on my way back. It is dreadfully hot here, and
Iam much disappointed with the place. However, hope to
Iget one day of intense sunshine while
                                             remain in this
J.chap, vi.]  R W. Herschel in Auvergne.            203

latitude on account of some observations on solar radiation
I Ihave to make with a new instrument which made before
I Ileft England, and brought with me.
                                       carried it up the
Puy de Dome, and was in hopes to have used it at the Great

St. Bernard, in Switzerland', but that must now stand over

for another year.

  IAdieu, dear aunt,
Iever realms see "--  and believe  me-- " where'er  go, what

                      Your affectionate nephew,

                                        J. F. W. H.

                 MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                                                                                                                    Sept. 29, 1826.

   My dearest Nephew, --

      IWithin this hour only received your dear letter,
Idated Montpellier, Sept. 17th, which assure you has made

quite another (and what is more) a proud woman of me ; for

Iyour answers to my few questions are so kindly expressive of

approbation, that shall in future not fear to follow my

Iown opinion, which through my whole lifetime never ven

tured to do before.

  I Iam glad you did not come to Hanover, for am sure to
Ipart from you once more would finish me before am quite

prepared for going.

  IThe letter you mention having written me before you

left England have not received. The fault does not lie
here, for the secretary here takes too much pleasure in

Isending me my letters.
      must hasten to get my packet away, but will only beg

Ito let me know through Miss Baldwin as soon as you get

home of your safe arrival, for fear you must often be
exposed to great dangers by creeping about in holes and
204 Caroline Lucretia Hcrschel.               [1826.

Icorners among craters of volcanoes,  but you know best, and
  hope you found something
                      I, am,

         My dear nephew's affectionate aunt,

                                      C. Herschel.

         MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W\ HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --                 Nov. 1, 1826.

         The 1st vol. of the translation of your dear father's
Ipapers is come out. shall have it in a few days from the
Ibookbinder, and in February, am told, the next volume
Iwill make its appearance.
                            wish you would inform me as
I Isoon as possible if shall send you a copy, that may write
for one in time to have it ready by the end of December,

when the messenger leaves Hanover. It is a pity you

cannot have it immediately. The plates are not with the

work, but are to be had bound in a separate book (I suppose

Iwhen the whole is finished).

     long to know that you are arrived safe and in good

Ihealth in England again, for by your last, dated MontpeUier,

Sept. 17th, see that you had then another volcanic moun

tain to visit, besides an observation to make on solar

radiation with your new instrument ; the very thought of

Iit puts me in a fever all over --at this present moment,

though we have no longer to complain of heat ; so beg

you will inform me that your health has not been injured,

and that you have not been totally disappointed in your

Iresearches.
      lead a very idle life, my sole employment consists in

keeping myself in good humour and not be disagreeable to

others.

Groskopff tells me the translation of your father's papers
causes a great sensation among the learned here in

*****Hanover.
Chap, vi.]  Accident at Sea.                     205

            Believe me, dearest nephew,

                             Yours, most affectionately,
                                                   C. Hersciiel.

            MISS HEESCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

IMy dearest Nephew, --               Dee. 5, 1826.

            received your letter of the 18th November, the day

before yesterday, therefore fifteen days old, which is pretty
Iwell considering the time of year.
                                     hope this will reach
Iyou soon, for have longed very much to give you an
Iaccount of the last parcel of papers you sent, which only
Ideferred till had received an account of your safe arrival

in England by your own hands.

The parcel which you gave to Mr. Goltermann on the

18th August arrived here by the messenger on the 3rd

November, and five days after (which it took me to dry the

copies, for the messenger had met with storm and accidents

at sea, and some of Ms boxes had been under water), viz.,'

Ithe 18th Nov., sent to Gottingen, according to direction,
Iwith a note, to Gauss. And those to Bessel and Encke

enclosed with Bode's copy, and wrote a letter to the same by

way of thanks for some kind enquiries he had made after

Ime ; and now see that fourteen days after this good man
I[Bode] departed this world in his eightieth year, but have

no doubt he has delivered the papers immediately, for he

had no illness, and was at his last hour at his writing-table

employed with writing the " Berliner Jahrbuch " for 1830.

The copies were, after being dried, perfectly clean, no

stain remaining, and that they were so long detained is not

the fault of Mr. G., for the Michaelmas messenger was the
206 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.                 [182&

Ifirst that went after the 18th Aug. In the parcel found

Ialso the letter you wrote before leaving England, which

concluded to have been lost, but now all is safe.

I Sun and Comet. --At Hanover totally cloudy, and by what

  can learn from a certain astronomical gossip, Prof. Wild,
it has been so throughout all Germany, for he has had no

account that anything has been seen on the 18th Nov. On

Ithe 17th it is mentioned (in the Zeitungen, believe) a large

spot on the sun to have been observed at Frankfort, but the

18th being cloudy it could not be pursued.
  In your observations with the twenty-foot you mention a

Mr. Eamage as having observed with you ; and in another
place you speak of his twenty-five-foot reflector. Pray tell

Ime something about this gentleman, for never heard his
Iname before, and if had not been so fortunate as to have
I Iseen Babbage and South just before left England, should

not now have the comfort to know you had so estimable

Ifriends to communicate with ; and shall rejoice to know
Ithat the number of valuable men have known, and are no

more, might be replaced by some who are worthy to be con

temporary with the son of your father !

  IYou ask, as it were, if were satisfied with the way in
If Iwhich you have mentioned me in that paper ?
                                                 should
Ianswer honestly should say not quite, for you set too great
Ia value on what have done, and by saying too much is say
Iing too little of my brother, for he did all. was a mere tool

which he had the trouble of sharpening and to adapt for the

I
                    I it,

                                                                    a

                                                             A

                                                                                             a
                                                                                                  a

                                                                                               it
purpose he wanted for lack of better.          little praise is-

very comfortable, and feel confident of having deserved

for my patience and perseverance, but none for great abilities-

or knowledge. But of this you will perhaps be judge, as

am now gathering from loose memorandums little history

of my life during the years from 1772 to 1788
Chap, vi.] Monkey Clock to count Seconds.  207

  IYou mention a monkey-clock, or jack, in your paper.

would only notice (if you mean the jack in the painted deal
case) that Alex made it merely to take with me on the roof

I Iwhen was sweeping for comets, that might count seconds
Iby it going softly downstairs till was within hearing of the

beat of the timepiece on the first floor (at that time our
observatory) all doors being open. Your father never used
it except when polishing the forty-foot

   In about three weeks the messenger leaves Hanover, and

I will send you the first volume of the translation of your

Ifather's papers; but shall not order ten copies as you
Idesired, till you give me further orders, for do not think

you will be pleased with the work, and it seems there is not

much call for them. Dr. Luthmer, says Pfaff, was not the

man who ought to have attempted such a work, it ought to

Ihave been a Bessel.                beg to be kindly
   To your dear mother and Miss B.

remembered,

             And remain

                    Yours, most affectionately,

                                           C. Herschel.

FROM MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W'. HERSCHEL.

Dearest Nephew, --                         Dec 24, 1826.

You will with this receive the only volume of the

translation (printed on bad paper, without the prints, &c,

I&c,) which is out at present, and unless you desire me in
your next to send you ten copies,  shall only take one

Iwhich can serve us both.
     certainly will do as you desire, and tell you the amount,

if at any time you should want some expensive publication,

as our bookseller here can get by return of post from

ILeipsic whatever is ordered. But as to trifles, beg you
208 Caroline Lucre tia Herschel.                                    [1827.

Iwill never think about, as should be at a loss for proving

that you, my dearest nephew, are daily in my mind, when

I am lavishing sums on nieces and grand-nephews, and nieces
Iwho care not for me, nor for them. But enough of this ;

only write me sometimes what you and your astronomical

Ifriends are doing.

     was much gratified to hear that Mr. South had received

the medal. Groskopff has seen it announced in the papers,

where your name was also honourably mentioned ; these are

the morsels for me to feed upon, for here are no astro

nomers but one, Dr. Lutbmer, who observes Jupiter's satel

Ilites, as you may see by the Berliner Jahrbuch, which

Isuppose you have, as usual, else have got them from :23

Ito '29, and could send them.

     must write a line yet to your dear mother and Miss B.,

and will conclude with wishing you a merry Christmas and

a happy New-year (as the saying is), and with loves and com

pliments wherever they are due, &c, &c,

                                                         C. Herschel.

 IP.S. --My brother is at present tolerably well, but

hardly ever knew a man of his age labouring under more

infirmities, nor bearing them with less patience than he
                                     *
does ;  the  rest  are well enough
                                    !

             MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

Dearest Nephew! --                      April, 1827.

       I have more than once asked if you would have my
Ihistory, but my question has never been answered, and

am (though unwillingly) obliged to send it off without

Ihaving received your permission
   Perhaps have told you nothing but what you have known

long since ; but as my thoughts are continually fixed on the

        * Dietrich Herschel died towards the end of January, 1827.
Chap, vi.] The first Chapter of her History.  209

Ipast, was, as it were, conversing with you on paper, not
Ichoosing to trust them to any one about me, for know none

who would understand me, or whom it can concern, what

my own private opinion and remarks have always been about
the transactions that continually passed before my eyes.

IBut there can be no harm in telling my own dear nephew,

that never felt satisfied with the support your father
received towards his undertakings, and far less with the un
gracious manner in which it was granted. For the last sum
came with a message that more must never be asked for.

I I(Oh ! how degraded felt even for myself whenever thought

of it !) And after all it came too late, and was not suffi

cient; for if expenses had been out of question, there would

not have been so much time and labour and expense, for

twenty -four men were at times by turns day and night at
work, wasted on the first mirror, which had come out too

Ilight in the casting (Alex more than once would have de

stroyed it secretly if had not persuaded him against it),

and without two mirrors you know such an instrument

cannot be always ready for observing.
    But what grieved me most was, that to the last, your

poor father was struggling above his strength against

difficulties which he well knew might have been removed,

if it had not been attended with too much expense.

The last time the mirror was obliged to be taken from the

Ipolisher on account of some obstacle, heard him say (in

"Ithis usual manner of thinking aloud on such occasions),

is impossible to make the machine act as required with
out a room three times as large as this."

   But when all hopes for the return of vigour and strength
necessary for resuming the unfinished task was gone, all
cheerfulness and spirits had also forsaken him, and his

Itemper was changed from the sweetest almost to a pettish

one; and for that reason was obliged to refrain from

                                                                                      t
210 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [iS27.

troubling him with any questions, though ever so necessary,

for fear of irritating or fatiguing him ; else there was work

enough cut out for keeping me employed for several years

to come, such as making correct registers of the sweeps in

which all Nebulae were to be laid down and numbered, com

I Iplete Catalogues, &c But what most regret is, that

never could find an opportunity of consulting your father
about collecting the observations made with the 40-foot into

a separate book from the journals, into which they were

Iwritten down among other observations made with the other
instruments in the same night.  know besides that

many must have been lost, being noted only either on slates

or on loose papers, like those on the first discovery of the

Georgian Satellites. Owing to my not being, as formerly, the

last nor the first at the desk (generally retiring as soon as the

mirror was covered), the memorandums were often mislaid

Ior effaced before had an opportunity of booking them.
IBut ought to remember that suchlike incomplete observa

tions were made under unfavourable circumstances. For

instance, the P. D. clock disordered by not having been

used for some time ; the timepiece not having been regulated,

nor every one of the out-door motions wanting oiling or clean

ing ; company being present ; the night not perfectly clear ;

and, in general, the first night the instrument is used

after it has been left at rest for some time, it cannot be ex

pected that all should go on without interruption or ease

without a good mechanical workman had spent best part of

the day in looking over all the motions, in doing which your

Ifather used to find great pleasure.
   But what most lament is, that between the interval

before your coming to the nge of forming a proper opinion
of the instrument, it had nearly fallen into decay almost in

all its parts. But we have all had the grief to see how

every nerve of the dear man had been unstrung by over
Chap, vi.]  Sir William 's Copy of Locke.            211

exertion ; and that a farther attempt at leaving the work

complete became impossible.
    But, by the description of the forty-foot telescope given in

the Philosophical Transactions, May 18, 1795, it may be
seen what a noble instrument had been obtained by all the
exertions described in my narrative ; but from that description
so briefly given there, no idea can be formed with what ac

curacy and nicety each part of the whole had been executed
to make it an instrument fit for the most delicate obser

Ivations.
   P.S. -- must say a few words of apology for. the good
King, and ascribe the close bargains which were made

between him and my brother to the shabby, mean-spirited

advisers who were undoubtedly consulted on such occasions ;

J.but they are dead and gone, and no more of them ! Sir

Banks remained a sincere well-meaning friend to the last.

                                                Farewell, my best Nephew !

            MISS HER3CHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

Dearest Nephew, --                         May 8, 1827.

IThrough the friendly care of Mr. D                  am

enabled to send you the first and second volumes of Locke,
I Ithe third volume, hope, will yet be found, and shall send
Iit by another opportunity.
                             know you will prize the book

when you know that it was one of your father's earliest

treasures, purchased out of his own little savings, at the age
of 18 years* --when, along with his father and eldest brother,

he was in England with the Hanoverian Guard, which you

will see by the date and name, written in bis own beautiful

handwriting. When in 1758 he again went to England, it

was under such unpleasant circumstances that he was

obliged to leave it to his mother to send his trunk after him

to Hamburg ; and she, dear woman, knew no other wants

                    * See p. 10.

                                                 p2
212 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                   [1827.

but good linen and clothing, and your dear father's books

*****and self-constructed globes, &c, were left behind, and served

us little ones for playthings till they were destroyed ; but
no more of this. You must excuse an old woman, especially
such a one as your old aunt, who can only think of what is

past, and is for ever forgetting the present
Now, there is gone a Herr Von Munighausen, who had

asked the same favour, [that of being allowed to take a
parcel to England] for they are all very desirous of knowing
J. IH., and would have called on me, and perhaps might
Ihave had my hand kissed once more.  assure you it is
no trifle here at Hanover to have one's hand kissed, if one

cannot count one's forefathers for sixteen generations back

Ias ennobled ; but, alas ! he was obliged to go at a moment's

warning ; but Dr. Gr. gave him your address, and hope

you will receive him kindly.
                  Farewell, dear Nephew, &c, &c,

                                 C. Herschel.

J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

^                                        Between Uh and Uth May, 1827.

 IMy dear Aunt,--                your packet by Mr. Goltermann,
             received yesterday

containing the ten copies of the first vol. of Pfaff's transla
Ition of my father's works --with the plates, which are really
abominable. However, there is no help for it.     shall

destroy those of the Nebulae. A much more interesting

Ipart of its contents is your account of your own history, for

which cannot enough thank you, and it is really one of the

most precious documents you could have sent me ; every

line of it affected me deeply. The point of view in which

it places my father's character is truly noble. You under

rate both the value and the merit of your own services in
Chap, vi.] Her Nephew s receipt of her History. 213

his cause, but the world does you more justice, and his sou

Ifeels them a great deal more than he knows how to express.
   shall preserve this as the most precious thing, and you will

add to the obligation you have conferred on me by sending

the papers you refer to under the title of No. I.

    The Journals and the mettwtirsts * also came safely ; the
Journals contain some very curious matter not known in

IEngland, and which comes very opportunely here, where,

am sorry to say, science is going to sleep.

  I have just completed a second Catalogue of double stars,

Iwhich will be read at the Astronomical Society (of which now

have the honour to be President) on Friday (May 11th) next

I(if can get it fairly copied in time). My work in the Review
Iof Nebulae advances slowly, as can very seldom get a night
Ior two at proper times of the moon and year to sweep. But
Ifind your Catalogue most useful. always draw out from it

a regular working list for the night's sweep, and by that

Imeans have often been able to take as many as thirty or forty
nebulae in a sweep.  have now secured such a degree of

Iprecision in taking the places of objects in the telescope, that

the settling stars (which prepare a list of each night and
arrange them in order of R. A. in the working list) cross

the wire often on the very beat of the chronometer when

they .were expected, and not unusually enter the field of

Iview bisected by the horizontal wire of the eye-piece. In

short, reckon my average error in R. A. in determining

the place of a new object by a single observation, not to

exceed one second of time, and in Polar distance a quarter

of a minute. This you will easily perceive to be a

considerable improvement in respect of precision, which

                     it was my father's, whose object
is more my aim than

Iwas only discovery.
Inot in your Catalogue,
                     have found a great many nebula}

                     and which, therefore,  sup2)ose

* Meat sausages-- a Hanoverian delicacy.
*****214

are new.
present.
   Caroline Lucretia Herschel.

IBut won't plague you any more with this at

Believe me, dear Aunt,

                         Your affectionate Nephew,
*****J. F. W. H.
MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HEBSCHEL.

My dear Lady Herschel, --      Hanover, July 10, 1827.

IIt makes my heart overflow with gratitude when

Isee so many worthy people remember me with kindness,

and particularly rejoice that Mrs. Morsom has borne her

Imisfortunes with such resignation so as to be still able to

participate in the society of her friends ; of which am,

alas ! through the great distance, entirely cast out, and am

obliged to trust alone to myself for keeping up my spirits,

and to bear pain and sickness, or feel pleasure without

Ihaving anybody to participate in my feelings. Out of my
family connections, however,   can boast to possess the

esteem and love of all who are great and good in Hanover,

but to a lonely old woman, who is seldom able to go into or

receive company, this does not compensate for the want of

sympathising relations.
IBut have now, by change of apartments, made myself
Iquite independent of anybody. As long as can do some
Ithing for myself this will do very well; but must not
Imeet troubles at a distance.
                               may, perhaps, be spared a
Ilong confinement before leave this world, else such a thing
Ias a trusty servant is, believe, hardly to be met with in this
                               it,
city, which, along with the people in are so altered since

the French occupation and the return of the military with

their extravagant and dissipated notions, imbibed when in
chap, vi.]  Her English Bed.                     215

Spain and England, with their great pensions, which they

Idraw from the latter country, that it is quite a new world,

peopled with new beings, to what left it in 1772. Added

to this comes the fear of having my new little English bed

I(which on my removal made with my own hands) burnt
Ibefore am aware ; for, figure to yourself what danger one
Icontinually must be exposed to, when, in the house where
Ilive, seven families (besides the floor my sister-in-law and

occupy) with their servants and children, are living, and
their firing wood and turf is all carried over our heads.
About a month before Easter a great brewery, very near us,

burnt down, with many surrounding houses, to the ground.

I looked out of the window, and the burning flakes fell on

Imy forehead ; besides this, have had four times the fright

*****of fires at some greater distance.
            Your most affectionate Sister,
                                          C. Herschel.

            MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --         Aug. 15, 1827.

IOn the 9th received the papers with your short but

sweet letter, and according to your direction they are by this

time at their destined places, all but Struve's and Bessel's ;

Ithe latter, was obliged to leave to the care of Encke, and
IStruve's to Schumacher. am particularly obliged to you

for your second Catalogue of double and treble stars, which

Ion reading it once over, makes me long for the time when

shall be perfectly at ease to take it up again ; for, by the

manner in which you gentlemen now attack the starry
heavens, it seems that there -will soon remain nothing to be

discovered.

   You mention that Mr. Baily intends to bring Flamsteed's
21 G Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                             [1827.

I Iomitted stars into a Catalogue ; send you a few errata, as

Iam not sure of having carried them into the copy left with
                                                              And in the list of
the three volumes  opaf pFelrasm, sintetehde'spawcokrekts."  Auxiliary Article,"

your father's MS.

Iis a Catalogue of omitted stars arranged in order of R. A. (a
copy of one which  gave to Dr. Maskelyne in 1789).

This, may perhaps save some trouble to Mr. B. in arranging

them.

   Some time ago Count Kupfstein sent me a copy of Litt-

row's observations to look at (Part VII. of forty-three

sheets large folio), which he publishes at the order and

expense of the Emperor. The copy was for the University

Iof Gottingen ; but could only admire the fine paper and
Ibeautiful print, as do not understand the manner in which

Iobservations are made with the new invented instruments,

for at the time made a fortnight's visit to Greenwich, in

1798, they had only the mural quadrant and the meridian

passage instruments.

  I must conclude for want of time ; and, to say the truth,
I Iam fatigued, for cannot sit up for any length of time, till
Ieight or nine o'clock in the evening, when find myself

Ialways the most fit for society, or a little business. The
weather has been too warm for me, and                        have done

nothing but sleep in the mornings and afternoon, and the

worst is that everybody goes to bed between nine and ten, and

I Ithen have no society but those can meet with in a novel.
IThe few, few stars that can get at out of my window only

cause me vexation, for to look for the small ones on the

globe my eyes will not serve me any longer.
   Tell your dear mother she must not give me the slip, for

I Iwill and cannot mourn for anyone more that love.
                               I remain, &c, &c,

                                                             C. Herschel.
Chap, vi.]  Continuation of her History.         217

            MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

Deadest Nephew, --                        Sept. 25, 1827.

IHerewith you will receive what have called No. 1,

which was never intended to have met your eye as it is ; but,

Ias contrary to my expectation, my No. 2 was so cordially

received by you, had intended to send you only an

abridgment of it, because it contains many things which

must be very uninteresting and almost unintelligible to you

on account of your being unacquainted with the (then)
manners and customs of this country, besides requiring to

remember that my father and mother were born and

Ieducated some hundred and twenty years back. But
I Imust send it as it is, or destroy it immediately, for feel

shall now never get well enough for making any alteration

Ifurther than running my eye over it and adding a note here

and there where necessarj\ But wish not to leave my

memorandums any longer to the chance of falling into the

hands of officious would-be learned ignorance, to furnish a

paragraph in some newspaper or journal.

  I will, however, save you and myself the trouble of

further apologising for sending you these papers, but just

Iexplain my reason for taking a copy of them with me.
   When took my leave of the contents of your father's
library, it was parting from all with which my heart and soul

Ihad been engaged for the best part of my life, and could

not withstand the temptation of carrying away with me an

Iindex for assisting my memory when in my reveries should
Iimagine myself to be on the spot where took leave of all

Ithat had been most dear to me.
   What is contained in No. 1 had intended for an ever

Ilasting pleasing melancholy subject for conversation with

my brother Dietrich, if should go back again to the place
218 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.  [1827.

Iwhere first drew my breath, and where the first twenty-two

years of my life (from my eighth year on) had been sacrificed
to the service of my family under the utmost self-privation

without the least prospect or hope of future reward. Or in

Icase had died in England, it was to have been sent to D.,
Ifor wished him to get a more correct idea of our father
Ithan what thought he had formed of that excellent being.

He never recollected the eight years' care and attention he

had received from his father, but for ever murmured at

having received too scanty an education, though he had the

I Isame schooling we all of us had had before him.
      ought to remember here, suppose it was in the year

1818, or perhaps earlier, your father wished to draw up

the biographical memorandum you have in your possession.

But finding himself much at a loss for the dates of the
month, or even the year when he first arrived in England

Iwith his brother Jacob, offered to bring some events to
Ihis recollection by telling what remembered having passed

at home during the two years his brother was with him,

with the proviso not to criticize on telling my story in my

Iown way. But not being very positive about the exact date

when my eldest brother returned, wrote to my brother D.
for the date when Jacob entered the orchestra, and found not

to have been much out in my reckoning. And from that

time on, your father became more settled, and could have

recourse to the heads of his compositions, &c, &c, for the

dates he wanted for his purpose.
IOf all that follows
                      do not remember to have shown
I Ihim a single line. But as had once begun the subject did

not know how or where to leave off, and went on, thinking

my brother D. might some time or other profit by getting

better acquainted with what had passed in our family before

his time, and during his infancy, till the death of his father,

which happened when D. was in his twelfth year, of which,
Chap, vi.]      Letter to her Nephew.  219

Ifrom the conversation had with him during the four years
Ibetween 1809 and 1813, when last in England, found he

had not the least notion, or had purposely formed a very

erroneous one.

   But in the last hope of finding in Dietrich a brother to

Iwhom might communicate all my thoughts of past, pre
Isent, and future, saw myself disappointed the very first

day of our travelling on land. For let me touch on what

I Itopic would, he maintained the contrary, which soon

saw was done merely because he would allow no one to
....know anything but himself.
                                Of course, about these
Ipapers could never have any conversation with him nor
Ianybody else, and send them to you for your perusal,
Ibecause do not wish to keep them any longer, and you

may put them in the fire after having read them over.
              Adieu, dear Nephew, believe me ever,

 *****Your most affectionate Aunt,
                                                      Car. Herschel.

               MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                                                                                            Dec 22, 1827.
.... IOf Dr. Olbers, hear frequently through a sister
and niece here at Hanover; the last was that he was

Ilamenting at Captain Miiller not having brought the paper

you.had intended for him ; the poor man, hear, is grown

corpulent and short-breathed, so that he cannot mount

I Iup to his observatory without difficulty.
      heard from Capt. Miiller (what had been thinking

before) that poor Encke has not changed his situation for
I Ithe better.
                do not mean with regard to income, for

believe his salary is four or five thousand thalers per year,

which is equal, or even more, than that of a Prime Minister ;

but he has no instruments. Much is promised, but he gets
220 Caroline Lucretia Hersdicl.                             [1828.

nothing ; and besides, his family is settled in Gotha. It is

I Ia pity such a man should be obliged to be idle.                                                     had

   In my last to your dear mother wrote nearly all

to say about myself, except what concerns my health, of
I Iwhich could not give a very good account. Lately was
Iobliged to consult an oculist, but suppose he cannot help
Ime, for he has not ordered me anything.
                                          cannot, after

having been asleep, get my eyes open again for a consider

able time, this is attended with a violent headache and
Igiddiness --but no more of this.

  Once you were asking me if wanted a few of my Indexes ;
Iif it is not too late (as you have
   would be glad of a couple.        given up the secretaryship),

                                       N.B. --A hundred copies

Iwere promised me as a present, and were not half of them

received. The one have by me, which is intended for

Iyou, with my corrections in it, is spoilt in the binding ; and
  should like to give one to the Duke of Cambridge, to put

him in mind of the little old woman who has so frequently

Ibeen cheered by his kind attentions.
                       remain your most affectionate Aunt,
                                     Car. Herschel.

MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dear Lady Herschel,                    May 9th, 1828.

IThis is to be a letter of thanks.but cannot determine
Ito whom am to allot the greatest portion of my thanks,

to you or Miss Baldwin, for her agreeable letter of April

15th, in which so many interesting friends and acquaint

Iances of mine are remembered. For, believe me, my dear

Lady H., it is ever with great reluctance am yearly draw

ing on you for so considerable a sum, wInch in the end

must some time or other be felt by my dear nephew ; but

I
                                    it,
                           I

                              I
                                                                                                    ?
who would have thought that should last so long but

now am losing strength daily, and cannot expect to be
Chap. VI.]           Her Anmiity.                    221

Ilong for this world.  only say this by way of putting you
Iin mind that received my annuity at the beginning of the

first half-year, and therefore when you hear of my death all

Iyour care on my account must be at an end, for leave a

sufficient sum to defray all possible expenses attending a
funeral, &c

  I IBut there is nothing grieves me more than that, at my

leaving England, gave myself, with all was worth, to

this branch of my family, believing them (from what my
brother D. and their letters told me) as many noble-hearted

I Iand perfect beings as there were individuals. But though
    am disappointed, should not like to take back my

promise, which could not be done without creating ill-will,

Iand am too feeble to bear up against any altercation.
  I Isee have not left room for all the loves and compli

Iments, but beg you will give them to whoever is kind

enough to remember,

            My dear Lady Herschel,

                     Your most affectionate Sister,

                                    C. Herschel.

   In February, 1828, Miss Herschel's services to the

Science of Astronomy were recognized by the presen
tation to her of the Gold Medal of the Royal Astrono

mical Society.

FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Dear Aunt,--                        May 5, 1S28.

      IHerewith you will receive the medal, of whose award

you will have read in the printed notice enclosed you

some ten days ago. My mother also begs your acceptance

of a pair of bracelets, and begs me to thank you for your

Ikind and beautiful present of needlework (which even
222 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                     [182s.

Icould admire), and for the methvursts (which fully com
Iprehended, and part of which still comprehend, having

regaled on one for breakfast). My mother and cousin are
Iquite well, and desire their best love. Slough stands where
it did, and star-gazing goes on well.  have just erected a

new instrument (Mr. South's ci-devant large equatorial),

and you shall hear from time to time what is doing

Your affectionate Nephew,

             J. F. W. Herschel.

The presentation of the medal is the natural duty

of the president of the society, but as Mr. Herschel

held that office on this occasion, and had with charac

teristic modesty "resisted," as he confesses, the pro

posed honour, the following supplemental address was

delivered by Mr. South, the vice-president, who pre

sented the medal to Miss Herschel through her

nephew. It is an eloquent and not unworthy tribute,

and an interesting memorial of the esteem in which

she was held by the most distinguished body of

scientific men in the kingdom.

J.Address to the Astronomical Society, by  South, Esq., on

presenting the Honorary Medal to Miss C. Herschel, at

   its Eighth General Meeting, February 8th, 1828.
Gentlemen, --

          Our excellent president, in his address, has informed
you of the appropriation of two of your gold medals since
our last anniversary :-- a third, however, has been decreed
by your council ; and when it is known that Miss Caroline
Herschel is the individual to whom it stands adjudged, it is

not difficult to determine why the president has avoided the
slightest allusion to it.
Chap, vi.] Gold Medal of Astronomical Society. 223

   But that your Council has not selected one from the many
of its members infinitely more competent to do justice to

Ithe transcendent merits of that illustrious lady is most
assuredly matter of regret.  mu3t therefore throw myself

upon your indulgence, hoping that the goodness of the cause
may in some measure compensate for the inability of its

advocate.

The labours of Miss Herschel are so intimately connected

with, and are generally so dependent upon, those of her

illustrious brother, that an investigation of the latter is

absolutely necessary ere we can form the most remote idea

of the extent of the former. But when it is considered that
Sir W. Herschel's contributions to astronomical science

occupy sixty-seven memoirs, communicated from time to

time to the Royal Society, and embrace a period of forty
Iyears, it will not be expected that should enter into their
Idiscussion. To the Philosophical Transactions
                                                must

refer you, and shall content myself with the hasty mention

of some of her more immediate claims to the distinction

Inow conferred. To deliver an eulogy (however deserved)

upon his memory is not the purpose for which am placed

here.

   His first catalogue of new nebuhe and clusters of stars,
amounting in number to one thousand, was made from

observations with the twenty-foot reflector in the years

1783, 1784, and 1785. A second thousand was furnished

by means of the same instrument in 1785, 1786, 1787, and

1788 ; while the places of 500 others were discovered

between 1788 and 1802. But when we have thus enume

rated the results obtained in the course of sweeps with this

instrument, and taken into consideration the extent and

variety of the other observations which were at the same

time in progress, a most important part yet remains untold.

Who participated in his toils ? Who braved with him the
224 Caroline Lucrctia Hcrschel.  [1828

inclemency of the weather ? Who shared his privations ?

A female. Who was she ? His sister. Miss Herschel it

was who by night acted as his amanuensis : she it was whose
pen conveyed to paper his observations as they issued from
his lips ; she it was who noted the right ascensions and polar
distances of the objects observed ; she it was who, having

passed the night near the instrument, took the rough manu
scripts to her cottage at the dawn of day and produced a
fair copy of the night's work on the following morning ; she

it was who planned the labour of each succeeding night ;
she it was who reduced every observation, made every cal
culation ; she it was who arranged everything in systematic
order; and she it was who helped him to obtain his imperish

able name.

  IBut her claims to our gratitude end not here; as an

original observer she demands, and am sure she has, our

unfeigned thanks. Occasionally her immediate attendance

during the observations could be dispensed with. Did
she pass the night in repose ? No such thing : wherever
her brother was, there you were sure to find her. A
sweeper planted on the lawn became her object of amuse
ment ; but her amusements were of the higher order, and to
them we stand indebted for the discovery of the comet of
1786, of the comet of 1788, of the comet of 1791, of the

comet of 1793, and of the comet of 1795, since rendered

familiar to us by the remarkable discovery of Encke. Many
also of the nebulae contained in Sir W. Herschel's catalogues

were detected by her during these hours of enjoyment.
Indeed, in looking at the joint labours of these extraordi

nary personages, we scarcely know whether most to admire
the intellectual power of the brother, or the unconquerable
industry of the sister.

   In the year 1797 she presented to the Koyal Society a

Catalogue of 560 stars taken from Flamsteed's observations,
Chap, vi.] Her Astronomical Labours.                               225

and not inserted in the British Catalogue, together with a

collection of errata that should be noticed in the same

volume.

Shortly after the death of her brother, Miss Herschel

returned to Hanover. Unwilling, however, to relinquish

her astronomical labours whilst anything useful presented

itself, she undertook and completed the laborious reduction

of the places of 2,500 nebulae, to the 1st of January, 1800,

presenting in one view the results of all Sir William

Herschel's observations on those bodies, thus bringing to a

close half a century spent in astronomical labour.
   For this more immediately, and to mark their estimation

of services rendered during a whole life to astronomy, your

Council resolved to confer on her the distinction of a medal

of this Society. The peculiarity of our President's situa

tion, however, and the earnest manner in which the feelings
naturally arising from it were urged when the subject was
first brought forward, caused your Council to pause, -- and

waive on that occasion the actual passing their proposed

vote. The discussion was, however, renewed on Monday

last, and, although there was every disposition to meet the
President's wishes, still under a conviction that the actual

doing so would have been a  "deTrhelaicttioan  of public duty, it  was
    Resolved unanimously,                      Gold Medal of       this

Society be given to Miss Caroline Herschel, for her recent

reduction, to January, 1800, of the Nebulae discovered by

her illustrious brother, which may be considered as the com

pletion of a series of exertions probably unparalleled either
in magnitude or importance in the annals of astronomical

I Ilabour." This vote am sure every one whom have the

honour to address will most heartily confirm.

  IMr. Herschel, in the name of the Astronomical Society

of London, present this medal to your illustrious aunt.

In transmitting it to her, assure her that since the founda-

                                               Q
226 Caroline Lturetia Herschel.               [182s.

tion of this Society, no one has been adjudged which has
been earned by services such as hers. Convey to her our
unfeigned regret that she is not resident amongst us ; and
join to it our wishes, nay our prayers, that as her former

days have been glorious, so her future may be happy.*

   Extract from the Report of the Council of the Astrono
mical Society to the Annual Meeting, Feb. IS, 1835. t

   " Your Council has no small pleasure in recommending

that the names of two ladies, distinguished in different
walks of astronomy, be placed on the list of honorary mem
bers. On the propriety of such a step, in an astronomical
point of view, there can be but ODe voice ; and your Council

is of opinion that the time is gone by wherreither feeling or
prejudice, by whichever name it may be proper to call it,
should be allowed to interfere with the payment of a well-
earned tribute of respect. Your Council has hitherto felt

that, whatever might be its own sentiment on the subject,
or however able and willing it might be to defend such a
measure, it had no right to place the name of a lady in a
position the propriety of which might be contested, though
upon what it might consider narrow grounds and false
principles. But your Council has no fear that such a dif

ference could now take place between any men whose
opinion could avail to guide that of society at large ; and,

abandoning compliment on the one hand, and false delicacy

* The author of this hasty address feels no slight gratification in having

been present on the 1st June, 1821, at the last observations with the twenty-

foot reflector, in which Miss Herschel was engaged. He remembers also, not

without regret, but with becoming gratitude, that the mirror used for his im

provement, on the occasion was inserted, for  Atshteronlaosmt itcimaleS, ociniettyh,eVtoulb. eI,IIb.,y

the hands of Sir William Herschel. --Memoirs

p. 409.                                                                  Her-

  t This extract, as it bears on the subject of the recognition of Miss

chel's labours, is inserted here, though somewhat before its time.
Chap, vi.] An Hon. Member ofthe R. A. Society. 227

on the other, submits, that while the tests of astronomical

merit should in no case be applied to the works of a woman

less severely than to those of a man, the sex of the former

should no longer be an obstacle to her receiving any ac

knowledgment which might be held due to the latter. And

your Council therefore recommends this meeting to add to

the list of honorary members the names of Miss Caroline

Herschel and Mrs. Somerville, of whose astronomical know

ledge, and of the utility of the ends to which it   has  been
applied, it is not necessary to recount the proofs
                                                           "*

....Dear Aunt,--                May 28<A, 1828.

                Before this reaches you, you will have got it

  Pray let me          be well understood on one point.
of my doings.              resisted strenuously. Indeed,
I[Itthwe ams endoanle].
I Ibeing in the situation actually hold,t could do no
Iotherwise. The Society have done well.
                                         think they

might have done better, but my voice was neither asked

Inor listened to.
      ought to mention that it became a matter of discussion
at the Royal Society whether one of the Royal medals for

the year should not be adjudged to you, but the rule limiting

the time within which those medals must be granted being

precise, it could not be done without a violation of principle.
I have sent by Mr. G. a few copies of a work of mine on
ILight, for you to distribute.
                                shall by the next oppor

tunity (possibly by this) send some copies of a third cata

Ilogue of double stars, completing the first 1,000. The

nebula? are advancing rapidly ; have got about 1,500 re-

observed.

                                   Your affectionate nephew,

                                     J. F. W. Herschel.

  "* Motions were then made for passing these several resolutions, and the

same were carried unanimously." -- Monthly Notices, vol. iii. p. 91.

  t Of President.

                                                                                                                              Q2
*****228 Caroline Lucrctia Herschel.  [1828.

MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --  June 3, 1828.

      IAnd must once more repeat my thanks to you (and

perhaps to Mr. South) for thinking so well of me as to
exert yourselves for having the great and undeserved and

Iunexpected honour of a medal bestowed on me
   Here was interrupted, and all along of the medal ; for

Imy friends are all coming to congratulate me, and leave me

no time to think of what to say of myself ; but will soon

Iwrite again, and for the present will only beg that you (or

Miss Baldwin, for dare say she knows,) will give me the
history of the medal, such as whose head it is which is on

the one side ? (I know who it is like very well) and if the

impression is to be permanent ?

  INext, wish to know if you, or the Royal Society, or
Ithe Observatory at Greenwich (the latter think must be)

are in communication with the Imperial astronomer Littrow ?

If you have seen any of the publications which are yearly

Iprinted at the expense of the Emperor, could wish, if it

is not too much trouble to you, to know what you think of

the work ; because Count Rupfstein, Charge d'Affaires, sent

Ime the copy (which was to go to Gottingen) to look at, and

since then he wants my opinion about it. And know
no more about it than that it is a book printed on fine
paper, large folio, of 195 pages, with seven plates of the
New Observatory made out of the old one, built at the

top of the seventh story of the University at Vienna,
a description of the store of instruments, thirty-five
articles including rules, two spirit-levels and a case of

·drawing instruments ; tables of precession, aberration, and

nutation of ninety-four of the principal stars for the
Chap, vi.]    Thanks for Bracelets.                                      229

Ibeginning of the year 1835 ; but forgot the rest ; but so
Imuch remember, that the whole book is filled with these
Ininety-four stars, of which cannot comprehend the use, but
I say nothing about
                     I it,and hum and ha when the good man

begins to talk about it. Dear nephew, adieu
                                                                      a
                            am, your affectionate aunt,
                                                                              !
                                                  Car. Herschel.
                                                                                   ; it I
      have but just time to thank my dear Lady Herschel, inII
  ;I
the first place of giving me the great pleasure of seeing herit
own handwriting once more, which to me continues muchI
plainer than all the beautiful new-fashioned Italian hands.II

Secondly, return my best thanks for the beautiful brace

lets am going to let them be admired this evening, as

am obliged (though very unwell) to go to tea-party, and
will be no small trouble to me to make myself fine enough

for not disgracing your present.
    When next write hope shall not be hurried so, and

be able to tell you how goes here at Hanover. Last week

I"heard five songs by Madame Catalani at the theatre here
but of this, more in my next.

      With many compliments to Miss B.,

               Believe me, your most affectionate sister,

                                                          C. Herschel.

            MISS HERSCHEL TO F. W. HERSCHEL.
                            J.

Dearest Nephew, --                                                    Jitnc 23, 1828.

            III.,have but just time to write few lines to accoma
I

        it
pany the Journals Nos. II. and     therefore must beg
                                                                      I, I

                                                                            I
you to excuse the unconnected manner in which am

writing, for must require some time before and many a

one beside me, will recover from the fright we were put in

on the 21st, at three o'clock in the afternoon, by thunder
                                                                      a
230 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.  [1S2S.

storm, accompanied with a shower of hail of such an Tin-

common size as weighing three quarters of a pound ; some

speak of still larger. I, of course, could only judge of

Ithem at a distance bjr the look, as my carpet was covered by

them of all sizes and shapes ; noticed one in particular

of the form of a bottle of india-rubber (as it looks before

Ithe neck is cut off), but was at the time incapable of going

near enough, for was obliged to keep out of the direction

Iwhere they entered, forcing the fragments of glass to my

sofa (where was just going to take my solitary dinner) at
the opposite end of the room, which is twenty-one feet

distant from the window. The houses look deplorable, and

the streets are still glittering with powdered glass. Ex

presses were sent instantly by the magistrates in all direc

Itions to the neighbouring towns and glass-houses for work
men and materials.       have been fortunate enough to get

my lodging-room mended after lying only two nights without

anything but a shutter.

   Our gardens and country houses about Hanover have
had the same fate. This happened the day before a Volks

Fest, which the Hanoverian Burgers keep for three days

yearly, and for which all preparations were made, and is

now by many kept with a heavy heart.

  IBut must not lose this opportunity of mentioning what
I Iforgot in my last, which is to beg you will (when am no

more) take my medal under your protection, and give it a
place among those you have of your father's and your own.

I will take care that it shall be delivered to you along with
Ithose books which keep yet as companions, though it is
I Iseldom can look into them, for most of my time am
Iobliged to waste in lying on the sofa, where try to for
Iget myself by reading nonsense, over which soon go to

Isleep.
       have the two dullest months before me, for the plays
Chap, vi.]  About the Medal.                     231

and concerts do not begin again till autumn ; all families are
either gone to the baths or at their villas, &c My friends

Iare all some dozen years younger than myself, and cannot

always, or but seldom, accept their invitations. Haupt-

mann Muller took twice tea with me since Christmas. He

heard from Encke that a great astronomical meeting was to

take place at Berlin, to which Mr. South had been invited ;

if there should be any truth in this, and that you and Mr.

ISouth were inseparables, might hope to see you once more ;
Ibut must not think of anything at the distance, agitations

I Icannot bear any longer, only exist by attempting to be

indifferent about all human events, and hardly anything

can yet give me pleasure but to hear that you, my dear

nephew, and those who are dear to you, are well and happy.
                                     Yours very affectionately,

                                                          C. Herschel.

*****i My dear Nephew, --
            MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                              Aug. 21, 1828.

          What you tell me in the short note dated May 24th,

which accompanied the three copies of my Index, concern

ing the medal, has completely put me out of humour with

Ithe same ; for to say the truth, felt from the first more
Ishocked than gratified by that singular distinction, for

know too well how dangerous it is for women to draw too

Imuch notice on themselves. And the little pleasure felt

at the receipt of the few lines by your hands, was entirely

owing to the belief that what was done was both with

Iyour approbation and according to your recommendation.

Throughout my long-spent life have not been used or had

any desire of having public honours bestowed on me ; and
232 Caroline Lucretia HerscJul.  [182S.

I Inow have but one wish, that may take your good opinion

Iwith me into my grave.
      have no time or inclination to think much on this sub

Iject, else could say a great deal about the clumsy speech of

the V. P. Whoever says too much of me says too little of

Iyour father ! and only can cause me uneasiness.

   Mr. South have seen only twice, or perhaps three

times, and that was in yours and your dear father's presence,

Iand to all conversation between you and Mr. South

Icould only be a listener, and, seeing you so well agree

together congratulated myself on your having found a

friend possessing much knowledge of what passes in com

mon life, of which a young and deep mathematician and

philosopher has had no time of laying in a great stock.

  I heard you would make a visit to Struve at Dorpat
I Ithis summer together, and concluded should then have
Ihad a call on the way home. But on that account feel

now relieved from the painful prospect of a final parting

though it will cost me many melan
that to paper which yet wish for
 am too much destroyed at present
from you once more,

Icholy hours to bring
Iyou to know. But

to explain myself any further, and will only say that by
Ithe Michaelmas messenger
                           will send every scrap of
Ipaper which have yet kept solely for my amusement and

Ifor assisting my memory. You may look them over at

some leisure [time] and then destroy them ; for go not
one night to bed but thinking it may be the last of my

Ilife have a numerous and valuable acquaintance,
I Ibut keep all my difficulties to niyself, for was ever care
Iful not to injure a relation, or one with whom am con
Inected, in the opinion of others, by saying what think of

Ithem.
        must prepare to pay a visit at the villa of a friend
Chap. VI.]            On her Diary.                  233

Iof mine where have twice this summer refused an in

vitation.

So, God bless you, my dearest nephew, and be assured

of my affectionate regard.                          C. Herschel.

           FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear Aunt, --                                    London, Dee. 9, 1828.

I received your most valuable diary and all the papers
Iyou sent me by Mr. Goltermann

cerely thank you for them. You

Iself " by presenting them to me,
                             quite           saoffe,"aenxdposimngosyt osuinr
                             speak

                             but am so far from con
Isidering it in that light, that feel proud to possess them,
Iand if anything could increase the regard and esteem

entertain for their writer,  it"wsocrualpds  have   been their perusal.
Your promised Christmas                        and  lucubrations " will

not be less welcome.

  IThe Journals also came safe and well to hand, but in the

series you have sent me cannot find that for December,
If1827, which prevents my binding up the set.
                                                     you can
Iprocure this and enclose it with the next, shall be very

Iglad.
     trust to my cousin Mary for telling you all the news of

family matters. Astronomy goes on pretty well. My
I Isweeps accumulate.
                      am very sorry that anything said

should have put you out of humour with the medal, which

was a well-merited distinction, and so far as the Astrono

mical Society is concerned, most honourably conferred. All

voices are agreed on that, and on the propriety of the

thing, so pray don't suffer yourself to be put out of conceit
with it by my nonsense, which after all only went to the

manner, not the matter. Our friend S. means well, but

wants discretion.
234 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                          [1829.

            J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                        26, Lower Phillimoee Place,

My dear Aunt,--                      Jan. 14, 1829.

I Ireceived your two letters at once, and cannot

I Ienough thank you for the kind consideration which prompted

your offer, for will not yet call it your gift, as cannot
Ifreally consent to such a robbery.
                                     you are bent on giving
me something truly valuable -- infinitely more so than money,

Iwhich (though am not rich, and am now less so by some
Iannual hundreds than was, and am about voluntarily * to
incur a still further diminution of income) yet, thank God,

I am in want of nothing and would rather spare to you than let
Iyou spare to me. But if you want to give me what shall really

prize highly, let it be your portrait in oils of the size of my

father's. Let me send back the money, and employ part of

Iit in engaging a good Hanoverian artist to paint it. You

often tell me your time hangs heavy, so here am furnish

ing you with a refuge from ennui, and when you know how

much pleasure it will give me to see your likeness hanging

by my father's, and that you can without inconvenience or

difficulty (and now without expense) doisentreat you not

                                I iIt,

                                                  it

                                                            is

                                                 I
to refuse.  know what you will urge against it, but you
            aI
undervalue yourself and your own merits so much thatis it

will not allow any weight.               hope            not

   My mother ill with the gout, but

going to be severe fit, as she already on the mend.

                        Your affectionate nephew,

                                     J. F. W. Herschel.

            MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dear Lady Herschel, --                March 1829. 3,

I  long to congratulate you on the happy occasion of

   * An allusion to his approaching marriage, when he would resign his

Fellowship.
Chap, vj.]  On her Nepheufs marriage.                     235

....seeing your dear son so happily settled, but am almost
afraid your late illness  may have prevented you

from being present at the performance of the ceremony on

which the future happiness of my dear nephew is so much

Idepending.

     must beg you will thank Miss B. for sparing me so much
of her time by her circumstantial accounts of the interesting

Ievent, and hope she will continue to write, though am not
Iable to answer punctually, for am not free from pain for

one hour out of the twenty-four, and so it has been for a
long time past with me. N.B. --She mentions my nephew

Ihaving written me a letter informing me of his future hap

piness, but such have not received, and perhaps he may

only have intended it, or it is lost

   The following hint is only to you as a dear sister, for as

Isuch now know you : --
  IAll am possessed of is looked upon as their own, when

I am gone; the disposal of my brother's picture is even

denied me--it hangs in Mrs. H.'s drawing-room, where a

set of old women play cards under it on her club day. . . .

  I have no great matters to leave, a few articles of furni
Iture which had the trouble to provide myself with (though
I paid for furnished lodgings), would not produce a capital if
Isold. It is only pictures, books, telescopes, globes, &c,

regret should come into hands of those who know not the value

Iof them ; but Miss Beckedorff will take my sweeper under
her protection ; but enough of this    hope, above

all, to have soon the pleasure to hear that you will hold out

Iwith me now that we are entering on our eightieth year.
   But as long as God pleases shall remain

            Your most affectionate sister,

                                      C. Herschel.
236 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                             [1829.

MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

My dearest Nephew, --                            March 3, 1829.

I have spent four days in vain endeavours to gain

composure enough to give you an idea of the joyful sensation

IMiss B.'s (and your P.S.) letter of February 5th has caused

me. But can at this present moment find no words which

would better express my happiness than those which escaped

Iin exclamation  from   my"  lips, according to  Simeon.    See St.
                 v. 29   :   Lord, now lettest    thou thy
Luke, cap. ii.,                                             servant
depart in peace    "

                   !

have now some hopes of passing the few remainder of

Imy days in as much comfort as the separation from the land

where spent the greatest portion of my life, and from all
those which are most dear to me, can admit. For from the

Idescription Miss B. has given me of the dear young lady of

your choice, am confident my dear nephew's future happi

Iness is now established.
      beg you will give my love to your dear lady, and best
regards to all your new connections where they are due in the

Ibest terms you can think of, for am at present too unwell
Ifor writing all could wish to say.

  I have suffered much during this severe winter, and have

not been able to leave my habitation above three or four

times for the last three months, and feel, moreover, much

fatigued by sitting eight times within the last ten days to

Professor Tielemann for having my picture taken, which he

did at my apartment, and now he has taken it home to

finish. You will receive it with the Easter messenger, but
I Imust send it without frame
                               must conclude, for
I wish to say a few words to your dear mother. It is now

between eleven and twelve, and perhaps you are at this

very moment receiving the blessing of Dr. Jennings, in
Chap, vi.]     Her Portrait.                          237

Iwhich      most fervently join  by saying, " God bless you

both ! "

               Your happy and affectionate aunt,

                                     Car. Herschel.

               TO THE SAME.

IDearest Nephew, --                  March 30, 1829.

            have received my picture ; by the enclosed card

you will see the name of the artist  Whatever you
ImayMhink about my looking so young, cannot help ; for
I Itwo of the days was sitting to him, received the agree
able news from England --one day Lady H.'s likeness was

thrown in my lap (Mr. Tielemann taking it out of the box),
and four days after, the account of your approaching happi
Iness arrived. No wonder became a dozen years younger
Iall at once.
               was sitting about seven hours in so many

days in my own apartments; but there is but one voice,

that the picture looks life itself.

                               TO LADY HERSCHEL

                                                                          Nov. *16, 1829.

  I was unwilling to be troublesome with a repetition of
Ithe detail of my infirmities, to which have of late to add

cramps and rheumatic complaints, which rob me of many
hours' sleep and the usual nimbleness in walking, which has

Ihitherto gained me the admiration of all who know me ;

but the good folks are not aware of the arts make use of,

Iwhich consist in never leaving my rooms in the daytime,

except am able to trip it along as if nothing were the

Imatter.
      am glad you are removed again to Kensington, where
238 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                        [1829.

you are within a few hours' reach of all who are dear to you
I(a blessing never enjoyed throughout all the years of my

I Ilong life). But must get in another strain ; only when
Iam writing to you (in particular) cannot help comparing

Ithe country in which have lived so long, with this in
Iwhich must end my days, and which is totally changed
Isince left
II           and not one alive that knew formerly,
      it it,             ;
        I
                     aa         I
                                           I

                                             II
except my dear Mrs. Beckedorff through her means have,

however, been introduced to many valuable ladies of rank

and amiable qualities, but to keep up their acquaintance

am obliged to sacrifice my ease and required quiet, which

have still vanity enough to do sometimes.

  A fortnight ago paid my respects to the Landgrafin of

Hesse-Homburg (who looks younger and handsomer than

when we saw her as bride at Slough the day before she

left Windsor); was by her desire made the visit, and
                                  I                 a

                                                           I
was honoured with salute at parting, by way of showing

we were friends (as she was pleased to say), and desire to

....repeat my visit soon.
                     wish also to know on what subject the late
Alex. Stewart may have wrote, for that he was an author
                                                    I
                                                           I
know, but never saw any of his works and might most

likely not have understood them, for you know had no

time to read anything for my improvement, but was obliged

to be poring for ever over astronomical tables and cata

logues, &c

Another thing wish Miss B. to inform me of. The
             I
                  ;I

                                                 a
30th November the Royal Society opens with choosing their

President and Council wish for list of their names, and

likewise of the next change of the Astronomical Society of

London. But do not wonder at my being so inquisitive

about these things.      cannot think of anything else which
                     I
                               I
could interest me more than to see the names of learned

men on paper, especially when see any of those have
                                                    I
Chap. VI.]         Letters.                          239

known among them. Besides, as in December our concerts
begin, where the Duke of Cambridge, on seeing me, gene
rally makes some inquiry after my nephew and family, and

what is going on in the philosophical world, one does not

Ialways like to stand with one's mouth open, or to say

cannot tell ! . . . .

   Mrs. and Miss Beckedorff send their kind love
   Mr. Q., 63, he owns himself, marries a young lady in her

teens, but she owns 23 ; she could not withstand his pretty
equipage. He is grown very old and nasty, and good for

nothing but to injure his children and grand-children.

             God be with you, my dear Lady H.

                       Believe me your most affectionate sister,

                                                          C. Herschel.

            TO J. F. "W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

My dearest Nephew, --        Hanoveb, January 11, 1830.

      I am sorry it was not in my power to send a letter
Iby way of announcing the Journals, &c, which you will,

Ihope, receive soon by the messenger who left Hanover the
27th of December.  have been very ill and confined to

my room now three weeks, but it seems der Wiirg Engel* ist

Inoch einmal voriiber gegangen, at which am very glad,
Ibecause wish to be a little better prepared for making my
Iexit than am at present.

  I intend to amuse myself between this and Easter with

collecting and packing up those books which were to be

Isent to you after my death, and perhaps if have withstood
Ithis terrible winter may have the pleasure of hearing that

Iyou nave received them safe, and live in the enjoyment of a

few months more, in which hope to hear of the happy

increase to your family, and prosperity in general.  am now

  I ISo am to be godmother ! with all my heart !

            * The Destroying Angel has passed away.
240 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                   [1830.

Iso enured to receiving honours in my old age, that take

them all upon me without blushing

   Jan. 12th. --No letter for me yet ! and no news, excpet

that the Landgrafin of Hesse-Homburg sent me yesterday a

Ivery handsome fur mantle to wear when go to the play,
Iwith a message that if did not put it on, by way of saving

it,the next thing she sent me would be rod. am accused
                                              I
     a                                             a
                                                   I
     I                                                I
of having been clothed too thin, for which have been suf

fering these last three weeks                         will give my opinion,

and in style of critic, and you will find yourself not to
                a
come off quite free from blame. You have represented me
                      I
as goddess, whereas       have done nothing but what
                                           !  I

                                  J.                                  it
believe to be right; and wherever
                                                              I
                                                      did wrong,  was

because knew no better

          MISS HERSCHEL TO F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

My dearest Nephew, --                         Hanover, June 18, 1830.

      This letter will go by to-day's post, which believe
                                                         I

the last before the messenger leaves Hanover, and Lega
is
       it
            is
tions Rath Haase has promised to direct the box for me, so

that            to be called for at Mr. Goltermann's either by

yourself, or somebody who will look to that may come
safely to your hands. And will give you here list of
                          I                           it
                                              it,
                                                         Ia
the contents of the box, by which you will see that must

be very anxious till know that                it      safely come to hand,
                :I                                is
                       I
especially as was obliged to have the box made very slight
on account of saving size and weight.

      Contents --

Wollaston's Catalogue.

Bode's Catalogue.

My Index to Flamsteed's Observations.

Herschel's and South's Observations, bound in red

morocco.
Chap, vi.]  A Box of Gifts.  241

    Logarithmic Tables by Taylor.
    Seventy-two Papers of your father's, in five volumes.

    The parcel directed for my niece contains ornaments

Iwhich am afraid will soon be wanted for a general mourn
Iing, but am told they may be worn at any time. Miss

Beckedorff chose them for me ; my direction was they should
be pretty, and not of English manufacture, and not larger

Ithan what might be put in the space which showed her.

I Iam only sorry could not find anything that might please

your dear mother, for, to judge by myself, we want now only
ease, quiet, and patience to bear the pains and infirmities
attendant on our age ; and we are too far asunder for doing
more than wishing one another the above-mentioned quali

*****ties.
  I had intended to have sent my medal along with the

books, but since you have presented me with the handsome

Iminiature of your dear Margaretta, from which cannot
I Ipart as long as live, have mentioned already to Dr.

Groskopff that the medal, miniature, and my gold watch
[the gift of her grandfather in 1774], are to be sent to my

*****grand-niece and namesake, C. H.
  I Ido not like to send empty paper, but must. Time
Ifalls short, and am tired already with the thought of the
I Ilong walk have to take to cany this letter, for must see

Haase once more, and it is attended with great difficulty to

get so heavy a box over at present.

                       God bless you, dear nephew,

                                    Says your affectionate aunt,

                                                       Car. Herschel.
242       Caroline Lucretia Herschel.    [1830-1S31.

     MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

             Hanover, Oct. 27, 1830.
I IMy dearest Nephew, --
     see by my memorandum-book that sent a letter

to your dear mother on the 20th August, partly in answer

to one of Miss Baldwin's, which contained the melancholy
account of Miss Isabella [Stewart's] dangerous state of
Ihealth.  have ever since been very uneasy, and wishing
Ifor more cheering information, because
                                         know what a

drawback it would be on the happiness of all your dear

connection if you should lose her, besides the interruption
it must cause in the hitherto cheerful correspondence in

Iwhich even my dear niece took the pen to join in affording

me the only comfort am yet capable of receiving

  ITell your dear Margaret that the very day on which the

letter arrived, in which she requested some hah-, sent for

the hair-dresser and made him cut off all which was useless

to me, leaving plenty for a toupee and a little curl in the

Ipoll. But repented not having kept a few out of the
I Iplait, which might have sent in a letter, as understand it
Iis designed for a talisman against the evils of this hurly -

burlying world. But consoled myself with the thoughts

that no harm could possibly assail the dear little creature as

long as she is under the care of her affectionate and excel

lent mother, leaving a loving father out of the account.

Dr. Groskopff has been zum Ritter ernannt by his present
IfMajesty. So was Dr. Miikry last week.
                                         all is betitled
in England and Germany, why is not my nephew, J. H., a

lord, or a wycount at least (query) ? General Komarzewsky

used to say to your father, Why does not he (meaning King

George III.) make you Duke of Slough ?

          \
Chap, vi.]            Her Nephew's Book.                                        243

MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL, ESQ.

My dearest Nephew, --                            March, 1831.

       If it was not high time to congratulate you on your

Ibirthday -- of which most heartily wish you may enjoy
Imany returns in uninterrupted and increasing happiness--

might have still deferred to thank you for your kind letter
Iand the valuable present

your mother's example to
                            of your  "bforookm.      intend to                  follow
                            read it              end to end,"                   which
I was hitherto not able to do on account of my dim eyes ;
I Ibut now the days are getting longer think see better,
Iand to judge by the few pages have read, that so far from

making me go to sleep, it will be an antidote against a

Ipropensity for doing so in the daytime.
        much regret my inability to acknowledge my dear

niece's letter in such a manner as might encourage a corre

spondence with me, but it is difficult to write in a cheerful
I Istrain when one is continually in the dismals.
                                                                            do all

can to keep up my spirits under a daily increase of my in

firmities, and have been best part of the winter confined to

Imy rooms. My complaint is incurable, for it is a decay of

nature, and nine days after your birthday am eighty-one.

IWhat a shocking idea it is to be decaying ! decaying! But

never mind --if am decaying here, there will be, as Mrs.

Maskelyne   "otnhcee   was  ccoormrufpotritoinnginmemy(ognraovbese! r"ving  my  grow
ing lean),            less
I I22nd. -- Some weeks ago
                            wrote as above, which                               in

tended as a preface to my dying speech, with intention to
Igive you a few hints concerning
                                     , and indeed may say

If Iof all my German relations, except the Knipping family.
       did not fear that some of them would, after my decease,

introduce themselves as troublesome correspondents to you,

I would rather write about something else just now, and
I Iindeed had better drop the subject, for you will know,

                                                                                                                 B2
244 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                  [1831.

suppose, how to rid yourself of a pestering fool by answering

coolly, or not at all.

  I23rd, afternoon. --Yesterday was interrupted again, and
Ithe whole morning of the present, which had intended to

spend with you at Slough, has again been taken up with
gabbling with my radical servant. But the day after Easter

I I Iget another, and hope shall have better luck ; but till
Ithen am not mistress of my time, therefore will hasten to

inform you that Mrs. Beckedorff is packing up a parcel for

me, which is going from here the day after Easter

IThe packet contains a tpblecloth, with twelve napkins (the

cloth is eight yards long, Mrs. B. says), which hope my
dear niece will do me the pleasure to accept as a remem
brance of her old aunt.

  IYour book * have read as far as page 150, and met with
Inothing but what clearly can comprehend, and promise

Imyself much pleasure in reading the rest, which hitherto

have been prevented to do by being continually interrupted,

and besides not being able to read many pages at a time

before the lines run one into another.

   My dear niece said in her letter to me your book would

Icause a sensation, and so it has, as hear from all quarters.
I am told it has been translated into German from a French

translation, and much [all in admiration] is appearing in
IGelehrten Anzergen, which have not yet been able to get
.... I Ia sight of.
must give over and defer writing till

am provided with pen, ink, and paper. The first thing my

radical servant did when she came to me was to break the

bottle [containing] the ink of my own making, which was to

have lasted me all my life-time         First and foremost,

give my love to your dear mother, and believe me, ever your

most affectionate aunt,                 C. Herschel.

* Discourse on the study of Natural Philosophy.
Chap. vi. j  Letter to her Niece.                                            245

                      MISS HERSCHEL TO MRS. HERSCHEL.

                                                                          Hanoveis, May 14, 1831.

  I0 ! my dearest niece, where shall find words which can

express my thanks to you for writing me such an interesting
letter, at a moment when you were suffering from indis

*****position !
IMay 18th. -- Dear niece, how are you now ?  hope so far
Iwell enough to read what think necessary to say in answer
Ito yours of May 2nd.
                                    was glad to see that you think the
Itable-linen pretty, but tremble on seeing that you puzzle

yourself about sending me anything in return. Nothing

would distress me more than receiving anything from

IEngland besides such dear letters as have hitherto been
Iblessed with, for am provided with even more than is

necessary to appear in the best circle of society, whenever

Imy feebleness will permit me to go from home, and feel no

small regret at leaving so many good things among those

Iwho do not want or ever cared for me. Now, this once
        1                           I
       !I                                           I

                   it                                                    is
                               it,for all and you have nothing to do but to go by what dear
Herschel says -- he knows me, see, better than thought

he did.

have something to remark about what you call my

letters, which were to be deposited in the letter case.  ;

was in hopes you would have thrown away such incoherent   I
stuff, as generally write in hurry at those moments when
                                    a

am sick for want of knowing how looks at home, and
                                       it

                                               I
not to let rise in judgment against my, perhaps, bad

grammar, bad spelling, &c, for to the very last must feel

myself walking on uncertain grounds, having been obliged

to learn too much without any one thing thoroughly for

my dear brother William was my only teacher, and we began

generally with what we should have ended he, supposing
                                       ;
246 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.          [iS3i.

I Iknew all that went before. Perhaps might have done

so once, but my memory he used to compare with sand, in

which everything could be inscribed with ease, but as easily

Ieffaced. Some time hence you will see a book* in which

transcribed such lessons as my brother was obliged to give
Ime at such times when was to set about some calculations
I Iof which knew not much about.
                                          shall this summer
collect every scrap of that kind-- some written by my

brother, and some penned down as they flowed from his

lips, and some even incomplete, which were intended to be
Igiven more correct when at leisure.
                                      bought a very hand

some portfolio for this purpose, and had my nephew's new-

seal engraved upon the lock.

  I should not have thought of troubling my dear nephew
Ior you with looking over these fragments, but cannot part

with remembrances of times long gone by, so long as life is

Iin me ; but for fear should not have at the last moment
Ithe power of burning them, will keep them ready for being

sent off to Slough, for nothing of the kind shall be seen by

unhallowed eyes

MISS HERSCHEL TO J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --                 Hanover, June 4, 1831.

IJust now received yours of May 22nd, and the next
Ipost will not go from here till the 7th, and wish the wind

Imay be favourable that you may be soon made easy about

the £50, for which beg you will, according to custom, give

the above receipt to your dear mother. And you may as

well add my heartfelt thanks ; for what good can it do

troubling her with my letters, knowing the weakness in her

hands will not permit her answering them

                 * See p. 72, 1786.
Chap, vi.]  Her Grave. --Paganini.                247

 .... I have laid apart for every possible expense which

Ican occur at my exit. Six years ago had a vault built in

the spot where my parents rest. The ground is mine

auf ewig (for ever).
   You have made me completely happy for some time with

the account you sent me of the double stars ; but it vexes

Ime more and more that in this abominable city there is no

one who is capable of partaking in the joy feel on this

revival of your father's name. His observations on double

stars were from first to last the most interesting subject ; he

never lost sight of it in his papers on the construction of

Ithe heavens, &c And cannot help lamenting that he
Icould not take to his grave with him the satisfaction feel

at present at seeing his son doing him so ample justice by

endeavouring to perfect what he could only begin

                                    TO MRS. HERSCHEL.

 .... I Hanover, August 11, 1831.
                  wish Paganini may make some stay yet in
England, that you, or my nephew at least, may hear him.
The English cannot be more frantic about him than the
Hanoverians were. He filled our play-house twice at
double price, and though some part of the orchestra had
been thrown into parquet, still gentlemen were scattered
among the lamps and squeezed in among the performers on
the stage. You will think me the maddest of the mad

Iwhen tell you that, after spending three parts of each day
Iin pain and misery, make one of the audience twice a
I Iweek, if possibly can hold up my head ; for then am lulled

into forgetfulness of my severed situation from all what was
or is still dear to me, and amuse myself sometimes with
having my vanity tickled by the notice which is taken of my

being or not being present. In The Sun of July 13 is a
248 Caroline Ltccrctia HerscJiel.                     pssi.

Idescription of Paganini's face and looks, which could not

have given better myself after having had some conversation

with him (through an interpreter) ; on coming one evening

Iat the end of a play out of my box, found some gentlemen
Iwaiting to introduce him to me, which believe was partly

done to give the people an opportunity to see him.

 I am reading all the Parliamentary speeches as given in
IThe Sun, and there meet with some excellent ones by a

ISir James Mackintosh ; pray is he any connexion of your

family ? In the paper of July 6th saw a quotation (by a

speaker, Mr. E. Lytton Bulwer,) from a celebrated philoso
J.pher (meaning
 our                           Herschel) who had felicitously
observed that                  discoverer in science can do no
" the  own
       greatest
....more than accelerate the progress of discovery."
I remain, my dear niece,

       Your most affectionate

                               Car. Herschel.

   The following letter, from the celebrated Encke, is
one of the few preserved which belong to this period,
and gives graceful expression to the high esteem in

which she was held :--

FROM PROFESSOR ENCKE TO MISS HERSCHEL.

IMadame, --                                         Bebldt, Aug. 17, 1831.
          feel great pleasure
                               in informing you that the parcel

which has been forwarded to me through your kindness is

safely arrived here, and has been delivered to Professor

Mitscherlich, according to the directions given by your

Icelebrated nephew, J. Herschel.
       hardly know, madame, how to return you my thanks

for the trouble you have so kindly taken in transmitting the

parcel to me. It would, indeed, have been an irretrievable
Chap, vi.]  Letter from Prof. Encke.            249

loss to have been deprived of the excellent treatise written
by your eminent nephew, had it not reached its destination.

   Allow me, madame, to avail myself of this opportunity to

pay my respects to a lady, whose name is so intimately

connected with the most brilliant astronomical discoveries
of the age, and whose claims to the gratitude of every as
tronomer will be as conspicuous as your own exertions for
extending the boundaries of our knowledge, and for assist
ing to develope the discoveries by which the name of your

great brother has been rendered so famous throughout the

Iliterary world.
              am, with great esteem and regard, madame,
                          Your most obedient, humble servant,
                                                       T. F. Encke.

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W". HERSCHEL.

My dear Sir John, --        Hanover, Oct. 25, 1831.

But mind, you are still my dear nephew, and will be

so good as to give the above to your dear mother. With
I Ithis last sum,
            have actually received since am here a
I Ithousand pounds ; a sum which had no idea (nor am

I Isure your father neither) you would have been burdened with

so long, for when left England thought my life was not

worth a farthing. But no more of this for the present. . . .

I You promised me another Catalogue of double stars, but
  suppose you have had no time to arrange them. But do
not observe too much in cold weather. Write rather books

to make folks stare at your profound knowledge

Loves and compliments to all whom xve love, and God

bless my dear nephew, says

                            Your affectionate aunt,
                                          Car. Herschel.

IP.S.-- received Miss B.'s letter on the 16th. It gave
250 Caroline Lueretia Herschel.               [1832.

me infinite pleasure to see that Babbage and Brewster have
also been honoured with notice. As for the news of my dear

Inephew's appointment, she came too late, for on the 9th

was honoured by a note written by the Duke of Cambridge's

own hands, informing me of it.

         MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

         Hanover, December 25, 18S1.
...I . IDearest Nephew, --
         More than two months are elapsed since was made

happy by your dear letter of October 15th     hope

that perhaps some good account is on its passage and may

reach me before the rivers are frozen up, as at this time of

the year the posts are often interrupted.

  I have of late been very little from home, except two
Ievenings in the week to the play, for cannot walk the
Istreets without being led, as cannot trust my eyes to avoid

I Iobstacles, besides a total loss of strength ; so that the chief

connection keep up with this world depends on what by

imperfect glimpses can gather from the newspaper and a

little talk sometimes with Mrs. Beckedorff. But a few
I Iweeks ago exerted myself, fearing if
                                           delayed much
Ilonger might not be able at all to pay my respects to our
Igood Duchess of Cambridge, and wished to make good a
I Iblunder had committed two years ago, when was con

versing with her at the Landgriifin's for half an hour

together, taking her all the while to be an officer's lady, as

she came accompanied by her brother, the Prince of Hesse,

Iwho wore a moustache. It is the case in general, that

Ido not know my most intimate friends except by their
voices.  was, however, very much gratified by my visit.

A lady, who is in the habit of going to Court, left my name

along with her own with the lady-in-waiting, and the next

Sunday we were appointed to be there at half-past one (a
Chap, vi.] Last Illness of Lady Herschel.              251

Ivery inconvenient hour for me, for only begin to be alive

Iwhen other folks go to sleep) . But no reception could be more
friendly.  was made take my place by her on the sofa, and

after some conversation, the little Princess Augusta was

called to tell me that she had seen you at Slough ; you had

Ishown her the telescope and described how it was moved by
the handle round about.     asked her if she had seen the

little girls. The Duchess explained that her call had been

unexpected, and regretted that she had not had an oppor

Itunity of coming to Slough herself. Then the Princess was

sent to call her father, whom presented with your book,

"Iand he went to fetch his Spectacles, and was much pleased
           I
                  it,I

                                     it
                                                  it,

                                               I

                                                is I
with the subject, saying,   shall read      for like such
things." After had read the whole book myself --mind,

say the whole, though you recommended me to read only

the first and last chapters -- and knowing no one who

worthy to look into          had     handsomely bound  and
wrote in the top margin                                the
                            " To  His Royal Highness,

Duke of Cambridge."     At  the side   of   Sir Francis Bacon
stands "from " and in       margin at       bottom, " Caroline
                       the             the

Herschel, aunt of the author." By this means, know
           is

                                        it

                                       I

                                                                            it
secured from contamination in the Duke's library, where

anybody who desirous of reading will find it.

My dearest Niece, --                        December 26th.

So far wrote last night, thinking to fill this page
           if I

                         is

                       is I
                                                      ;

                                                           is
                                                               is

                                             I
                                                                                                       a
to-day, with such news as should like to communicate to

my nephew he was present but now all fled from my

memory, for my dear sister ill, and perhaps still in danger,

and my only trust        in your goodness of sending me

speedy account, which may confirm the hope you seem to
entertain of her recovery. For there
                                            nothing         so

ardently desire as to be spared the pain of mourning for a
252 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.       [1832.

Isingle individual of those friends have in England, and

how much more it would affect me to lose one so nearly

connected, and within a few months of my own age, it may
....be easily imagined
                        Next to listening to the conversa
I Ition of learned men, like to hear about them, but find

myself, unfortunately, among beings who like nothing but

Ismoking, big talk on politics, wars, and such like things.

Of our German astronomers, have lately heard nothing ;

but that, perhaps, is owing to Encke having had the cholera,
but of which he soon recovered. Gauss has been long un

happily situated by losing his second wife, who had been

....long lingering
 .... I beg once more for an early assurance of my dear
sister's recovery.

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --                 Hanover, Jan. 20, 1832.

My dear niece's and your letter of January 3rd, have

indeed answered your kind intentions, for the painful com

munication of your last found me prepared, and enabled me

Ito break the black seal with tolerable composure, and

found no small consolation from j-our description of the easy

ending of your dear departed parent.
IAt this moment, am incapable of saying anything of
I Imyself.
know it cannot be long before shall follow the

dear departed, and my pen would trace nothing but lamen

tations at the prospect that my remains will not be joined

Iin rest by the side of those with whom lived so long.

  IBut beg and trust you will continue to bless me with

your good opinion and approbation, until the close, for that

I Ihave hitherto been in possession of the same, conclude
Ifrom the kind letters receive from your own hands
Chap, vi.]    Enters her eighty-third year.                     253

              MISS HEHSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dearest Niece, --                    Hanover, March 14, 1832.

        IYour precious letter, which received this morning,
has relieved my mind from the fear that some ill might have

befallen my dear friends, because in my solitude the time

between January 7th and March 14th, seems to be an age ;

besides, the last melancholy letters required some soothing

Isubject to think on, for do nothing else but think of the
Ispot where once was and never can be again.

  IBut now all is well ; your dear letter will make me happy

for some time to come, and in my next will more fully
        I,

             it,

                  I
                                                II
reply to      when hope to be more composed than am

just now, as the day after to-morrow will be my birthday,

when    at    perhaps, enter on     my   eighty-third year.  "       am
always        the return of that   day  what one may call
                                                                hipt,"

and therefore must destroy my thoughts any how as well as

can.
II
kept my dear nephew's birthday last week, the 7th ofI

March, by thinking of you throughout the whole day.
When was at dinner, made my maid stand opposite to
              I

                    !a
me, and pouring her out glass of wine, made her say, Sir
John Herschel, lebe hoch (for ever).

   But must hasten to say that which wish you to know
   I                                    I
                                              I
as soon as possible, which is, to beg of all things not to send
*****leave to those cannot esteem.
the parcel the good Miss B. intended for me.
....may consist of some dress of my dear departed sister          ; it
                                                 suppose

beg your acceptance of for a remembrance of us both
it I          I
                               it
          it
would vex me to add anything set store on, only to
                                        I

I     am much obliged to my dear nephew for sending the few

pages announcing the publications of the Royal Society. It
254 Caroline Lucre tia Herschel.             [1832.

is only such morsels as these which keep up a desire for

living any longer. But the premium of the King of Denmark's

medal, for the discovery of telescopic comets, provokes me

beyond all endurance, for it is of no use to me. One of my

I Ieyes is nearly dark, and can hardly find the line again

have just been tracing by feeling on paper.

*****Pray do not forget me when my nephew's recension of

Mrs. Somerville's works makes its appearance
TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --  Hanover, April 20, 1832.

      IMy dear niece has promised me your article * on

the writings of Mrs. Somerville. hope she will not forget
it, nor you the Catalogue of double stars. Such things

Imake me very happy, but of any expensive publications

would not wish you to throw away upon me now ; it makes
me only grudge to think of having to leave them in the

hands of blockheads. But if you have anything for Gottin-

gen, Encke, or Bessel, it amuses me to forward it. Olbers

has been dangerously ill for some time ; they tell me he is too

Ifat, and lives too well.
      only write this by way of announcing the parcel, that
you may inquire for it should it not come to hand in due

Itime, else am very tired, and must yet make up the parcel,
Iand want to show myself once more to-morrow evening at

the Oratorio, as it is for the poor, and will be the last per
formance this season

        EXTRACT FROM A LETTER OF SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

 .... I Hanover, June 19, 1832.
                    found my aunt wonderfully well and very nicely
and comfortably lodged, and we have since been on the full

                                  * In the Quarterly Review.
Chap, vi.]               Letter from Hanover.                   255

trot. She runs about the town with me and skips up her

Itwo flights of stairs as light and fresh at least as some folks
   could name who are not a fourth part of her age

In the morning till eleven or twelve she is dull and weary,

but  as the     day   advances she gains life, and is    quite "fresh
and              at  ten or eleven, p.m., and sings old
     funny "                                             rhymes, nay,

even dances ! to the great delight of all who see her

.... It was only this evening that, escaping from a
Iparty at Mrs. Beckedorff's, was able to indulge in what
Invy soul has been yearning for ever since            came here --a

solitary ramble out of town, among the meadows which

border the Lerae-strom, from which the old, tall, sombre-

looking Markt-thurm and the three beautiful lanthorn-

Isteeples of Hanover are seen as in the little picture have

often looked at with a sort of mysterious wonder when a

boy as that strange place in foreign parts that my father

Iand uncle used to talk so much about, and so familiarly.

The likeness is correct, and soon found the point of view.

Yesterday, being the anniversary of Waterloo, there was

a great military spectacle here in a large esplanade, where

tbhreornezeis"  erected  a tall    and   very pretty  column,   with a
                         " at the  top,  hopping on   one leg.
                Victory                                          A few

guns were fired, a sermon preached, the veil of the statue

(shown for the first time) pulled off by the Duke of Cam

Ibridge, and a good dinner eaten by 350 personages, of

which number had the honour to be one unit, in a vast

saloon in the Herrenhauser Palace, about the length,

breadth, and height of St. George's Hall, at Windsor, the
Duke presiding and giving the toasts, &c, in honour of

the Waterloo heroes. The saloon was ornamented most

curiously with guns, swords, and pikes, arranged in patterns,

and with Waterloo trophies, and a panoramic view of the field

of Waterloo in compartments. No ladies were admitted to

the table, and (what say you to the gallantry of the Hano
256      Caroline Liicretia Herschel.       [183-2-1S33.

verian military ?) there was no ball in the evening, nor any
Ithe slightest provision for the amusement or participation of
the fair. So Mars and Venus,     suppose, have had a
"tiff!"

                                            Adieu.

                 TO LADY HERSCHEL.

I IMy dearest Ndzce,-- ·            Hanover, Dec *, 1832.
         shall in future, when
                                 have anything to say to my

dear nephew address myself to you, well knowing his time

is too precious for spending     "evEedninbounrghreaRdeivnigew,"  and
Thank him most heartily for the

the description of the wonderful machine    But here
Iis the grievance -- cannot possibly read the Review, my
Isight is almost lost, and must wait till Miss Beckedorff or

somebody can read to me          Dr. Tias, who travelled

through Hanover, called on me to day. He talked strangely

about my nephew's intention of going to the Cape of Good

     "coMbnutrta.inwHehadautstmheanhsnaemaretdorldefrpoommret,Dstroo.mwTehiaicwsheetok-srdeapayglioemdat,hke"astIttmhiees
Hope.

ITimes
Ia lie !
Ialmost believe it possible. Ja ! if was thirty or forty
years younger, and could go too ? in Gottes nahmen ! But

I will not think about it till you yourself tell me more of it,
Ifor have enough to think of my cramps, blindness, sleep

less nights, &c

                 TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --            Hanover, MarcJi 30, 1833.

     IEver since the 6th of March, the day on which
Ireceived my dear niece's of the 26th of February, have
Chap, vi.]   Her Life in Hanover.

been enabled to dispel by its comfortable contents the

Igloomy reflections with which am on the return of your

and my birthdays assailed. But being obliged to spend

such days alone, at a distance from all who are dear to us ;

or, what would be worse, in the presence of beings of un

congenial feelings, one is apt to fall again into the dismals,

which the return of the late snow and frosty weather pre

vented my taking recourse to my usual remedy, which is to
Iturn all grievances into a joke. Your birthday celebrated
Iexactly like

with Betty,
          "  that of 1832,  viz.,  after  dinner    jingled   glasses
             and made her   say,          lebe Sir
         !                         " Es             John !   hoch !*

Ihurrah      She went in the kitchen to wash the dishes, and

with a book (a silly novel) in my hand on the sofa asleep !

I· · · ·
     begin to be confused, and had rather say nothing of the

thousand things which are running in my head, and which

Iall must be said within the next six months. As yet can
Ifollow your steps and proceedings, for read the papers --the

.... IGlobe --and saw that in June is the meeting in Cambridge.
            From these papers also see how all my valuable
acquaintances drop oft" one after another. Captain Kater
has lost his wife, the fine singer ; Mrs. Parry ; Lady Har-

Icourt ; your dear mother, are gone --the latter three of my

own age, and must hold out !

             TO LADY HERSCHEL.

                                                             Hanover, August 1, 1833.

          *** ·#

         I have now the pleasure of thanking my nephew for
his valuable book of astronomy, having actually received it

I Iby yesterday's post, and by a kind letter from Professor
Schumacher.  learn that            may yet hope to see the

promised Catalogue of nebulae and double stars, to the

             * Sir John for ever !
258 Caroline Lucretia Hersckel.                        [18SS.

Iperusal of which look forward as a solace during the time

you will be on your way far, far from us. But these
treasures cause me no little thinking about in whose hands

I Ishall leave them when cannot see them any longer, but
Icannot think of anyone should like to leave them in pre

ference to the Duke of Cambridge.

  I cannot find words which would express sufficient thanks

to my dear nephew for his last letter, every line of which

*****conveys a comfort.
   P.S. --Dear Nephew, as soon as your instrument is erected

I wish you would see if there was not something remarkable
Iin the lower part of the Scorpion to be found, for remem

ber your father returned several nights and years to the

same spot, but could not satisfy himself about the uncom

mon appearance of that part of the heavens. It was some

thing more than a total absence of stars (I believe). But
Iyou will have seen by the register that those lower parts
could only be marked half swept.  wish you health and

good success to all you undertake, and a happy return to a

peaceful home in old England. God bless you all !

                   TO THE SAME.

My dear Niece, --                 Sept. 6, 1833.

      IEight days are already gone since the arrival of your

dear letter of August 21st, and can hardly muster up com

I
                                                  it,
posure enough at this moment to reply to because my

ideas are still, what they ever] have been, more occupied
with future or past events than what passes immediately

about me. At present my thoughts are wholly fixed on the

busy scenes with which you are at present surrounded, and

regretting that am not with you to afford you any assis
chap, vi.]             Retrospection.            259

Itance, or to take charge of my nephew's workshops, as

used to do of his father's when absent ; or that it is not
possible to shake off some thirty years from my shoulders

that 1 might accompany you on your voyage.

  IIn answer to your query about my nephew's building a

grotto of coals must plead ignorance, but have no doubt

many an edifice of that kind has daily been erected and

erased without my being present, for my dear nephew was

Ionly in his sixth year when came to be detached from the

Ifamily circle. But this did not hinder John and from re

maining the most affectionate friends, and many a half or

whole holiday he was allowed to spend with me, was dedi

cated to making experiments in chemistry, where generally
all boxes, tops of tea-canisters, pepper-boxes, teacups, &c,

served for the necessary vessels, and the sand-tub furnished
Ithe matter to be analysed.
                                             only had to take care to ex

Iclude water, which would have produced havoc on my car

pet. And for his first notion of building believe he is

Iindebted to me, for it was on his second or third birthday

when lifted him in the trenches to lay the south corner

stone of the building which was added to the original house

I Iat Slough. It must have been the second year of his age,

for remember was obliged to use a deal of coaxing to

Imake him part with the money he was to lay on the brick.
   About the same time, when one day was sitting beside

him, listening to his prattle, my attention was drawn by

his hammering to see what he might be about, and found

that it was the continuation of many days' labour, and that

the ground about the corner of the house was undermined,

Ithe corner-stone entirely away, and he was hard at work
going on with the next.  gave the alarm, and old John

W" Giltosdhirbel,esas  favourite carpenter,   came running, crying out,
                                             not going to pull the house
                        the boy, if he is
down ! " (Our John was this man's pet, he taught him to

                                             82
260 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                           [1833.

handle the tools). A bricklayer came directly with brick

and mortar to mend the damage.

  I Iwas called to my solitary dinner just when was going
Ito give you a few specimens of my nephew's poetry ; have

some by me, composed when about eight or nine years old,

I Iin a most shocking handwriting ; but generally about this

time am so sleepy that think it will be best to give you
the continuation in a posthumous letter from C. H. to Lady
M. B. Herschel, to be delivered to her on her return from

the Cape

  If I only live long enough to have the assurance of your
Iall being well and safely got to the Cape, will lay down

my head in peace.

   My paper is not filled, but there is not time for writing

Imore, nor do like to think about the present ; but about
I Ia month ago began a day-book again, which was in the

I ....habit of keeping when in England, and with the contents of
that intend to fill my posthumous letter to you.

God bless you, my dear niece               and with my love

Ito my dear nephew and yourself,
                                  remain,

              Your most affectionate aunt,

                                           Car. Herschel.

              TO PROFESSOR SCHUMACHER

Dear Sir, --                               Dec. 11, 1833.

I By recollecting your former obliging kindness to me,
   am encouraged once more to intrude on your valuable

time  by transcribing part of  m10ythne:p--he"wT'shelalsatstleptrtoeor,f  dated
from  Portsmouth, November                                                sheet
Iof my nebulro paper left my hands the night left London,
Iand yesterday got twelve copies to take to the Cape. One

will be forwarded to you to-morrow by Lieut. Stratford,
    Chap. VI.]  To Professor Schumacher.                           261

    R.N., superintendent of the " Nautical Almanac," who will
    send it to Prof. Schumacher, to whom, if you do not soon

    it,
    get pray write.         have also ordered                    duplicate to be
                       II
    sent you by Mr. Hudson, assistant secretary of the RoyalI

    Society, and librarian, who will henceforward send you allif

    my papers (in duplicate). My observations on the satel   is a

    lites of Uranus, which confirm my brother's results, were

    sent to be put in course of publication last night."

Ia I  have no doubt but that you, Sir, are in correspondence

    with the above named, but to me unknown, gentlemen, and
    that those two copies intended for me are only enclosed in

    packet with many for yourself.

      long much to see the observations on the Georgian

    satellites, but doubt their being ready to come with the

    paper on nebulse.  beg you will order them to be for

    warded to me as soon as you see them yourselves, for

I     do not flatter myself with the hopes of being much longer

    for this world, but will be thankful life spared me till

    the end of April, when   hope to receive the assurance of

    my nephew's safe arrival with his dear family at the Cape.

    Excuse my troubling you so far, and believe me with

    great regard, dear Sir,

                Your much obliged and humble servant,
                                                         C. Herschel.
CHAPTER VII.

SIB JOHN HEBSCHEL AT THE CAPE.

                  Cape Town, Jan. 21, 1834.

My dear Aunt, --

Here we are safely landed and comfortably housed at

the far end of Africa, and having secured the landing and

I Ifinal stowage of all the telescopes and other matters, as far

as can see, without the slightest injury, lose no time in

reporting to you our good success so far. M. and the

Ichildren are, thank God, quite well; though, for fear you

should think her too good a sailor, ought to add that she

continued sea-sick, at intervals, during the whole passage.

We were nine weeks and two days at sea, during which

phBaeisdrcioaadybwr(iewskheixcbphreerewiezenecne"edvriegrohntelynatfeotrne"ed)adllatyothoetfhewcaoy"ntcfrraaolrmmy  wind. We
                                                                                                                    the Bay of
                                                                                                                     latitudes,"

that is to say, to the space about five or six degrees broad

near the equator, where the trade winds cease, and where it

is no unusual thing for a ship to lie becalmed for a month

or six weeks, frying under a vertical sun. Such, however,

was not our fate. We were detained only three or four days

by the calms usual in that zone, but never quite still, or

driven out of our course, and immediately on crossing "the

line," got a good breeze (the south-east trade wind), which
carried us round Trinidad, then exchanged it for a north

west wind, which, with the exception of one day's squall

from the south-east, carried us straight into Table Bay.

On the night of the 14th we were told to prepare to see the

Table Mountain. Next morning (N.B., we had not seen
Chap, vii.] Sir John Herschel at the Cape.                 263

land       b"efloarned "sinwcaes  leaving England),         at dawn the welcome
word                              heard, and there         stood this magnificent

hill, with all its attendant mountain range down to the

farthest point of South Africa, full in view, with a clear blue

ghost-like outline, and that night we cast anchor within the

Bay. Next morning early we landed under escort of Dr.

Stewart, M.'s brother, and you may imagine the meeting.

IWe took up our quarters at a most comfortable lodging-

house (Miss Babe's), and proceeded, without loss of time,

to unship the instruments. This was no trifling operation,

as they filled (with the rest of our luggage) fifteen large

tbhoeats"  ; and,  owing          to the     difficulty  of getting them up from
           hold "  of the          ship,     required    several days to complete

the landing. During the whole time (and indeed up to this

moment) not a single south-east gale, the summer torment

of this harbour, has occurred. This is a thing almost un

heard of here, and has indeed been most fortunate, since

otherwise it is not at all unlikely that some of the boats,

laden as they were to the water's edge, might have been lost,

and the whole business crippled.

For the last two or three days we have been looking at

houses, and        have           all  but   agreed   for  oofneto, wan,mocasltledbea"uTtihfuel
place within        four          or   five  miles   out

Grove." In point of situation, it is a perfect paradise, in

rich and magnificent mountain scenery, and sheltered from

all winds, even the fierce south-easter, by thick surrounding
Iwoods.
           must reserve for my next all description of the

gorgeous display of flowers which adorns this splendid

country, as well as of the astonishing brilliancy of the con

stellations, which the calm, clear nights show off to great

advantage ; and wishing we had you here to see them, must

conclude with best loves from M. and the children.

                                  Your affectionate nephew,

                                                    J. F. W. Herschel.
264 Caroline Lucretia HerscJul.          [i83*>

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dear Nephew, --  Brausschweiger Stuasse, No. 376,
                                                           May I, 1834.

Your precious letter relieved me on the 14th from a

Iwhole twelvemonth's anxiety, for it was in April last year

when, by your few brief lines on business, saw that you

Iwere seriously preparing for leaving Europe, and from that

time became in idea a vagrant accompanying you through

all the fatigues of preparing for such a momentous under
taking. And if it had not been for the consoling letter of
your brother [in law] James, and one from Miss B. giving
me an account of the carefully arranged accommodation with
Iwhich they saw you depart, should not have known how
Ito support myself till saw your dear letter, which brought
Ime even more comfort than could hope you would have
...found time to think of.
                            .

   Both yourself and my dear niece urged me to write often,

Iand to write always twice ; but alas ! could not overcome
Ithe reluctance felt of telling you that it is over with me,

for getting up at eight or nine o'clock, dressing myself,

eating my dinner alone without an appetite, falling asleep

over a novel (I am obliged to lay down to recover the fatigue
of the morning's exertions) awaking with nothing but the

prospect of the trouble of getting to bed, where very seldom

I get above two hours' sleep. It is enough to make a
I Iparson swear ! To this must add found full employment
Ifor the few moments, when could rouse myself from a

melancholy lethargy, to spend in looking over my store of

astronomical and other memorandums of upwards of fifty

years collecting, and destroying all what might produce

nonsense when coming through the hands of a Block-kopft"

in the Zeitungen.

My dear friends, Mrs. and Miss Beckedorflf, are assisting
Chap, vii.]           Arrival at the Cape.  265

me in my final preparations for going to that bourn from

whence none ever returned, but let me hope that you, my

dear nephew, with my dear niece and the whole of your

young family, will return to your dear relatives and friends

after having seen all your wishes and expectations crowned

Iwith success. Though, if may not be among those who
Iwill greet your return, can assure you their number will

be great, judging from the sensation the account of your

safe  arrival at the  Cape   has   ciatu) se"dtheamwohngolealilntoeullrigefrnietndansd;
and                          have
      (as Dr. M        will

scientific world in general are participating in our feeling."
IPoor Mrs. Beckedorff, to whom
                                   read your letter, sat
Itrembling and crying for joy ; for now find that my friends

had not been without fear for your safety on account of the

storms (and their sad consequences) which prevailed for a
long time immediately after your departure, and the same

evening a note was despatched to her Royal Highness the

                             the news ; for from the Duke's

                             constant inquiries when ex
                             knew the account of your safe
Landgrafin to communicate

Iand her Royal Highness's
Ipected to hear from you,

arrival would give pleasure.
             ###**

  IThe feelings of joy experienced the first few days after
Ithe arrival of your letter are nearly evaporated, and begin

to feel already that the essential information required for

Imaking me reconciled to the immense space which divides

me from you is still wanting ; which is, that cannot now,

as formerly, receive so frequent accounts concerning the
health of my dear niece and the children, not even from

... IMiss B., who used to describe their little ways so prettily,
for she, too, cannot now observe them.      look with im

patience for the next account .    of the health of my

Idear niece, yours, and the dear little beings. Caroline and

Isabella and are old friends, but is William Herschel the
266 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                  [1834.

second likely to live (if not beyond) at least to the age of

his grandfather ?            the  " Gottingsche  Gelehrte
   Perhaps you will receive

Anzeigen" of 16th and 19th December, 1833, containing

what is said of your book on Natural Philosophy (by Gauss

they say).

God bless you all, and believe, my dear nephew,

            Ever your most affectionate aunt,

                                  Oak. JIerschel.

FROM J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear. Aunt, --                 Fbldhausen, June 6, 1834.

          The twenty-foot has been in activity ever since the

Iend of February, and, as have now got the polishing appa

Iratus erected and three mirrors (one of which mean to
Ikeep constantly polishing) the sweeping gets on rapidly.

Ihad hardly begun regular sweeping, when discovered two

beautiful planetary nebulae, exactly like planets, and one of
Ia fine blue colour.
                      have not been unmindful of your hint
Iabout Scorpio, am now rummaging the recesses of that

constellation and find it full of beautiful globular clusters.

IA few evenings ago lighted on a strange nebulae, of which

I Ihere is a figure ! and since am about it shall add a figure

of one of the resolvable nebulae in the greater magellanic

cloud. The equatorial is at last erected, and the revolving

Iroof (upon a plan of my own) works perfectly well, but

am sorry to say that the nights in which it can be used to

advantage are rare, even rarer than in England, as, in spite

of the clearness of the sky, the stars are ill-defined and ex

Icessively tremulous. But a truce to astronomical details !

though from time to time shall continue to plague you
Chap, vii.]    The Landgravine of Hesse.  267

with them      Farewell; M. desires to add her

kindest regards to those of

                            Your affectionate nephew,

                                     J. F. W. Herschel.

   The following letters from the Princesses of Hesse
and Dessau afford a pleasing memorial of the kind and
affectionate interest which they lost no opportunity of
expressing in Miss Herschel and her family.

      I Hanover, June 10, 1834.
              yesterday received the enclosed note from my niece,

I Ithe Dowager Duchess of Anhalt Dessau, but felt too unwell

to send it as could not write, which wished to do, to

thank you also for your great kindness about the book.
IMy niece writes in extasies with your good nature.
                                                         am

glad to learn from our dear Sophy Beckedorff that you are
Ipretty well.
               trust to be well enough soon to see you, but
I am still weak and unlike myself. It gave me very great

Ipleasure to learn that you have had fresh accounts of your

nephew, who, pray God, may be prosperous in all his very

Iinteresting and valuable undertakings.
      am happy of having this opportunity of assuring you of

the sincerity of my regard.  Elise,

               The Dowager Landgravine of Hesse,

                             born Princess of England.

To Miss Caroline Herschel.

                                      [Enclosure.]

                                                                       Dessau, June 6, 1834.

          Miss Caroline Herschel finds here the expressions
of my utmost gratitude for the great kindness to give me
268 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                          [1834.

the so very interesting work of her nephew, the worthy

follower of a celebrated father.

   The gentleman here, a Mr. Schwabe, to whom it was
destined, looks with eager curiosity on the discoveries Mr.
Herschel will make in the new regions of heaven he is now
examining, and if she would be inclined, after receiving any

interesting news, to make communication of I6                            would
                                                  I it,
always be accepted with the best thanks of
                                                   Fredrica, it

Miss Caroline Hehschel.    Duchess of Anhalt Dessau.                    a

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR F. W. HERSCHEL.
                                   I J.
My dearest Nephew, --                       Sept. 11, 1834.
                                        1
....Your welcome letter of June            received on the

19th August  and know not how to thank you
             I

                        I
sufficiently for the cheering account you give of the climate

agreeing so well with you and all who are so dear to me, and

....that you find all about you so agreeable and comfortable,
            so that have nothing left to wish for but con
tinuation of the same, and that may only live to see the

handwriting of your dear Caroline, though have my

doubts about lasting till then, for the thermometer standing

80° and 90° for upwards of two months, day and night, in

my rooms (to which am mostly confined) has made great
havoc in my brittle constitution.a
         ?)                                beg you will look "to           it

that she learns to make her figures as you will find them inis I
your father's MSS., such as he taught me to make. The

daughter of mathematician must write plain figures.

My little grand-nephew making alliance with your work

men shews that he taking after his papa.   I                  see you now

in idea (memory running about in petticoats among your

father's carpenters, working with little tools of your own,

and John Wiltshire (one of Pitt's men, whom you may
Chap. Vii.]         A Hole in the Sky.                    269

Iperhaps                            " Dang the boy, if   he can't
                                                          that he
drive in                             but pray take care
remember), crying out,       "
a nail as well as can !

does not come to harm, and in your next tell me something

Iof our little Isabella, too.

      thank you for the astronomical portion of your letter,

Iand for your promise of future accounts of uncommon

objects. It is not clusters of stars want you to discover

in the body of the Scorpion (or thereabout), for that does

Inot answer                                             once heard

your father,                                             " Hier ist
             my expectation, remembering having
               after a long awful silence, exclaim,
                                     "*
wahrhaftig   ein  Loch  im  Himmel       and,  as       said before,
                                    !

stopping afterwards at the same spot, but leaving it unsatis

Ified, &c                    was, for the last time, unfortu
    About two months ago

nately, at the theatre, when Professor Schumacher and the

I IChevalier Kessel, of Danneburg, called on me. As soon as
came home           sent a note of invitation for the next

levening, but had one returned informing me of their leaving

Hanover next morning, and a promise of coming perhaps

I I Inext summer. But hear Struve is coming, and hope

shall get a sight of him. The Emperor of Russia and the

King of Denmark are cramming their observatories with

Iastronomical instruments, &c, of all descriptions, made,

*****believe, some of them by Hohenbaum
ITo my dear niece beg you to give my best love and

thanks for the kind arrangement to indemnify me for the

loss of her dear letters, by charging her brother to inform
me of all they know, &c, which, thank God, is hitherto of

the most comforting nature.

IWith the most heartfelt wishes for the continuance of the
health of you all,                       remain, &c, &c,

                                               C. Herschel.

                  * Here, indeed, is a hole in heaven.

                                                                      ^
270 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                                [isss.

      FROM J. F. "W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                                                 Fbldhausbn, C. G. H., Feb. 22, 1835.

           »****

      IFor nvy own part never enjoyed such good health in
I IEngland as have done since came here. The first

coming on of the hot season affected me a little (odd enough
with colds and rheumatisms), but it soon went off.

The stars continue to be propitious, and the nights which

Ifollow a shower, or a "black south-easter," are the most
observing nights it is possible to imagine.                have swept

well over Scorpio, and have many entries in my sweeping

books of the kind you describe, viz., blank space in the
heavens without the smallest star. For example : --

R.A.  16h 15m-- N.P.D. 113° 5ff-- a field without the smallest star.
              ,, 116 3 -- Antares (a Scorpii.)
  ,,  16 19
  ,,
  ,,  16 23   ,, 114 25 to 214° 5'-- fields entirely void of stars.
  ,,
      16 26   ,, 114 14 not a star 16m-- Nothing !

      16 27   ,, 114 0  ,, as far as 114° Iff.

and so on. Then come on the globular clusters, then more

blank fields, then suddenly the Milky Way comes on as here
                                                           29, 1834) : --
des"cr1ib7ehd28(mfr,om114m° y27sw'.--eepTh4e74M, Jiulklyy                  in  large
                                                           Way comes on

milky nebulous irregular patches and banks, with few stars

Iof visible magnitude, after a succession of black fields and
extremely rare stars above 18th magnitude.                                 do not

remember ever to have seen the Milky Way so decidedly

nebulous, or, indeed, at all so, before."

Altogether the constitution of the Milky Way in its whole

Iextent, from Scorpio to Argo Navis, is extremely curious and
interesting.  have already collected a pretty large cata

logue of southern nebulae, for the most part hitherto un

observed, but my most remarkable object is a fine planetary

nebula of a beautiful greenish-blue colour, a full and intense
Chap, vii.] Sir John Herschel at the Cape.        271

tint (not as when one says Lyra is a bluish star, &c), but a

positive and evident blue, between indigo-blue and verditer

green. It is about 12" in diameter, exactly round, or a

very little elliptic, and quite as sharply denned as a planet.

Its place is llh 42m R.A., and 146° 14' N.P.D. My review

Ifor double stars goes on in moonlight nights, and among

them may mention y Lupi and e Chameleontis as among

Ithe closest and most interesting.
       have been hunting for Halley's comet by Hunker's

Ephemeris in Taurus, but without success, though in the

I Ifinest sky, quite dark, and with a newly-polished mirror.

(By the way, should mention that have not had the

least difficulty in my polishing work, and my mirrors are
Inow more perfect than at any former time since have used
Ithem.) My last comet hunt was Feb. 18.
                                            shall, how

ever, continue to look out for it. Pray mention this to

Schumacher, who is Runker's next door neighbour.

MISS HERSCHEL TO A. DE MORGAN, ESQ., SECRETARY OF
                     ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.

Sir, --                                 March 9, 1835.

I return you many thanks for your communication of

being chosen an Honorary Member of the Royal Astro

nomical Society, and beg you will do me the favour to

convey my most heartfelt thanks to the honourable gentle

men of the Council for conferring so great an honour on

Ime ; and only regret that at the feeble age of 85 have no

hope of making myself deserving of the great honour of

seeing my name joined with that of the much distinguished

IMrs. Somerville.
      beg you will believe me to remain, with great regard,

         Sir, your most respectful and

         obliged humble servant,

         Caroline Herschel.
272 Caroline Lucretta HerscJiel.  [1885.

MISS HERSCHEL TO F. BAILY, ESQ.

Dear Sir, --  Hanover, April 2, 18S5.

      I feel very great gratification at recollecting that some
Itwenty years ago had the pleasure of being present when

you were conversing at Slough with my dear brother, for

Iit encourages me to address you now as an old friend, and

might almost say my only one, for death has not spared me

Ione of those valuable men of the last century in whose

society had an opportunity of spending many happy hours,

Iwhen they came to pass an astronomical night at Bath,

Datchet, Clay Hall, and Slough. And should now in the

absence of my nephew (who would in my name have pro

Iperly answered your kind letter for me) been much at a loss

how to reply to yours of March 17. But hope, dear Sir,

you will have the goodness to return my sincere thanks to

the Council of the Society for voting me a complete copy of

Itheir Memoirs. But, considering my advanced age and

declining health, think it best not to havo them sent over

to me, for it would cause me much uneasiness to leaVe them

in the hands of those who could neither read nor understand

them.

  I suppose my nephew must have himself a complete copy
Iof the Memoirs ; but, if not, beg you will give them to

him, along with my love, as a keepsake from his affec

tionate and grateful aunt, the first opportunity you have to

see him on his return.

   Your kind information of the work with which you are at
present engaged, touches a string which it has caused me
no small trouble to silence ; for whenever my thoughts
return to those two or three years of which every moment

that could be spared from other immediate astronomical
business was, by my brother's desire, allotted for com
Chap, vii.]    Catalogues of Stars.                     273

I·paring each star of the British Catalogue with their obser

vations in that incorrect edition of 1725, feel always sorry
that want of time, and, perhaps, want of ability too, must

have been the cause of leaving many incorrections unno

ticed. The work, however, was solely intended for the use

-of my brother, who valued Flamsteed as an observer too

much to have made use of any other but the British Cata

logue for determining the places of his newly-discovered

objects. N.B. We ought to remember that till the year

1790 and 1800, when Wollaston's and Bode's Catalogues

appeared, we had no other to go by, for those of Piazzi and

several other excellent observers were then not generally

Iknown.                  ought to take leave of this to me inte
   But, dear Sir,

resting subject ; for finding, about eight years since, that>

on account of the failure of my eyes and wretched health in
Igeneral, should be unable to make further use of Flam-
Isteed's works,
                   gave the three volumes, along with the

Atlas, Catalogue of Omitted Stars, &c, to the Observatory

Iof Gottingen, all marked throughout with what corrections
   knew of at that time ; thinking they might be of use to

the observer there, and relieve me besides from the fear of

leaving them where they could not be appreciated, or an

attempt be made to comment on them, and perhaps have

Imade bad worse.
      wish (but almost fear life will not be spared me so long)
to see your new edition of the British Catalogue, therefore

Ibeg you will favour me with a copy as early as possible.

never knew that there was a Biograplry of Flamsteed's

existing, and trust you will favour me with the same as soon

as you can.

    xVny small parcels of astronomical papers will come to me

by  favour of  hHiesrr"  Schumacher  in Altona, who  is so kind as
to                       Astronom.   Nachrichten "   regularly for
    send me

                                                     T
274 Caroline Lucrelia Herschel.                                [1835.

my amusement. And if you could send me the names of

the President and of the gentlemen of the present Council,

Iit would greatly oblige me.

       hope you will pardon my having intruded so long on
your time, but it has ever been my fault to be tedious in
expressing my thoughts on paper ; but will now only add

Ithat, with great esteem and regard,
                               remain, my dear Sir,

                                         Your humble servant,

                                             Caroline Herschel.

FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                                     Royal Hospital, Chelsea,

IDear Madam, --            pleasure  in availing  April 16, 1835.
             have sincere
                                                  myself of the

opportunity of writing to you which the Astronomical

Society of London has afforded me, by placing my name in

the number of Honorary Members, and greatly adding to

Ithe value of that distinction by associating my name with

yours, to which have looked up with so much admiration.
   My object in writing is to request that you will accept

of a copy of my book on the Connexion of the Physical

Sciences, which is offered with great deference, having

Ibeen written for a very different class of readers.
      am proud of the friendship of your nephew, the worthy

Ison of such a father, who is succeeding so well in his
glorious undertaking at the Cape.    have seen a letter of

the 27th January, when they were all well and prospering.

Iremain, dear Madam,

                           With sincere esteem,

                                     Very truly yours,
                                            Mary Somerville.
Chap, vii.]               Letters.                     275

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dearest Niece, --      »,                 April 23, 1835.
        **                          **

Your own dear letter arrived containing such a

volume of joyful news, conveyed in the most kindest expres

sions, as if chosen for the purpose to cheer the heart of

feeble age.

  I I Iwas then not able (nor am
                              so now) to thank you as

could wish for your sparing so much of your valuable time

and strength for the purpose of making me a partaker of
jour domestic happiness.

I have now received in all five letters, two by your own

hands, and three by my nephew. Each time after having

read them over again they are put by, under thanksgiving

to the Almighty, with a prayer for future protection.
.... Writing to my absent friends is one of the most
Ilaborious employments    could fly to when under bodily
Iand, of course, mental sickness, for it is not impossible

might, instead of making inquiry about my little precious

Igrand-nephew and the young ladies who play, sing, and sew

so prettily, write, "O! my back. 0! have the cramp
here, there, &c"

  I had intended to keep a day-book to note down how and
Iwhere spent my time, and what was passing about me,

Iwhich was to have served for yours and my nephew's amuse

ment some day or other. But this have given up long

since, for seeing nothing but lapses of weeks and months

Iwhere could have given no better account of myself than
Ithat, after the fatigue of getting up and dressing, fell asleep

on the sofa, with a newspaper or other uninteresting sub

Iject in my hands, this would only have put me in mind of

the useless life am leading now.

                                                                      t2
27G Caroline Lucrelia Hersc/tel.  [iS35.

  IBut within the last two months have been obliged to

exert myself once more to answer two letters, one to Mr.

IDe Morgan, the Secretary of the Royal Astronomical Society,

the other to Mr. Baily (who suppose is President), for
they have been pleased to choose me, along with Mrs.

Somerville, to be a member (God knows what for) of their
Society. This, and receiving visits of congratulation (for
congratulate they must about all they find--what they call
promotion --in the zeitungen) has really somewhat disturbed
Ime, though Captain Miiller and Mr. Hausmann
                                              am
Ialways glad to see ; with them can talk about my nephew,

for they know him personally, and admire him. The winter

Ielse has passed away rather heavily, because the Landgriiftn

not being here, had no other opportunity for seeing any

Ithing to put me in mind of England, but going to eight or

ten concerts, and those, ill or well, never missed, for there

I was always sure to be noticed by the Duke of Cambridge
I Ias his countrywoman (and that is what want, will be no

Hanoverian and then inquiries are made about my nephew
             !),
                 ;
and his family even the little princess, twelve years old,

who sometimes when there, comes to give me her hand,

asking  iIf  have had any letters from the Cape but now
                       I

                             is

                                     a
                                           ;

                                    II
                                        I
have seen the last of them, for the family go to England,

and will be absent for many months, and where may be

when they return But Sunday night sat full hour on
                    ?

the sofa with the Duke at Mrs. Beckedorff's, where go

Sundays from seven to nine, where there nobody but the

female part of Mrs. B.'s family, and another old lady, who
was absent on account of being not well. Of this our meet

ing the good Duke knew all along, and good-naturedly came

to join our gossip.

Here have filled my paper with talking of nothing but my
I
    I
                 I
self, because know that my nephew corresponds with all scien

tific men in Europe, for hear frequently of extracts having
Chaf. vii]  Newton and Flamsteed.  277

appeared in the papers (of his communications) by Strove,

ILittrow, &c, and should suppose he will also know what is

done at our Society, of which now am a fellow ! and is of
course acquainted with what Mr. Baily mentioned in his

letter to me, that at the public expense a new edition of
Flamsteed's work is now in print, and that papers have

been found at the Royal Society containing a biography by
IFlamsteed's own hands, which --but here transcribe what
"IMr. B. writes: --
                     lament very much, in common with

every friend of science, that Newton's name is mixed up

with transactions that show him in a different light from
that in which we have generally received his character. But

justice to Flamsteed's memory would not allow me to sup

Ipress any portion of his autobiography."
   Now we talk of biographies, have no less than nine of

my poor brother, and heard of two more, one by Zach,

Iwhich shall try to get sight of. There is but one or two

which are bordering on truth, the rest being stuff, not worth

Iwhile to fret about. The best is accompanied with a minia

ture of Reberg's bad copy ; but have ordered a lithograph

Icopy to be taken from the portrait by Artaud ; if it turns out

correct will send two copies as soon as they come out.
   God bless you both, and the dear children, my best

niece.  *****Ever your most affectionate aunt,
                                                   Car. Herschel.

             MISS HERSCHEL TO P. STEWART, ESQ.*
                                                                                   May 25, 1835.
  ILet the time come whenever it may please God, leave

   * A brother of Lady Herschel's. This gentleman and his brothers were
in the habit of writing to Miss Herschel during her nephew's absence at the
Cape, keeping her informed of the latest news, and showing her every kind and
thoughtful attention.
278 Caroline Lucretia HcrscJicl.  [1S35.

cash enough behind to clear me from all and any obligations
to all who here do know me. Even the expenses of a re

spectable funeral lie ready to enable my friend Mrs. Becke-
dorff, and one of my nieces (the widow of Amptmann Knip-
ping,* who lately came to settle at Hanover) to fulfil my
directions.

  I hope you will pardon my troubling you with such dole
Iful subjects, but wish to show you that my income is by
Ione third more than have the power to spend, for by a
I Itwelve years' trial find that cannot get rid of more than

600 thl. = £100 per year, without making myself ridi

culous.

MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dearest Niece, --  Hanover, August 6, 1835.

      I dare not wait any longer for a return of better
Ispirits, such as in which should like to reply to my

nephew's dated February 22nd, and yours of May 19th, for

I Ifear if do not at least acknowledge the receipt of them,
I shall not be gladdened again by such delightful descrip

tions of your health and healthful situation, and my

nephew's contentment with the successful progress he is

making in his intended observations.

  IAt first, on reading them, could turn wild, but this is
Ionly a flash, for soon fall in a reverie of what my dear

nephew's father would have felt if such letters could have

been directed to him, and cannot suppress my wish that his

life instead of mine had been spared until this present mo

ment ; for what immense and wonderful discoveries have

   * This lady, the daughter of Dietrich Herschcl, proved a most true, affec
tionate, and trustworthy friend to the last. See her letter on Hiss Herschcl's
death.
Chap, vii.]  Present of Constantia.   279

not been made within these thirteen years, chiefly by his

Iown son, or son's suggestion !

   But must stop here and turn to more earthly and

Iindifferent subjects (though they ought not to be called

indifferent neither), for in the first place have to return

my thanks for no less than three dozen of Constantia wine,

Ibut this shall do but with a very bad grace, for ever since
I Ithe 11th of May, when received my nephew's letter, have

been in the fidgets about the trouble he and his friends

Imust have had before such a thing could reach me
  feel more reconciled after unburdening myself of some of

this weighty concern by making presents to all who love

and esteem you so truly, and after setting apart a portion,

according to Captain Muller's advice, with which you

may be treated when at your return you may perhaps visit

IHanover again, there remains more than ever can get
Ithrough with, for am very desirous to spin out the thread
Iof my life till you return home. And know it is a mis

taken notion that old folks want more of what they call
*****wish for
oomfort than young ones. It is not very easy to find out
                                         I, for instance,
Iwhat will convey comfort in general
                                      derive from yours
know of no other comforts like those

and my dear niece's letters. Her last leaves me nothing to

   You compliment me on having a steady hand, but if you

I Iwere to see the blotting make before can make it hang
Itogether (when am composing, as it were, a letter) you

would not say so, and, after all, it will cause you some

Itrouble to understand me, for the letter begins to my dear

niece, and soon after find myself talking to you
280 Caroline Lncretia Herschel.               [issir.

SIR J. F. V. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Beau Aunt, --           Fellkausen, Oct. 21, 1S35.

The last accounts we have of you are that you are

elected a member of the Astronomical Society, and that to

keep you in countenance, and prevent your being the only

lady among so many gentlemen, you have for a colleague

and sister member, Mrs. Somerville. Now this is well

imagined, and we were not a little pleased to hear it. May

Iyou'long enjoy your well-earned laurels !

   As presume our news will interest you more than com
ments upon what goes on in Europe, in the first place be it

known to you, that we are all well and, thank Heaven, happy.

The children, one and all, thrive uncommonly  The

stars go on very well, though for the last two months the

weather has been chiefly cloudy, which has hitherto pre

Ivented me seeing Halley's comet. Encke's (yours) escaped

me, owing to trees and the Table Mountain, though cut

away a good gap in our principal oak avenue to get at it.

However, Maclear, at the Observatory, succeeded in getting

three views of it with the fourteen-foot Newtonian of my

Iffather's (the Glasgow telescope) on the 14th, 19th, and
(?) 24th of September.  you have an opportunity of
letting this become known to Encke, pray do so-- (I shall
write to him shortly myself). It was in or near the calcu

Ilated place, but no measures could be got.
       have now very nearly gone over the whole southern

heavens, and over much of it often. So that after another

season of reviewing, verifying, and making up accounts (re

Iducing and bringing in order the observations) we shall be

looking homewards. In short, have, to use a homely

phrase, broken the neck of the work, and my main object

now is to secure and perfect what is done, and get all ready
hap. TIL]      Duke of Cambridge.                         2S1

to begin printing the moment we arrive in England; or,

if that is not possible, at least to have no more calcula

tion to do

               FUOll H.B.H. THE DUKE OF CAMRRIDGE.

                                                                   Hanover, Nov. 19, 1835.

          The Duke of Cambridge hastens to acknowledge the
receipt of Miss Herschel's very obliging note, and to return
his many thanks for her attention in sending him some of
the Constantia she has lately received from her nephew.
He seizes this opportunity of assuring her of the satis
faction he felt at hearing that Mr. Herschel and his family
were in good health, and he sincerely hopes that the climate
of the Cape will agree with them.

           FRANCIS BAILY, TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                            37, Tavistocb Place, London,

IMy dear Madam, --          time  since,             Jan. 29, 1836.
            forwarded some                to Professor Schu

macher, a copy of my "Account of Flamsteed," to be sent
Ito you; and which he says was duly transmitted.
                                                          am

anxious to know whether it has arrived safe, for, as only a

limited number of copies were printed (which are all dis

Itributed) it cannot be purchased.
       have been the more desirous that you should have a

copj-, because there is no one that has taken so much pains

Ito elucidate and explain the works of Flamsteed as yourself,
and therefore  am bound in gratitude to see that you are

I Iput in possession of a copy of the work.
      shall take this opportunity of stating that hear occa

sionally from your nephew at the Cape of Good Hope, and

that the last accounts confirmed his continuance in good
282 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                               [1836.

health, and his enjoyment of the pleasures of the fine

climate in which he is placed.

  I remain, my dear madam, with the assurance of my best

respects, and my best wishes for your health and happiness,
                                    Your very obedient servant,

                                                        Francis Bally.

MISS HERSCHEL TO F. BAILY, ESQ.

IDear Sir, --                           Hanover, Feb. 15, 1836.
          am quite at a loss for terms  in which to apologize

for having neglected to acknowledge the receiving of your

valuable Catalogue and biography of our dear ill-used Flam-

steed, which was forwarded to me by the usual kindness and

punctuality of Prof. Schumacher on the 9th October last.

eTdhietiosnam"eOpnacthkeet  also contained Mrs. Somerville's  second
                            Connexion," &c, accompanied by
                                                              a kind

note, dated as far back as April 16th, which, to my sorrow,

is also still left unanswered on account of illness, and in the

hope that when the days are somewhat longer (my eyes fail

Ime), and that with the return of spring might perhaps
Iregain some small portion of strength--but doubt.

  IThe parcel also contained duplicates of my nephew's

second series, and on the satellites of Uranus, and must

trust that on his return he will convey my grateful thanks to

you, sir, and the gentlemen, for all the kind attention con

ferred on me during his absence. My last letter from the

ICape is dated October 24th, and am much gratified by

Iyour kindness in having informed my nephew of the wish

have that the volumes of the Royal Astronomical Society's

Ipublications voted to me might be kept for him, and he
seems much pleased with the arrangement.  therefore

would recommend them to your obliging care till his return.
Chai-. vii.]  Southern Stars.                      283

IThe volume of your " Account of Flamsteed " must be my

companion to the last, but will take care it shall be safely

If I I·delivered to my nephew.        must conclude with the
          will not lose another post

assurance of ever remaining with great regard,
                                  My dear Sir,

              Your much obliged and humble servant,
                                                      C. Herschel.

              SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

Dear Aunt,--                          March 8, 1836.

      IMaggie desires me to finish this for her, but she has

not left me room to write at length. So will only devote

I Ithis space to one point in your last letter which requires reply.
   have not got Gauss's apparatus, and am not sufficiently

acquainted with his method of observing to construct one for
myself. Besides which it is quite out of my power to under

take any extensive series of observations, being anxious to

get home, and having still so much to do, both in observa

Ition and reduction, that really shall hardly be able to ac
Icomplish all have already in hand. This comet [Halley's]
Ihas been a great interruption to my sweeps, and hope and
fear it may yet be visible another month. Unluckily when
I Isailed                  left all my volumes of Poggendorff
                         " behind me, and none of the former
and the
f"roNmacEhnrigclhatnedn
Iand very few of the latter have reached me here.
                                                   fear it
Iis now too late to send home for anything, and have two

series of observations, viz., of the comparative brightness

of the southern stars, and of the photometric estimation of
their magnitudes-- the former just commencing, the latter
Inot yet begun, which must do. Pray explain this to
IGauss
              Astronomical news have little, but one
28t Caroline Lucretia Herschel.           [1S3S.

Ithing very remarkable must tell you, y Virginia is now a

single star in both the twenty-foot and the seven -foot

equatorial ! ! !

                                      Your affectionate nephew,

                                     J. F. W. Herschel.

51ISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dearest Nephew, --                Hanover, June 29, 1S36.

I Ido not know where to begin, for see it is nearly a
Itwelvemonth since gave some account of myself, and in all
Ithat time never returned my thanks for the three letters
Ireceived
                have a great deal to say, and will begin
Iwith accounting for my long silence, by confessing that
have throughout the whole winter been too ill to do

anything besides nursing myself, and putting myself in a

Icondition to appear before strangers, which am not able

Ito do till after twelve or one at noon, and the time which

wanted to rest after my exertion and getting my breakfast

was generally taken up by pacifying the gulls about the

foolish paragraphs they had been reading the night before
Iin the Clubs.
                never read, or would read, any of them,
Ibut when heard of anything appearing rational concerning
I Iyou, copied or procured the paper for myself, and then
found among the rest a letter of yours to Professor Plana,

Iin Turin, dated December 28th, 1834. And not being able
to do anything of use to you myself,  begged Capt.

Miiller to cause those observations of June 21st, &c, to be

made by somebody here in Hanover, and the enclosed letter
I Iwill,
hope, meet with a gracious reception

believe Dr. Heere will not fail the next equinox to be at his

post, and you may hear more of him.

  ICapt. Miiller is at present with Gauss, and will deliver

all your messages personally, for you must know beware
Chap, vil.]     Her Brothers Portrait.                              285

Iof corresponding with all those known ones if can possibly

help it, and have through his hands sent copies of your

father's likeness to Strove, Schumacher, Gauss, Bessel,

Encke, Olbers, &c Gauss sent me word it was hung up in

his library. Encke sent me a very pretty letter of4thanks.

 .... That sending is an ugly thing. Mrs. Somerville

I.sent me her book with a letter dated April 16th, which

received October 9th, coming along with Mr. Baily's pub

lication, presented by the Lords Commissioners of the Admi

Iralty to Miss Herschel. You cannot think how agitated
Ifeel on such occasions, coming to me with such things ! --
an old poor sick creature in her dotage                   was going

Ito say something yet of Mr. Baily's labours, but the paper
is at an end ;  bSulotughhowpehatyotuhewi"ll    now soon   read in  your
own library at                                Quarterly   Review,"   No.

CIX., says, and what your Cambridge friend Whewell and
others have said -- in short, Newton remains Newton ! God

bless my dear nephew and niece ! . . . . My heart is too

Ifull -- can say no more than that

                      I am your affectionate aunt,

                                              Car. Herschel.

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dearest Niece, --                          Hanover, October 20, 1836.

From June 14 to October the 1st, and not any the

least account, was rather too much for me to bear, espe

cially during the months when those few friends who some

times cheer me by a friendly call had all left the town to

Imake summer excursions
      have a few memorandums for my nephew, and will for

the present take leave of my dear niece with my most heart-

Iielt wishes that every future account with which may yet

be blessed from her dear hand may be like the last.
286  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.     [1836-1837.

 ....* » *                           **
                                     of the "Astronom.
         I have four complete years
                                        I wished to give
Nachrichten " ready bound for you

you the number of the paper (but cannot find it again)

where Bessel speaks of Saturn's satellites, but my eyes are
I Iso dim, and am too unwell for doing anything.
                                                       will

therefore only say he has seen the 6th but not the 7th, the

ring being in the way. In No. 293, two of Bessel's assist

ants, Beer and Mueller, say a great deal about the observa
Itions of your father, but that goes all for nothing.
                                                       will

only say in general that he did in one season more than any

one else could have done, and would have resumed the

hunt the next fifteen years if nothing had interfered. And

the Georgium Sidus was followed as long as anything could

be obtained from that planet, and it will yet be some twenty

years before he will be in that favourable situation in the

ecliptic where he was at the time when the satellites were

Idiscovered.
        have seen Struve's Catalogue of Double Stars,
Iwherein

Ivations
     find he agrees with your and your father's obser
             Do not think, my dear nephew, that

would expose myself so as to say a word about these things

It;1 anybody else, but to you cannot help letting it out
Iwhen am nettled.

  I Imust leave off gossiping, else shall not get this letter

*****Iaway, in which you will find Dr. H.'s barometrical observa

tions, which received a few days ago
     SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear Aunt, --  Cape of Good Hope, Jan. 10, 1837.

      I am now at work on the spots in the sun, and the

general subject of solar radiation, which you know occu
Chap, vii.]                   Spots in the Sun.                          287

pied a large portion of my father's attention. The present
is an admirable opportunity for studying these things, as

Ithe sun is infested now with spots to a greater degree thana

ever knew and they are arranged over its surface in ais
                     it,
manner singularly interesting and instructive. The sky
here so pure and clear in our summer that would be

   shame to neglect such an opportunity of making experi
ments on heat, and accordingly have been occupied in
the December solstice in determining the constant of solar
                              I

                                                     it

                                                                a
                                                                            a
radiation, that to say, the absolute quantity of heat sent
                          is

down to the earth's surface from the sun at noon, or at

vertical incidence.

do not think have ever mentioned to you remark
I
              I

able and splendid instance of liberality on the part of His

Grace of Northumberland, who has taken upon himself to

defray the expenses of publishing my observations at the

Cape, and that in               manner the    m"osmty  delicate   and consi
derate imaginable.                                      book "   will appear,
it                            In consequence

                          a                                              will
when does appear, under his auspices, and hope
                                                       is I
                                                                     it
not do discredit to his munificence. This not the only,

nor the most remarkable, instance however, of his attach

ment to the cause of science, and his disposition to pro

mote and support it.

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

....                                                                              March ZO, 1837.

                          have for the last five months been in con
             I
                    I I is

                           I

                                                a is

                                                aI
tinued fear of losing Mrs. Beckedorff (to whom could

confide all my grievances). She               worn out with cough

and breaking up of constitution, and we but seldom can

come together, which when am able to cross the street

to go to her                  experience daily increase of pain

and feebleness, so that am (at least during this severe
288 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                 [1S37.

weather) totally confined to my solitary home ; and what is
worse, my eyes will not serve me to amuse myself with

Ireading. But what business had to live so very long ?

FROM SIR J. F. A\r. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

.... I Feldhausen, May 7, 1S3".
            will try to entertain you with some celestial

affairs in which it is delightful to find you still taking so

much interest. As you allude to Saturn's satellites in your

I Iletter of October 20, must tell you that have at last got

Idecisive observations of the sixth satellite (the farthest of
my father's new ones).  had all but given the search up

in despair, when no longer ago than last Tlmrsday (May 4th

inst.), being occupied in taking measures of the angles of

position of the five old satellites with the twenty-foot and a

polished new mirror, behold, there stood Mr. Sixth ! a little

                                     foil.

Ishort of its preceding elongation.  have kept it well in

sight from 14h 26'" Sid. T. till 16h 3501, in which time it had

advanced visibly in its orbit from bdoro, the line of the
                        Ansa? (as in figure) to above. In

                        this interval the planet had

                        moved over fully one diameter of

the body towards the preceding side, and, therefore, had
Ciiap. VII.]                           Saturn'               289

it been a star, must have passed over
                                       5,
                                                    it,
                                                                      it

                                                                                                                                :
                                                whereas preserved

the same apparent distance all the while from the edge of the

ring. (N.B. Saturn not very far from the zenith on merid.)
   Next night, Friday, May Saturn most gloriously seen

<mite as sharp as any copper-plate engraving, with power

240 and full aperture. All the five old satellites seen and

measiu-ed, being now on the opposite side. Now consider

ably short of its greatest following elongation distance just
                                                          ;

as before and, as on Thursday, was kept in view long
it                                     it
             ;                            it

               a
enough for Saturn to have left behind by its own motion
had been star. The change of situation agrees perfectly

with the peiiod 1(I 9h, which also the reason why was
                                       is                    it, it
                                                                    is
not seen May 5th, being on that night near its inferior con
junction. So this at last thing made out. As for No.
I                                      a
      I
                                                     it,
           I

                                 a is
Seven have no hope of ever seeing it.

  If your eyesight will not suffer from do write to Bessel.

  am sure he will be interested by this observation, as he

the only astronomer who troubles himself about the system

of Saturn.        shall myself write to him shortly about but

should like to have few more observations.

So now farewell once more, and, with many kind remem

brances to all Hanoverian friends,

              Believe me, your affectionate nephew,

                                             J. Heuschel.
290 Caroline Lticretia Herschcl.                                  [is3r.

MISS HEHSCHEL TO SIIi JOHN HEKSCHEL.

.... I* * *                                    Hanoveu,  Juncll,  1837.
            From Mr. Schumacher                    »
                                                               *

                                               receive each paper as it

comes from the press, but always with a feeling of uneasi

ness, because I am not one of those who can contribute

anything to their valuable communications, nor even under

Istand all which my defective eyes allow me to read. But

they interest me exceedingly when think what you will

say. For    i"nsUtabnecre,detnoEainpfalupsesr  of twenty-two quarto pages,
                                               der Unregelmassigkeiten der
by Bessel,

Erde, auf geodetische Arbeiten und ihre Vergleichung mit
den astronomischen Bestimmungen." * Perhaps you may

have received these papers before this reaches you, but if

I Iany are lost by the way, collect them for you ; but fear
I shall not see the day of all the wonders coming to light

when you return with your budget

 .... I must conclude, for writing at any time makes

Ime sad ; and since began this letter the notice of the death

of our King has arrived, and the Duke of Cumberland has

been this day proclaimed King of Hanover. It makes me

Ifeel as if was doubly separated from England, for your

King is now no longer my King. And we lose the Duke of

Cambridge, who was ever so kind to me wherever he saw

me. Last winter he introduced me to his brother, then

*·*·**Duke of Cumberland, who was here on a visit, at the

Iconcert, who spoke to me of you first as my son, but recol

lected himself that was only aunt
                                                                                 *

  I had illuminated my front rooms with twenty candles

I(snuffed them all myself, for Betty was out to see the show)

on the evening of the King's arrival, and so shall again

   * " On the Influence of the Irregularities of the Earth on Geodetic Orienitions,

aml their Comparison with Astronomical Determinations."
Chap, vii.] Sir John Herschel's Return.            29 1

...I.next Saturday or Sunday, when the Queen is expected.

More cannot do ! . . . .
                My head becomes crowded with melancholy fore
bodings of my not lasting so long as to hear of your safe

Ireturn to your home and the friends which think are only

to be found in happy England ; so, instead of tracing my
Igloomy imaginations on paper, go to sleep till Betty rouses
Ime with a cup of coffee
                 But all hear of you is

told in a tone of admiration, &c, &c, and it is felt by me

like a drop of oil supplying my expiring lamp.

J. F. W. HEUSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                 CArs of Good Hope,

My dear Aunt,--                                 Sq,t. 7, 1837.

#^               #- #                           #
I need hardly say how much we are rejoiced to see

your handwriting once more, though that joy is damped

by your complaints of winter indisposition. And such a

winter! by all accounts. May this prove a better! and

may we hope to find you in no worse health and spirits when

we come to see you next summer in Hanover. For so, if it

please God to lead us safe home, according to our present

Ialtered plans, we most assuredly propose to do.
       say our altered plans, for you know our intention was

to have embarked next March for Rio Janeiro, and there to

have spent two or three months, after which to have taken

passage in the Brazilian packet for England, which would
have probably detained us till October, and have rendered a

visit to Hanover that season impracticable. But by striking

off this Brazilian trip, and taking our course directly home-

wards, so much time will be saved, and all the rest of our

domestic arrangements become so much simplified that it

seems like finding a treasure, as a fund of time will thereby

be placed at our disposal, the first fruits of which, as in
292 Caroline Lucretia Herschel,     [1S38.

all love and duty bound, we have determined to devote to

Iyou; or rather, should say, that, when in talking over

with Margaret all the pro's and con's of the question,

whether to return home direct, or via Brazil? --this conside

ration at once decided it in favour of the direct course, her
desire to see you outweighing every consideration of amuse
ment or temporary gratification which a visit to Rio could
offer. So now be sure, dear aunty, and keep yourself well,
and let us find you in your best looks and spirits ; and,

Ialthough what you say respecting our good Mrs. Becke-

dorff 's health is somewhat deplorable, yet will indulge the
hope that she too will perform a part in the dramatis
persona of that happy meeting. Meanwhile, as the time of

our departure hence approaches, we shall take care and
apprise you of all our movements, respecting which it is
impossible at present to speak more precisely.

FROM H.R.H. THE DUKE OF CAMBRIDGE.

My dear Madam, --  Cammiidge House, May 18, 1838.

      IHaving just been informed by the newspapers that

your nephew is safely landed in this country, hasten to

Iwrite you a few lines by this night's mail to congratulate

you most sincerely on this event, which know will give you

pleasure.

  I am unable to send you any further details about him or

Ibis family, as am not aware if he is arrived as yet in
Itown, and should this not be the case, my letter will perhaps

be the first to give you this welcome news, which shall

Icertainly be delighted at.
       trust you continue enjoying your health ; and with best

wishes, &c, &c,

                   Yours most sincerely,
                                        Adolfhtjs.
Chap, vii.] Return of Sir "John Herschel.         293

SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

London, May 20, 1838.

Here we are, my dear aunt, at last, safely landed and

housed, all in good health and, as you may suppose, in

good spirits at our return. We ourselves and our six little

ones were very comfortable during our nine weeks' voyage in

the good ship Windsor, which is lying snug and sound in

the river at Blackwall, with all our things on board, tele

scopes and all (as well as the astronomical results of our

expedition). We left our ship, however, at the entrance of

the.Channel, and got to London in a steamer under the flag

of King Leopold, of Belgium, which, having been to

Glasgow to take in her machinery, was returning without

passengers, not yet being fitted up for their reception. This

was a most opportune and unexpected piece of good fortune,

Ias assure you we found most sensibly, by the non-arrival of

the ship till this morning, having been four days longer at
Isea, beating about against contrary winds.
                                             have more
Iparticulars to tell than would fill this paper, which must
reserve till our meeting, which will not now be longer de

layed than is indispensable for getting our baggage on shore,

and passing it through the Custom House, and transport
Iing it by a barge to Windsor, and so to Slough.
                                                  hope

and trust to find you as well in health as your two letters to

John and Mary Baldwin allow us to suppose

   The visit promised in the foregoing letter was
paid in July, when Sir John Herschel, accompanied
by his little son, spent a few days with his aunt,

whose intense anxiety as to the proper treatment

of her little grand-nephew -- his sleep, his food, his
playthings -- kept her in a constant state of alarm on
294 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [1S3S.

his account. " I," she writes, " rather suffered him to
hunger than -would let him eat anything hurtful ; in

deed, I would not let him eat anything at all without

his papa was present." Great as was the joy of the
dear venerable lady to rest her aged eyes once more

on almost the only living being upon whom she poured
some of that wealth of affection with which her heart
never ceased to overflow, it is on the disappointments
and shortcomings of those few precious days that she

dwells ; and, if she could have felt resentment towards

her nephew, it would have been roused by the abrupt
termination of his visit. Her lamentations are piteous.
Solely with the intention of sparing her feelings, her

nephew went away without letting her know the exact
time beforehand of his departure, and made no formal

leave-taking, when he bade her good-night to return
to his inn. To her infinite dismay and distress, she

found that he and his son had quitted Hanover at

four o'clock on the following morning. It was kindly

intended, but it was a mistake that gave intense pain.
Her introduction to her little grand-nephew is described
as follows by his father, H. Herschel : --

 .... " Now let me tell you how things fell out. Dr.

Groskopff took Willie with him to aunty, but without saying
who he was. Says she, ' What little^ boy is that ? ' Says
he, ' The son of a friend of mine. Ask him his name.'
However, Willie would not tell his name. ' Where do you
come from, little fellow ?' ' From the Cape of Good Hope,'
Chap, vii.]       Visit from her Grand-nephew.               295

says Willie. ' What is that he says V ' He says he comes
from the Cape of Good Hope.' ' Ay ? and who is he ?
What is his name ?' ' His name is Herschel.' ' Yes,' says
Willie, ' William James Herschel.' ' Ach, mein Gott ! das

Iist nicht        ist                  Neffen's  Sohn    '  And so
      moglich ;        dieser  meines
                                                       '?

it all came out, and when came to her all was understood,

and we sat down and talked as quietly as if we had parted

but"  yesterday   by the  way,  was    recounting a strange  feat
      Groskopff,

which, to give you some notion of the sort of person {par
rapport au physique), she performed, not longer than half a

year ago. Remember it is a person of eighty-eight or

eighty-nine of whom we are speaking. Well ! what do you

say of such a person being able to put her foot behind her

back and scratch her ear, in imitation of a dog, with it, in
one of her merry moods ?"

   The " Day-Book," which, as already stated, had been

recommenced in the year 1833. The first volume of

the new Day-Book concludes in May, 1837, with
comments on Baily's account of Flamsteed, and recol
lections of days spent at Greenwich in 1799, when she
had seen and wondered at the piles of manuscripts

accumulated there. "Dr. Maskelyne was not indif

ferent to the stores of observations of his predecessor,

for lie even attempted to make me undertake the exa

mination of some of Halley's scribblings on fragments

of waste paper [to sec if they] might not belong to

.some star or other. But such things cannot be done

in a moment, and the parcel was restored to its dusty

shelf. Poor Dr. Maskelyne had but one assistant,
296 Caroline Lucrdia Herschel.             [i&3S.

with a salary of .£70 a-year, whom I once heard lament

that all the planets  happened  to pass the meridian                 in
                 "
the night-time
                !

The entries are chiefly of the numerous visitors she

received, but there are frequent intervals of several

months when illness or disinclination to write pre

vented her continuing her Journal regularly. The

English Quarterly and Monthly Keviews and news

papers, and James's novels, supplied her with constant

reading, and every allusion to her brother's or her

nephew's labours is carefully noted. It is evident that

she still was in the habit of taking ample notes of any

book that interested her, in spite of complaints of the

growing failure of sight, and that, when tolerably wellr

no day was considered altogether satisfactory which

was passed in solitude. It was in May, 1833, that

she moved to No. 376, Braunschweiger Strasse, and

here she continued to dwell for the remainder of her

days.

       MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HEKSCHKL.

My     dearest         ^  --               Hanoveis, July 30, 1S38.

                Xiece,
       I hope that when you receive this my dear nephew, with

his precious charge (little William), will be safely restored

Ito your longing arms, and that he may have found you, with
all the little family, in perfect health.  wish to be assured

Iby a few lines from your dear hands. as soon as possible, for
   cannot divest myself of a fear that the botheration and

intrusion of some of the stupid Hanoverians must have
Chap, yii.] Sir y. Hcrschel at Home again.  297"

been very inconvenient to him. To which may be added
the change of weather from excessive heat to very cold

Iand wet, to which at this present moment (as far as know)
Ithey are still exposed, for think they must be now in

Hamburg

SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear Aunt,--                 London-, Aug. 6, 183S.

      IWillie and arrived in London safe and hearty on
IFriday night about eight o'clock, and am happy to say we
found all here quite well--both mamma and all the little

folks, who, as you may easily imagine, were in great joy, and
full of enquhies about you and about all our adventures in

foreign parts. Grandmamma Stewart, and all her circle

also, with exception of poor James S. (who is, however,

Imuch better, and we hope permanently), are well, and join
us in kind enquhies after you.  found here my cousin,

Thomas Baldwin, and his excellent and most amiable ^rife.

ICousin Mary had left us, and was returned to Anstey.
      found Dr. Olbers well, and have to thank you, in his

I Iname, for the Cape wine, a bottle of which was produced at
dinner the day dined there.     assure you it was drank in

good company, being associated (not mixed) with Hock of

240 years of age ! ! Dr. O. is weak and corpulent, but is.

otherwise in the full enjoyment of his mental faculties, and

in good spirits.

  I could not persuade myself to encounter a regular parting
Iwith you, and, in fact, found the distance to Bremen so-
Imuch greater, on enquiry, than had fancied it, that it was

necessary to leave Hanover at four a.m., which, of course,

prevented all further meeting. We shall be most anxious

to hear from you. M. will write in a day or two (and so
will the children) to thank you for all your kind remem
29S Caroline Lucrdia Herschel.                      [isss.

brances of them, and for the many pretty and valuable
things you have sent ; and till then, believe me,

                        My dear aunt,
                                Ever your affectionate nephew,

                                       J. F. W. Herschel.

.MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                 H.vn-over, Aug. 21, 1838.
***** IMy dearest Nephew, --
IBy the arrival of your letter of the 6th was re

lieved from my fenrs for the safety of you and your dear

little fellow-traveller, almost a week sooner than  had

reason to hope.

.... I had so longed for a few hours of confidential
*conversation with you which would have slmred me the un
pleasant task of writing about earthly matters      My

good neighbours came to wish me joy, and congratulate me

Ion having seen my glorious nephew and his son (who has

left no few admirers behind, can tell you).

   Dr. Muhry has lost a sister, a solitary old maid, like my

Iself, whom they could not leave till she was buried. But

she was in some respects better off than I, for found it

necessary to order all these matters myself. Miss Becke-
dorff and Mde. Knipping will at nry death have to deliver a

sealed packet to Dr. Groskopff, my executor, in which, on
his opening in then- presence, he will find the means requi

Isite for discharging all the items specified in an enclosed

memorandum of directions. Such matters had wished to
talk over with you, thinking it not unnecessary you should

Iknow a little about the way in which have always managed
Imy affairs. As soon as was left to myself, in the year
I1788, kept a book stiictly accounting for my expenses,
Iwhich was to serve as a voucher of the orderly life led.
Chap, vii.]   Letter to Lady Herschel.         299

13 ut being frequently under the necessity of assisting one or
Iother of my, as thought, poor (but say extravagant) rela
Itions, began to keep a spare box, by way of showing to
I .... Iwhat extent have thus robbed myself.
                                               am sorry
Ito trouble you'with such details, but find myself so unwell
I Iat present that cannot rest till have cautioned you not
to ask any question about me of any one, for nobody knows
anything about me--my confidence in Mrs. Beckedorff, even,

can only be partial, as we can only see each other so

seldom.

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HEliSCHEL.

         *          *                           Hanovbe, Sept. 24, 1838.
              postscripts      * * -*
I see by the
                           you directed my nephew to add

to your letter that you know exactly what will make his

Ipoor old aunt happy ; and must beg you to make my peace
I Iwith my dear little William, for fear the angry looks gave

him when seeing him climbing too high on an open windowr

two stories above the pavement, can have left no favourable

impression on his recollection. Unfortunately we could not

converse together : he talked too soft and quick for me (I
do not hear so well as formerly), and my mixture of German

and English was not intelligible to him        Had the

knitting with beads been known forty years sooner, it would

Ihave been one of the accomplishments with which came,

at the age of twenty-two, into England in 1772, for there

was no kind of ornamental needlework, knotting, plaiting

Ihair, stringing beads and bugles, &c, of which did not

make samples by way of mastering the art. But as it wras

Imy lot to be the Cinderella of the family (being the only

girl) could never find time for improving myself in many
300 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                [isss.

Ithings knew, and which, after all, proved of no use to me
Iafterwards, except what little knew of music, being just

able to play the second violin of an overture or easy quar

tette, which my father took a pleasure in teaching me.
IN.B. "When my mother was not at home. A*men.
                                               must
Ithink no more of those times, only just say came to Bath

with a mind eager to learn and to work, and never changed

I Imy mind till came here again, but now can no more.

.... I IOne thing must tell my nephew, which is, that

Ihope have found a deserving protector of my sweeper in
IDirector Hausmann, and hope either himself or his son

will find us a few comets with it yet. He is a constant

visitor of mine.

SIR J. F. VT. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear Aunt, --                     Slough, Nov. 26, 1888.

I have received a letter from Sir "Wm. Hamilton,

Astronomer Boyal, Dublin, informing me that the Boyal

Irish Academy have elected you an honorary member of that

I Ibody. The diploma is by this time on its way to my care,

and will, so soon as receive take the very first secure
                         it
                               it,
opportunity of transmitting to you.

Yesterday received your most welcome letter and Mr.
II
                 aBagulawski's in one.Iwrote to him some time ago rela
         I
tive to Halley's comet. He seems a very diligent observer,

and am glad you have seen him.

Your letter of September 24th, with its numerous dates,

was like little diary, and almost made us fancy ourselves

with you in Hanover

      am sorry to see, on looking at my banker's account,I
that you have not (as you promised to do) drawn on Cohen
for the .£'50 of this half year. Pray do, and that soon, or
shall be sadly disappointed.
Chap, vii.] Elected Hon. Member of the R. A. I. S. 301

   We have got a most excellent president for the Royal So
ciety in the Marquis of Northampton. He presided at the
anniversary dinner on the 30th, and did the honours with
great credit.

   A Copley Medal was awarded to Gauss for his researches,

theoretical and practical, on the subject of terrestrial mag
netism.

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

My dear Nephew, --                      Hanover, Dee. 17, 1838.

      IFirst and foremost let me dispatch what may be

called business. In the first place, thank you for your kind

letter and communication of having so great, an honour con

ferred on me as to be admitted an honorary member of the
IRoyal Irish Academy.
                       cannot help crying out aloud to
Imyself, every now and then, What is that for ? Next
Imust beg you to return my thanks in what words you think

proper should express them, and if you will only send

me a copy of the diploma, and keep the original along with

my other trophies, allowing them perhaps a corner in some

such box as that your dear mother had for suchlike things,

Ifor have no other desire but to be remembered by you and
Lady H., and your children, for yet awhile

 .... IIt is a long while since you asked me if wanted
any of my Indexes to Flamsteed's Catalogue of omitted
If Istars.
there should yet T,e any left, could wish to have
Ione or two ;
Iwork to the
"foAr rcyhoiuveshin" tehderet,o    me   might leave Baily's
                                 which     intend to do, and
Ithen should like to give an Index along with it.
302 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                               [183»

       MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR JOHX HERSCHEL.

  I Hanover, Jan. 7, 1S3P.
      see, to ray sorrow, that my letter was not come to hand
at the time when you directed the parcel with the diploma,

Iwhich was sent me on the 2nd of January, accompanied by a

note from the President, which beg you will answer for
me, and for that purpose transcribe here the same :--

                          Obsfsvatorv, Dublin,

" Madam,--                                        Dee. 4, 1S3S.

         " In transmitting to you the accompanying Diploma

Ifrom the Royal Irish Academy, wish to be allowed to add,
Ias thus do, the expression of my own high sense of your

services to Astronomy, and of the eminent degree in which

have   deserved the present testimonial.

    "
Iyou   have  the  honour  "toWbilel,iaMmadaRman,  &c, &c,

                                                  an Hamilton",

                                                  "P.R.I.A."

       MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

Dear Nephew, --           Hanovbr, Dee. 1, 1839.

IDo not you think have been very good to let the

most dismal month in the year pass without troubling you

for accounts of the progress my dear niece is making in her

recovery ?

  IMy dear niece said once, should write often, and in few

I I Ilines inform her how go on, so must say-- get up as

usual every day, change my clothing, eat, drink, and go to

Isleep again on the sofa, except am roused by visitors ;
I Ithen talk till can no more --nineteen to the dozen !

IN.B. don't tell Jibs, though they may not always like what

I say.

  I have been twice at the concert, and each time been
CiiAr. vii.]      Life in Hanover.               303

Ihonoured with a wie gehts ?* by His Majesty, and the notice

of many acquaintances whom have no opportunity of see

ing elsewhere, the public concerts being the only place

Iwhere can go with the least trouble to myself or others.
IYou say when talk of the gelehrten then all goes well, but

I know nothing about them

  IBut one piece of news must tell you, which is, that a
fortnight after Dr. Madler had been the conductor of Mde.

I"Witte(the Moon) and her      thdeauogneh,te"r  to the meeting at Pyr-
         received two cards,                     Professor Dr. Madler,"
mont,
under it, "Minna Witte -VcrlobtA" The reason Madame
"Witte gives for this hasty courtship is, that it is Dr. M.'s

Ifirst love, and that he would not wait, so the lady said yes !

As you have seen this lady, would give you this piece of

*****news.
I beg you will give a true account of my dear niece's and

Ithe children's health, not forgetting the babe and how she

will be named, that may enter the same in my biogra

Iphical account.  remain, my dear nephew,

                  Your most affectionate aunt,

                                                 Car. Hkrschei..

   The second Day-Book concludes in July, 1839, and
is in all respects like the preceding one, but contains
here and there touches and sentiments of which her

own words can only do justice.

  IAug. 3rd. -- went to buy some clothing for wearing at

Ihome, and went to my mantua-maker to give directions.
Ihad to climb up to the third story, and was of course
Iquite knocked up when came home, but it is my intention

              * How d'ye do ?  + Betrothed.
304     Caroline Lucretia Herschcl.            [18B9-1MO.

to continue to take some exercise as long as the weather

and the length of the afternoon will permit.
Awj. 2&th. -- My niece Knipping came in the afternoon to
assist me in some needlework --we did not do much !
ISept. 25th. -- To-day
                        was made happy by a visit of

Alexander Humboldt ; which, though it was extended to

Ithe utmost limit of the time which this interesting man

could spare me, was too short for all wished to hear and

had to say, which, as the theme of our conversation was my

nephew, may be easily imagined.
IOct. 5th Sc 6th. --Mr. Hohembaum and the carpenter were
with me to pack up the seven-foot telescope.   assisted as
Iwell as could, being very ill all the while.
   Oct. 7th. -- Dr. G. called for a moment, but nobody else !

  IDec 10th. -- went in the evening to the concert, where
I exposed myself most sadly by falling a-crying when the

I IKing most kindly came to me to inquire after my health.
   do not think shall have the courage to show myself

there again in a hurry.

   Jan. '21th. -- This is the first day since the 30th December

that the ice is detached from my sitting-room window.

   Jan. 31st. --Mr. Hausmann brought me some Journals,

and talked for an hour of old times with me, as he ever

does, good man !

   Feb. 7th. --A letter from my niece came this morning by
the Hamburger post, which will make me happy for some

time, and make me bear my painful solitude more patiently.

  I IMarch 17th. --Thank God the 7th and 16th March are got

over, and begin to recollect that have much else to do

.... Ithan bewail myself at being obliged to spend such days
severed from all that are, or were, so dear.'        found

I Imy poor friend [Mrs. Beckedorff ] very much altered, but
before  left her thought she looked a twelvemonth

younger for our two hours' clwit. But we both were obliged
Chap. VII.]       Her Day-Book.                  305

to part, for we could no more. Yesterday she sent me

some fine flowers, as usual on my birthday. Dr. Miihry

left a card ; two of my nieces called, and Hofrathin

Ubelode brought me some flowers. They left me fatigued

to death, to spend the long evening in solitude.

   June 18th. --Yesterday Mr. Hausmann came to see me,

Iand brought the Philosophical Magazine for June, in which
  had the pleasure to see that Dr. Lamont has observed

three of the Georgium Sidus satellites.
   July 3rd. --Dr. G. brought me an extract from The Sun

that my nephew has been created a baronet on the occasion

of the coronation.

  IJuly 9th. --My nephew arrived in Hanover in the evening.

  July 10th. -- In the afternoon saw him and my little

grand-nephew for a few hours.

   July 25th. -- My nephew and his son took tea with me,

and we soon parted, without taking leave, and next morning

I am told they left Hanover at four in the morning. More
I cannot say !

   Oct. 24th. --Mr. Hausmann came in the forenoon and

Itook the box with the mirror of my sweeper with hun, and
in the evening he came to receive the stand.     am glad my

poor sweeper is now in good hands !
   Oct. 29th. -- Mrs. Knipping* spent an hour with me in the

dusk of the evening, and read an act of a play.
IDec 30th. --In the afternoon Fraulein S. came to see me,
but she is deaf.  talked with her for a couple of hours

without either of us being the wiser.

   Jan. 5th. --Went in the evening to the concert ; had some

talk with the Levies, who delighted the company with then-

performance, especially the youngest son, eight years of age,

   * Mrs. Knipping was the daughter of Dietrich Ilerschcl, and the one of
the family Miss Hcrschel loved.

                                                                                              x
306 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                   [isss.

who gave several pieces on the French horn. Conversed

Iwith several persons besides the Prince Solms.

   Jan. 2Q(h.-- have been to the concert last night to hear

the wonderful violinist, Ole Bull. It was very crowded for

the confined room, though the largest in Hanover next the

Iplay-house. By the help of Miss B. and the M.'s got

Isafely through the crowd to my chair. But was somewhat

disappointed, for, by the report of those who had heard Ole

IBull before, expected to hear a virtuoso on the violin who

would have given us an idea of the manner of performance

of a Jordine, Kramer, Jacob Herschel, and Dietrich too ;

but it is more like conjuration than playing on a violin.

  IFeb. 12th. -- Dr. Lissing paid me a visit. He wished me

to subscribe to a work on Magnetism, but think it would

Ilook only like affectation to let my name appear among the

learned subscribers on a subject of which know so little.
   March 16th. --Mrs. Beckedorff sent me two beautiful

flowers, accompanied by her good wishes, which she never

forgets to do on my birthday. Mde. Knipping, and others,
came to wish me to live many more years, --but what can
I say ?
  IMarch 23r<Z. -- was at the last subscription concert.
I IHis Majesty was there, and asked me how did ?
                                                  said,

Itolerably ! This was all our conversation.

   July 16th. -- The whole of yesterday had no other pro

spect but that it would have been the last of the days of

Isorrow, trouble, and disappointment have spent from the
Imoment had any recollection of my existence, which is
                                 In the night
I Ifrom between my third and fourth year
fell out of one fainting fit into another, and when came

Ito my recollection, between six and seven in the morning,
   found Dr. G. sitting before me talking loud in his usual
nonsensical way. Him had Betty called in her fright, for

his wife (who is of use to nobody) is gone to spend the
Chap, vii.]                 End of Day-Book.        307

summer months in the country. Mde. Knipping also is

away.
IJuly 25th. --Mr. Hausmann, junior, and Mr. Hohenbaum
called to look at the photographical drawing.    am told it

Iis the only specimen of the kind in Hanover.
   This Day-book, No. 2, is now full, and shall not be easy
till it is deposited in a portfolio, in which will also be
                            It often enables me to con
found the Mem.-book 9

tradict erroneous impertinent notions concerning my brother
William's disinterested character.

  I am now not able even to look over, much less to correct,
Iwhat have scribbled, but it must go as it is. Perhaps my

Idear niece may look into them at some leisure moment, and

she will see what a solitary and useless life have led these

seventeen years, all owing to not finding Hanover, nor any

             like what left, when the best of brothers took
one in  it,
               J.

                  I
me with him to England in August, 1772        !

        SIR F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.  I
                                                    it I
....Dear Aunt, --               Slough, Oct. 23, 1839.
                                                                2 is
                 Now let me reply to your two letters of              it

August 26 and October 10, the last of which, being so

entirely in your old style, made us very happy.  now go

so little to London, and then only on the business of the

Royal Society respecting this magnetic expedition, that

has not yet been practicable for me to call on Dr. Kiiper,

whom well remember, however, at Cumberland Lodge,
is
and since.
    I

                        is
As to sending either of our boys to Germany,        time

enough, as W. yet only six years old, and assure you he

now learning German very fast.

M. desires me to tell you, in answer to your question

whether she preserves your letters, that she does so, mots

                                                 x
308 Caroline Lticretia Herschel.                           [1840.

carefully. She is sorry she omitted saying so in her last,

in which she replied to everything else. So do I, you may

be sure.

   The Fables arrived safe, and W. must thank you for them

Ihimself, as well as for your care of him in Hanover.
     had the honour to meet at dinner, at Sir Gore Ouseley's,

the other day, H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge. He was

very particular in his enquiries after you. He is quite well,

and his affable and agreeable manners make him generally

beloved.

Your letter of October 10th relieved us of much uneasi

ness, after the alarming account with which the former one

Iwas filled. When you once more begin to write about die

Gelehrten, &c, know all is well. So God bless you, and

believe me,                                                           .
             Dear aunt, your affectionate nephew,

                                  J. F. W. Herschel.

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dearest Niece, --  *                              Jan. 10, 1840.
         **
                                          *»

of its  "  Perhaps you may have heard that in       "thGeodeasralyveptahret
King       [the forty-foot telescope's] existence,
           was sung in it by the whole company, who got up

from dinner and went into the tube, among the rest two

Misses Stows, the one a famous pianoforte player, some of

the Griesbachs, who accompanied on the oboe, or any

instrument they could get hold of, and I, you will easily

Iimagine, was one of the nimblest and foremost to get

in and out of the tube. But now !--lack-a-day !-- can

!"....hardly cross the roomwithoutsahyesl,p."But what of   that?
             Opera,                       One cannot  eat
Dorcas, in the Beggar's                                    one's
cake and have it too
Chap, vii.] Anecdote of the Old Telescope.                                   309

  I will only thank you once more for your charming letter,

and beg to be kindly remembered to all who are dear to you,

and to give an embrace extraordinary to the dear little ones

around you, and not forgetting to include my dear nephew

in the general hug ! and believe me,
               My dearest niece,'

               Yours and his most affectionate aunt,

                                      Car. Herschel.

P.S. -- One anecdote of the old tube (if you have not

heard        must give you. Before the optical parts were
I
     I ? it)Ifinished, many visitors had the curiosity to walk through it,

among the rest King George III., and the Archbishop of

Canterbury, following  the King, and finding  sadyififnicgu, l"t           to pro
ceed, the King turned  to give him the hand,it                             Come,

                                                                          ! "
my Lord Bishop, will show you the way to Heaven
               I

   This was in the year 1787, August 17th, when the King
and Queen, the Duke of York and some of the Princesses

were of the company.

     hope the book where the visitors were noted, has been

               Some time after was kept by other hands
preserved                 iIt,                                               ;
                                  it
but before parted with    copied some pages which put

me sometimes in mind of persons who were interesting to

me.

These scribblings will come to you among the rest of

my scraps. Good-bye
*****My dearest Niece,--!

           MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

                                      Hanover, Jan. 10, 1840.

.... For the last month past have been so much
                          I
                                I

                                                                                      a
-disturbed and fatigued by visitors who came to wish me
happy New-year, &c, for
                          have of late gained the
310 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                                                                             [1840.

acquaintance of half a dozen ladies, added to two who were

in the habit of visiting me between the hours of twelve at

Inoon and six or seven in the evening ; [for the first two or
three hours, after having passed a sleepless night,                                                         ani

obliged to spend in the manner as perhaps you may have

seen Lord Ogleby did in The Clandestine Marriage].

  I IBut now, from seven to eight till between eleven and

twelve, am left to amuse myself as well as may, but it is

no easy task to turn books into companions by one who has

no eyes left ; but there is no help for it. There is neither

man, woman, nor child in Hanover to be found but they

must spend the evening at balls, plays, routs, clubs, &c.,

and not a month goes over one's head without a jubilee

being celebrated at enormous expense to someone who has

fifty years enjoyed title and salaries for doing his duty (any

how, perhaps).

But what a contrast between a jubilee auf der Borse* at

Hanover and the one at Slough, t described in your letter

Iwith which was made happy January 4th. The company
Iso select --for figure to myself none but angels from above

I Iwere listening to, and joining their kindred in the chorus

below ! . . . . Before take leave of this jubilee must

beg the excellent poet of the song to accept my hearty

thanks for remembering me so kindly in verse 4, and for not

letting the poor forty-foot telescope } depart in silence.

t* On the Exchange.
   The whole family party assembled at Christmas in the tube of the great

Jtelesc"opTeh,e  and sang a    ballad composed for the occasion.                                     piers  horizontally.
                   telescope,   as you know, is laid on three stone
It will be fresh painted to-morrow, and afterwards every three or 'four years,
                 and looks very well. The observatory will remain nearly as
as it wants
it

                     it,

                         is it

                                                                 is
                                                                                                 is
is. The apparatus of the telescope inside of thc tvbe, and will be riveted
up from all intruders. And all the polishing apparatus fixed on the spot."
--Letter of Sir John Herschd, Feb. 28, 1840.
   The great mirror now put up in the hall    of  the  house -- " Herschels                                 "-- at
Chap, vii.]  Misfortunes of Friends.          311

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

                                      April 5, 1840.
IMy dearest Niece !--
        Your delightful letter of March 8th, which received

about a week after that of my dear nephew, could never

have come at a more needful time for chasing away the

melancholy impressions my friends' losses and misfortunes

have had on my spirits. On the 7th of March Dr. Miihry

came to wish me joy on my nephew's birthday. Nine days

after, when they all used to come and bring me flowers,

&c, the whole family were thrown into despair by the death

Iof Dr. C. M., who died by his own hands (thirty-four

years old). About a week before had spent an evening

with him at his grandmother's, when he begged me to thank

my nephew once more for giving him a letter of introduction

to Dr.       , at Oxford. This poor man was spoiled by

being made too much of from his infancy. As a boy of

seven or eight, he was brought to England to visit his

grandmother and aunt, and was loaded with costly presents

by the Princesses, and fed with nothing but dainties, till,

when grown up, nothing but what was most extravagant

would satisfy him. The 30th of March our friend P

was buried, eighty-three years old. On my birthday a cir

Icular letter came by post, announcing Dr. Olbers's death.

So, must say once more, my nephew's and your dear letter

came very seasonably to turn my thoughts to something

more cheering

  I INow am in two minds whether shall turn to my dear
Iniece or have done with you first. But out with it ! would,

if you have no objection, draw on Mr. Drummond for i>52,

Slough, by the present tenant, Mr. Montressor, who has spared no pains
to do honour to the relics as well as to keep up the character of the old
fashioned "habitation," which owes much to the taste and judgment he has

bestowed on it.
312 Caroline Lucretia Herschel. [iS40.

Iand if should (as it seems) live to the age of Methusalem,

come again for the same sum after the 10th of October
next. For this is quite enough for me to live with credit,

and more would only be a trouble to me.

  I am tired, and can write no more just now, but for our
Iamusement will, some time or other, give you the history
                                                         FIfoIr
of the few days you were in Hanover, in July, 1838.
all that past was like Sheridan's Chapter of Accidents.
could only have had a few hours' of private conversation with

Iyou then, much trouble would since have been spared rue.
      hope to have soon some account of how your new situa

tion agrees both with papa, mamma, and the little bodies.

.... IHow many English miles is it from London ?
               My sweeper, which should have been so happy
to put in the hands of my little grand-nephew, and teach him

Ito catch comets till he could do something better (O ! why

did leave England !) is now in the hands of the good,

*****honest creature, Director Hausmann, and the seven-foot tele

scope is also saved from being sold for an old song. . . .

        MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. TV. HERSCHEL, BART.

                                                                            July 6, 1840.
  IBut at another time, when perhaps may find myself a
Ilittle better, will amuse my dear niece with introducing

some of my acquaintances to her notice. Some of the
family of General Halkett,* at least, she will not be dis
pleased at knowing personally. Last night the sister of

the general, Mrs. W. Clarke,t a widow, sat an hour with

   * General Baron Hugh Halkett, a distinguished officer of the German

Legion, died 1863.
   + Miss Herschel gave special directions that, after her death, her snufl-box

should be given to this lady.
Chap, vii.]  Her Seven-foot Telescope.          313

me, and said she would next summer visit her late husband's

relations in England, and then she would not fail of seeing
you. You must love her for my sake, for she really takes
some pains to give me pleasure, bringing me flowers, taking

Ime an airing in her fine English equipage, &c must not

forget the general's lady, a second wife, of course a step
 mother of my young friend. She is Scotch (a Graham),
and brought me little Christmas pies in her reticule on

INew-year's Day, of the young lady's making--the only good

kind have tasted in Hanover, and they were as good as my

 nephew's mamma ever made.

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

.... IMy dearest Niece, --                          August 3, 1810.
                  But first and foremost,
                                           must beg you will

give my best thanks to my dear niece Caroline for her very

I Isensible and very clever letter, and only wish may be

often favoured by her fair hands with such favourable

accounts of all your health and contentment with your new

Isituation.
      am not able to write long letters, and must content my

self with saying, in as few words as possible, that if my nephew

thought the seven-foot telescope worth the acceptance of the

Eoyal Astronomical Society, it is well ! . . . . (Mem.-- Its

only being painted deal was, because it should look like the

one with which the Georgium Sidus was discovered.)

  I have also the proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy
I Ito thank you for, twenty pages.
             suppose have nothing
Ito do but to accept them. But think almost it is mocking
Ime to look upon me as a Member of an Academy ; that

have lived these eighteen years (against my will and inten

tion) without finding as much as a single comet. But no

more of these terrible eighteen years just now
314 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                      ps*o.

  IMy dear nephew, if did not feel myself seriously de
Iclining very fast, would not incommode you at present

(when your time must be so precious) with such letters as

my two or three last have been.

  IBut going many nights to bed without the hope of seeing

another day, think it my duty to guard you against put

ting any trust or confidence in  . He and the whole

Ifamily have never been of the least use to me ; and for all

the good have lavished on them, they never came to look

after me, but when they had some design upon me.

  I IIn short, find that all along have been taken for an
Iidiot, or that at least am now reckoned to be in my

Idotage, and therefore ought not to be mistress of my own

actions. But, thank God, have yet sense enough left to

caution you against being imposed upon by a stupid being
Iwho would make you believe died under obligations to any
Iof the family.
                 know he has already, without asking my

Ileave, passed himself offfor my guardian, and is vexed at my

being able to do without him. But could not live without

Ithat little business of keeping my accounts ; and by my last

book of expenses and receipts may be seen, that owe

nothing to anybody, but to my dear nephew many many

thanks for fulfilling his father's wishes, by paying for so

many years the ample annuity he left me.

       SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

       .... IThe telescopes are now,      August 10, 1840.

                                          trust, properly

disposed of. Mr. Hausmann (who will value is         has the
                                                it)
sweeper. The five-foot Newtonian reflector in the hands

of the Royal Astronomical Society, and will be preserved

by as the little telescope of Newton by the Royal
it                                        is

             I
Society, long after and all the little ones are dead and

gone.
chap, vii.]   Christmas in Hanover.           315

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

.I...account                                                                                             Dec. 27, 1840.

                      There is another circumstance on which
             feel not very easy, which is that by leaving Slough

you are separated from all your usual friends, &c, doctors

and all ; but pray keep up your spirits, for the days are

already a cock's stride longer, and my windows have now

been covered with ice for the last three weeks, which is long
Ienough in conscience; therefore
                                    hope to see a change
Ievery morning when can get my eyes open, which is never

the case till near eleven o'clock.

There have been some English gentlemen with Mrs.

Beckedorff on business, who, in conversation, among the

rest, were saying that the keeping Christmas in the Ger

Iman fashion was coming to be very general in England ;

but hope they will never go such lengths in foolery as

they do here. The tradespeople have been for many

weeks in full employ framing and mounting the em

broideries of the ladies and girls of all classes, for there

exists not a folly or extravagancy among the great but it is
imitated by the little. The shops are beautifully lit up by

gas, and the last three days before Christmas all that

could be tempting was exhibited in the market places in

booths lighted up in the evening, where all run to gaze

and get a liking to all they see. Cooks and housemaids

present one another with knitted bags and purses, the

cobbler's daughter embroidered neck-cushions for her friend

the butcher's daughter, which are made up by the uphol

sterer at great expense, lined with white satin, the upper

part, on which the back is to rest, is worked with gold,

silver, and pearls.

  IBut find too much difficulty to write in these short
Idays, else could write a book about the nonsense which
316 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                         [iS4Q.

Iis going on in this city.  have for this last month been
completely tired out with this Christmas bustle ; but now
the balls at the Bourse, given by the shopmen to the
daughters of their masters, will be succeeded by the

masquerades in Lent, an amusement which in the good old
times was only for the nobility, but from which they are

now excluded

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

    .... Sept. 1, 1840.

             I owe you many thanks for relieving me two

whole days sooner from the anxiety of having been mis

Iunderstood by you, and now am happy, and all is well.:'
IBut there are times when should like to have some talk
with you or my dear niece, to put you in mind of many past

Ievents, but if you will excuse the style and the spelling, Sec,

&c, on account of my eyesight being so uncertain, will at

times try to amuse you with what passed in old times, for

Imy memory is as good   as ever [this is in  her    ninety-first
                        the past.) Writing   this,
year]. (N.B. --Year of                              puts me in

mind that never could remember the multiplication table,

but was obliged to carry always a copy of it about me.

SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

.... I IDid                               August 10, 1840.
              ever tell you that
                                  had lately brought

together the observations of four or five years, proving

beyond all doubt a Ononis to be. both a variable and a

periodical star, and one of the most remarkable among

them ? Its period is about a year, and it changes in that

time from a lustre superior on some occasions even to

Bigel, to a degree of brightness nearly on a par with

Aldebaran.
Chap, vii.]  Concerning her Brother.                      317

MISS HEKSCHEL TO SIB J. F. "W. HERSCHEL.

                                                 Feb. 24, 1841.

I intended to have made some remarks to you about

Iseveral things which are said in those pages which came
enclosed in the letter of February 3rd.  suppose it is not
expected to acknowledge the receipt thereof, but if there

Iis anybody to whom my thanks are due, beg you will do
Iit for me, because am not capable of writing to strangers.
IBut to you cannot help pointing out several things which

Idisplease me very much
      think whoever reads the Preface to the     description of
the forty -foot telescope (see " Philosophical  Transactions,"
June 11, 1795), would not accuse him             of jealousy --

which also may be seen by the four volumes on the con

struction of Specula, which your father left behind in MSS.,

(to which you added those excellent drawings of the ma
chinery, &c), which it was my care, for half a dozen years

at least, to save them from being devoured by the mice, by

placing them on a table in the middle of the library, where

I I Iwas obliged to leave them when left Slough, for could

not find a better place for them.

   Your father was latterly most miserably stinted for room,

Iand fear many, many things have met with destruction in

consequence of being put by in corners among rubbish
when not in use. For instance, when polishing and the foci

were to be tried, by three apertures [tubes], which generally

wanted to be repaired first ; (for the twenty-foot they were

Imade of pasteboard, but for the forty-foot of light deal)
and was directed to      hold them before the    mirror,  "aAndl,l
listening to the report  of the trial, was glad  to hear
Iright, three foci perfectly alike ! " and the work proceeded

to perfect the polish. Dear nephew, stick fast, and must
318 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.         [1841.

give over talking about these things ; it downright fatigues
me. But these folks would not have called the Herschelian
construction useless if they had seen the struggle, during
the years from 1781 to '86, 'to get a sight of the Satel

lites of the Georgium Sidus, when, after throwing aside the

speculum, they stood broad before us     Pray, does

South live still ?

##*##-MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.
                                                                         March 31, 1841.
      INot to send blank paper, will fill it by copying
Ifrom my Day-book the names of the visitors had to receive
Ion the 16th of March. This can do mechanically and by
Ifeeling, and it serves to pass away the time, as cannot

see to read for any length of time.

I IBy way of being ready to see anybody by twelve o'clock,
   rose an hour earlier than usual, but before was dressed,

Mrs. Beckedorff and Mrs. W. Clarke sent each a beautiful

moss-rose and card. Soon after, Mrs. Clarke and General

Halkett came ; Generalin Borse and daughter brought

violets ; Frau von Both ; Ober Medicinal-Rath Miihry ;

Miss Beckedorff; Madam Groskopff; Hofriithin Ubelode

brought mignonette ; Oberjustiz-Rath von Werloff sent

crocuses ; Fraulein von Werloff sent a card and hyacinths ;

Dr. Groskopff, Hauptman Buse, Alexis Richter, Major

IMuller ; -- all these saw between twelve and four o'clock,
Iand several for a good while together.
                                         talked and com

plimented myself into a fever, of course "looked blooming,"

and am to live to be a hundred years old. What stuff !
IAfter eating my solitary dinner tried to get a little sleep,
I Ias generally do, but before
                                     could compose myself

enough, two of Major Miiller's sisters came and remained two

hours with me ; after they left me, Fraulein von Werloff
Chap, vii.]  Her Ninety-first Birthday.       319

sent her companion, a Mademoiselle H., and a sister, to

Ikeep me company till ten o'clock. With difficulty, and the

help of Betty, got into bed, but could get no sleep, nor
the whole day after.

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HEKSCHEL.

My dearest Niece, --  Hanover, July 31, 1841.

       IIf it was not that ought to thank you for your kind

Iletter of June 9th, should perhaps not have now the spirit

to take up the pen ; but your letters always, especially the

Ilast, contain, besides the many consoling expressions, such

very interesting information, that would not for the world

risk to lose the monthly sight of your dear handwriting, by

omitting to return at least my grateful thanks for your kind

I Icommunications of what the present philosophers are about.
      think can form some idea of the author of the book

Ion philosophy (and godfather of our little Amelia), from
what  recollect to have read some years past in some

quarterly publication by a Mr. Newell, in defence of Sir
Isaac Newton. In short, it met with my approbation I

IThere is for you ! What do you say to that ?
     do not wish to write in what my dear brother William

used to call a Dick Doleful style, when our brother Alex

Iander was in the dismals, and out of which we often suc

ceeded in laughing him. But cannot just now turn to

Ianything of a cheering nature, for yesterday, the 30th, our

Queen died, and have been very unwell in consequence of
the violent change in the weather

   The following letter refers to the intended removal

of Sir J. Herschel and his family to Collingwood,

which he had purchased :--
320  Caroline Lucretia Herschel.            [1841-1842.

     MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

                                                                    Hanovee, August 2, 1841.

.... IMy dearest Niece, --
                   could wish to know something more about
the place where you now are.* How many miles is Colling-

wood from London? How many from Hastings? Have
I Iyou any good people or neighbours about you ?
                                            think

read in Watson's Gazetteer, Hawkhurst to be full of poor,

and, what is worse, of smugglers. Pray take care of the

dear boys and children, that they are not kidnapped in their

little rambles from home.

  I can for the present only say so much of myself that my

friends are almost going to kill me with their visits, like, as

Ithey say, the cat did her kitten with kindness. On Sunday

   was even honoured with a visit from the Duchess of
Anhalt Dessau and the Princess of Rudolstadt --the latter a
little astronomer--who remained a whole hour with me.

They are both daughters of the late Queen.

                  MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

 .... Hanover, Feb. 3, 1842.
              Your mentioning the Government gift of the Kew
Observatory to the Royal Society, recalls to my mind the
struggles through a life of privations during the lapse of
between twenty and thirty years, till my brother had re
alised a capital sufficient for living in a respectable manner
by making seven, ten, twenty, and twenty-five-foot tele
scopes. For it was in 1782 when Mr. De Mainborg, the
King's private astronomer (formerly one of his tutors) at
Kew, died, and my brother, in consequence of the discovery

  * The family of Sir J. Hersohel had left Slough anil settled at Collingwood,

near Hawkhurst, Kent, now the family residence.
CuAr. vii.]               Concerning her Brother.           321

of the G. Sidus, was called from his lucrative employment
at Bath. His friends had no other idea but that he was to

succeed Mr. De Mainborg at Kew. But it was otherwise

decreed, for the King was surrounded by some wiseacres who

knew how to bargain, and even £100 were offered if he

Iwould go to Hanover !               once wrote on a former occasion

   But you know by what
that he settled at Datchet with £200 per annum, after four

months' travelling between London, Greenwich, and Wind

sor, and moving his workshop and instruments from a house

at Bath, of which he had a lease. And at Michaelmas,

1782, was the first £50 he ever saw of the King's money.

This happened at the time when Parliament had granted to

Ithe King £80,000 a-year for encouraging sciences. This
Ionly knew by what heard at that time, and that Mr. West,
IR.A., with his giant Judas, Jervis, who made the altar-piece

for St. George's chapel (which once heard Mrs. Beckedorff

say had cost the King £30,000), and Herschel, were the first

who benefited by this grant.

  I am full of expectation of W.'s promised description of
Ithe Christmas entertainment ; but put him in mind that
I Ido not understand Latin. Of A's Greek, think can be a

judge, knowing the letters of the alphabet in consequence of

Itheir being used in the astronomical catalogues
Ihope music is still in favour with the family ; often lament

that at the time of our quitting Bath in such a hurry my

brother's musical treasures were scattered, and given to the

Iw" iInndst.heeAmobneagr  the  rest  there was a song    for four voices,
                          so   dear  a part," which was  just going to be

published by desire, for it was sung by the first performers

Ifrom the London theatres, and encored, between the acts of
the oratorios.            wrote it out ready in parts during my

brother's absence ; but he could not find a moment to send

it off, nor to answer the printer's letters.

                                                         V
322 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [is*2.

  IOh ! how should like to hear some of the glees and
Icatches sung by the great and little family in the music-room

at Collingwood ; but it was not to be ! and had rather leave
off and leave some room for the many good wishes to your
self, my dear nephew, and all those who are dear to you,

and believe me,

                    My dear niece,
                           Ever your most affectionate aunt,
                                                Caroline Herschel,.

MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dearest Ntece,--  Hanover, March 3, 1842.

.... Nothing runs in my head but what concerns
Imy family and connections, and am at present living over

again the last eighty-nine years of my existence

IBut will leave off teazing you with these old stories with

I Iwhich am obliged to amuse myself, for cannot see to

work or read, and must therefore either sleep or scribble,

for my visitors come mostly in the forenoon, their evenings

being taken up with public amusements or private parties,

Iof which have not been able to be a partaker these three
I Iyears, for see by my account-books it is so many since
left off subscribing to the play. But to please Mrs. Clarke

I Imade the experiment on the 3rd of February, whether

should come home alive after seeing King Charles II. in '

Wapping, acted at the English Ambassador's. Mrs. Clarke

came about twelve with an invitation from the Honourable
Mrs. Edgecombe -- their house not containing a room large

enough for giving great balls, they contrived this way of

entertaining the company. The enclosed playbill will show

the rest.
    There was no time for consulting milliners, and Mrs.
<'hav. vii.]      Goes to a Play.                             323

I·Olarke assisted me in looking out something from what had
-worn some years back, cap and all. (X.B. -- The latter of my
I·own making.)                                a German saying, if
                  must give  isy, o"u   here
_you do not know  it, which                   jeden Narren gefallt
                                       Einen
I Iseine eigene Cappe!"* but cannot say that was much
Ipleased with mine, have so very few grey hairs left, which,
Iliowever, was told were much admired !

Mrs. C. left me with a promise of sending her chair and

servant at three-quarters past seven, and was waiting in an

.ante-room for me to assist me in getting further, and,

indeed, the whole evening she did not withdi'aw her arm

Ifrom me till she had put me in my chair again, and the next

morning she was with me almost before was out of bed.
The King, Princess of Riidolstadt, and one of the Princes of

ISolms were among the company, and did not come home
I-without receiving their notice. But shall not venture on
Isuch pranks again, promise you !

             *#* **

  I I IAs am writing this see it will be my birthday, when

Ishall be ninety-two years, if live. My nephew's is the

7th, and he will be fifty, but for all that do not think him

to be an old man. His father was fifty-four when he first

saw the light

The King of Prussia left magnificent presents among the

courtiers, and Generalin Halkett was here on Sunday, and

promised to bring me a snuff-box to look at, which the general
Ihas received.
                begged she would not, for the ladies wear
Ino pockets, and lose their purses, Sec, as daily hear by the

I Itown crier. Their pocketkerchiefs they cany open in their

hands, which think very indelicate ; daresay it is not

.... Ithe fashion in England
                    would not wish on any account to see either my

               * Every fool is pleased with his own cap.  y2
324 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.            [is-t-2.

Inephew or you, my dear niece, again in this world, for

I Icould not bear the pain of liarting once more ; but trust
Ishall find and know you in the next. And as long as
Ican hold a pen, let us, beg, commune with one another by

letter !

MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My dearest Niece, --  Hanoveb, June 2, 1S42.

A thousand thanks for your kind letter, which con

tains ever so much comfortable and satisfactory information,

I Isuch as heart can but wish
      have begun a piece of work which despair of finishing
before my eyesight and life will leave me in the lurch. You
Iwill perhaps wonder what such a thing as may pretend to
Ido [can be], but cannot help it, and shall not rest till I.
Ihave wrote the History of the Herschels.  began, of

Icourse, with my father and his parents. My father was

born in January, 1707, and have now only got so far as

the beginning of 1758, and it begins to interest me much,

I Ibut doubt whether shall live to finish but think a

....pity should be thrown away.*
 .... Do not forget to thank my little nephew for his
is

  it it

                  it

                                           a
                                                                                                              :

                                                                it,

                                           !I I

                                                                             a it
pretty letter. His description of the method his papa

makes use of in teaching mathematical figures, prefer to

that of his grandfather. He used, when making me, a

   * In answer to tins announcement her niece wrote " Herschel bills me say

hc quite delighted at the idea of your undertaking the family history, but
he insists upon that you prove his descent from Hercules, and dare say in
this age of relics, we could contrive to find in the rummaging of old traps
turned out at Slough, veritable piece of the old chili which has by fortunate

accident served as part of the ladders of the forty-foot telescope or perhaps
you remember its slipping down the mouth of the great telescope one night
when was turned in the direction of your ancestor's constellation, as sign
that he confessed himself outehonc by your labours."
Chap. VII.]               Regrets.                       325

grown woman, acquainted with them, to make me sometimes

Ifall short at dinner if did not guess the angle right of the
Ipiece of pudding was helping myself to !

             MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

My deaiiest Niece, --                  Hanuver, July 7, 1842.

I have just now been reading your dear letter of June
I7th once again, but shall take care not to look into it for
Iyet a while, else run the risk of going mad when thinking
Iof my running away from a country where might have

been an eye-witness, and sometimes a partaker, of so much

domestic happiness. But it is no matter now, and of no

I Iuse fretting about it ; am only sorry cannot go on with
I Imy history as fast as could wish, for feel too unwell to

.... Ibe doing any thing for any length of time
                   am glad my dear nephew finds pleasure in
giving up so much of his valuable time to his dear sons ;

for my hair stands at an end on hearing what beings are

continually expelled from our Eton here, all owing to

ignorant ambitious parents trusting entirely to unprincipled

hirelings.

  IThough my poor brother seemed to have no hands in the

education of his only son, know, from having been present

at many private conversations he had with Dr. Gretton, that

....nothing  wasThdeone"  without his  approbation  and   advice.
                          Astronom.    Nachrichten       have latterly
                                                     "

been filled with tables and too much mathematic (for me).

The last numbers, 450, 451, contain an account, by Struve,

of the purchase of Olbers' books, &c, for the library of the

IObservatory at Pultowa. This puts one in mind of Olbers
saying somewhere,         had discovered five comets. Who

wanted him to give the number of my comets when he
326 Caroline Lncretia Herschel.                                        [is-ti.

Iknew them no better ? As fur as recollect, Dr. Maskelyne

Ihas observed them all, and his observations on them ore,
daresay, all printed in the volumes of the Greenwich Obser

Ivations -- at least of some he has shown me the proof sheets.
   never called a comet mine till several post days were
                                                                         And
passed without any account of them         cgoammein, g"tWo ehranadm.
after all, it is only like the children's                              ersten

kick raft, soll den Apfel haben ! "VYo sie denn alle rufen.

I Ikick ! kick ! and so,"* &c, &c                heard to-day
      long for the return of the messenger, for

that Bessel and Encke were gone, to the philosophical

Imeeting in England, and expect to hear a great deal of
Inews. But first and foremost wish to see in your next

that yourself and my dear nephew, with all the dear little,

little ones, continue to be well and happy             go on but

  IP.S.--My head is full of my History, and
I Islowly, because cannot sit up for any length of time.

am only at my fourteeth year, and have just pax-ted from my
brother, William Herschel I., who is returned after a four

teen nights' visit to us, to England, Leeds in Yorkshire
I(where he must be left for some time), and
Itill have recovered from the parting scene.     cannot go on

IYou remember, you take the work in whatever state may-
leave it, and make the best of it at your leisure. Adieu.

TO Silt J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

....My dearest Nephew, --                  Hanover, Jiujiist 4, 1842.

Major Muller is not yet returned, and is not

expected till September, from his measuring business, and

Ibesides him there is not one astronomer, or, may say,
Irational man in Hanover to whom could apply for infor-

· Ho who first cries " Kick ! " shall have the apple.
Chap, vii.]                   A Total Eclipse.                             327

ination in matters which are above my understanding. But
Iin my
Iyour
     "neCxhtrysohtoyppee,t"o  say  more,   or rather a great deal  about
                              for     had  a visit to-day from a   Berg-

IRath-W., who seems to be much interested in these dis
coveries      How envy you having seen Bessel --the

man who found us the parallax of 61 v Cygni

 .... I Ibelieve have water on my brains, and all my

Ibones ache so that can hardly crawl ; and besides sometimes

a whole week passes without anybody coming near me, till

they stumble on a paragraph in the newspaper of Griithou-

sen's discoveries, or Lord Queenstown's great telescope,
which shall beat Sir William Herschel's all to nothing, and

such a visit sometimes makes me merry for a whole day.

          SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear Aunt,--                            Collingwood, Aug. 9, 1842.

          IM. tells me must finish this letter with an account

of the total eclipse of the sun seen at Pavia by Mr. Baily,
and at Turin by Mr. Airy. At Pavia it was very finely seen,

and as soon as the sun was totally covered, the dark moon

was seen to be surrounded with a glory, like the heads of

saints in old pictures. While he was admiring this, a great

shout from all the population of Pavia broke out at once,

which was caused by the sudden appearance of three purple

or lilac-coloured flames, which seemed to break out from

the  edge of  the moon.            A"tEsMilleabnenthdeie  same was seen,    and
the  people   shouted out                                  Astronomen ! "  * as

soon as they saw the flames.

  I am glad you got my Chrysotype pictures safe. The

present beautiful sunshine has given me an opportunity to
make great progress in photography, and the enclosed pho

              * The astronomers for ever !
328              Caroline Lucrdia Herschei.                [1842-1843.

tographic copy of a little engraving or two may serve to

amuse you. Meanwhile the star reductions are not for

Igotten. Thirty more sweeps only remain to be reduced,

and am already in the engraver's hands with the nebulie
pictures. And so the world wags with

                              Your affectionate nephew,

                                       J. F. W. Herschei,.

         SIR J. F. AV. HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

.... IOn the 30th of last month finished the reduc
tions of all my Cape nebula? and double stars, and have got

all the former and all but a very small number of the latter

arranged in catalogues in order of lit. Ascension for the

epoch 1830, January 1st. Thus these two most important

parts of my Cape work are at last secured against loss, and
Iit will not be long now before shall begin to prepare for
Ithe work of publication in good earnest.
                                              mean as to the

narrative part.

Dec. 8, 1842.

               LADY HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL

.... · Jan. 12, 1843.
               Your nephew sends you    hi"s  translation  of  Schil
ler's  beautiful and instructive poem,        The Walk,"   in  which

he tied himself down to the original metre, and each

couplet contains the sense of the corresponding couplet in

German, so that the full strength of the English language

was required to do justice to the comprehensiveness of

Schiller's ideas. There was a beautiful walk up the side of

Table Mountain which always reminded Herschei of this

poem, and made him love it ; and lately there have appeared

in an Edinburgh Review translations     of all Schiller's      minor
poems, some of which are well done;     but he thought
                                                               " The
J.Chap, vii.] Sir  Herschel's Translation.                        329

Walk" deserved to be better rendered, so he set about
                 it
and distributed                                                                  it,
                   among his friends as Iris Christmas

sugarplum. The number of interesting autographs, criti

cisms, witticisms, &c, which have been thereupon returned,
will make an amusing packet. One lady says (alluding to

the singularity of the hexameter in English) that she found

it difficult to get into the step of the Walk another, that
I
                             it ; a
                                     it
                                                                                                       ;
                                                                          it
the Walk had got into Ran, was so often carried off by

friends from his table another, not knowing whence

came, intended sending to Herschel for his opinion on its

merits! another, while admiring the ideas, says "to the

verse am averse." The good Misses Baillie, of Hampstead,

have been greatly delighted with it. They desired their

kindest remembrances to you.

            MISS HERSCHEL TO LADY HERSCHEL.

.... Hanover, March 1843.
           Nine o'clock in the evening (February 19). This
the first moment of quiet after six days in tumultuous
is                                                  ;

          I                                              I
                                                                                  1,
                 I                                                 I
joys by all living beings, from the most highest to the most
lowest, and will give you here an account of what share

have had in the rejoicings. In the first place, must begin
with confessing that have been uncommonly ill of late,

and nobody came near me to comfort me for all my friends

were too busy with gala-dresses, or else laid up with colds,

kc, from shopping in bad weather, and paddling about in

the snow, and am at this moment ignorant of how they
I
have faredI

            I

                                                 ;
have not time to fill the paper, for my friends begin now

to take up my little time of my short forenoons, and the

evenings    cannot see so here                      send what     have been
                                                    I
                                                               I

scribbling, and will only add that the enclosed programme

was sent me, on the 14th by the Crown Prince, who having
330 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.                                [1S4S.

Iinquired through somebody after my health, and hearing

-was well, and preparing for illumination, was much affected ;

and yesterday his adjutant, Major Stolzenberg, brought me

a message from the Crown Prince, including H. E. H. the

*****Princess, with a present of their portraits.

             TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL, HART.

                                                                April, 1843.
IMy dearest Nephew !--
Many thanks for your dear letter, which found on

....my breakfast-table on the morning of the 16th March,*
          when the Crown Prince and Princess were announced.
Mrs. Clarke, who just came in, assisted me to entertain the

royal and interesting pair for nearly an hour. They came

Iin arm in arm, earning an immense bouquet before them,

which heard afterwards they were returning with from the

Ihothouses at Herrnhausen. As soon as the Princess was

placed on the sofa, and beside the same, the Crown Prince

Idrew a chair close to me, chatting and joining in our con
versation.   could not help giving the Princess the lines of

your letter  to read,  w"heTrheeyoWuamlke,"ntiwonhicthhemwasso  prettily, and
presenting   her with                                           lying among
Itthe flowers and the open letters before us on the table.

was a little rumpled in the coming, which she said made it

the more welcome, as it would remind her of its having once

been mine.

  I intended to amuse you with the list of the names and
Ititles of all the visitors had to receive on that day, but you
Iwill find them one of these days in my Day-book ; and will

only say that it was rather too much to expect me to be

                       * Her 93rd birthday.
chap, vii.]   On tJte Zodiacal Light.                              331

Icivil to upwards of thirty persons in one day, which lasted

till evening, so that had no time to eat a morsel, finding

myself seriously ill.

                                                            May 4, 1843.

Memorandum for my next letter, made April 23rd.

   To my Nephew. On reading your letter to the editor of

Ithe Times, of March 31st, recollect having written down

some observations of your father's on the zodiacal light ;

he never lost an opportunity of noticing anything remark

Iable during twilight, or in the absence of nebulre, &c, and
   remember also his explaining to me another kind of ray,
which is after sun-setting, reaching up very high ; but this,

Ionly appears for one or two nights at the equinox : but have

Iforgot all about it, and want only to speak here about a tem

porary Index to observations, in which know a few of such

like memorandums were catalogued or carried in their sepa

Irate books. "WicthoutldhisnoInt dmeaxkyeouarn  father was  never  satisfied,
                                                Index, it   was a
telling me,                                                        task Sir

I. Newton had found too difficult to accomplish," .. . .

and he would hardly allow me to make use of this book,

after calling it a temporary Index. But it has often saved

me a whole week's poring over the Journals for a memo

randum

                 MISS HEESCHEL TO LADY HERSC'HEL.

                                                                                               June, 1843.

  My dearest and best Niece, --

      I must write a few lines by way of thanking you for

your dear letter of May 9th. Your description of the splen
did observations which are made on the roof of your own
mansion, recall the many solitary and, at the same time,
332 Caroline Lncretia Hcrschel.  [is«.

I Ihappy hours spent on my little roof at Slough, when was

Inot wanted at the twenty-foot. And cannot help at the

same time regretting my having spent these last twenty

years in so useless a manner, between roofs and houses

which prevent my seeing even an eclipse of the moon when
in a low part of the ecliptic, it passes away behind the houses

Iof my opposite neighbours ; and so did the glorious tail of

your comet, of which, however, have gathered all that

has been said in the papers, besides what you and my

Idear nephew have been so kind as to communicate
      have just been reading part of your dear packet over

again, and am resolved to follow your advice, and say as

Ilittle of what hal,pens now as possibly can help, and send
I Iherewith what call the first part of my History, of which

I Iwish you will in your very next give me your sincere
opinion.  shall judge by it if may go on, or lay down

the pen for ever.

  I(I hope the packet containing my brother's biography

has been safely taken care of among his papers, for have

I Ino copy of it ; pray let me know if you have seen such a

packet, think it is in quarto, and that put it in a cover

**I **I *Ilike all the MSS.)
   Of the present can only say that have been unable to

do anything beside keeping myself alive, and getting my
·clothes on by twelve at noon, so that may be able to
receive anybody who may call on me between that hour and
eight in the evening.
  IThis brings to my remembrance, that when was god
Imother to Mrs. Waterhouse's eldest sister in 1787, was

called away in the afternoon to help my brother to receive the
Princesse Lamballe, who came with a numerous attendance

to see the moon, &c About a fortnight after, her head

was off.
chap, vn.]    On her Recollections.                                      333

SIR J. F. W. HKRSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear Aunt,--            Colungwood, Sept. 13, 1843.

Again we are rejoiced by the sight of your hand

writing, and by the admirable and truly interesting History
of your own younger days, which you have sent with your

delightful letter, and which arrived perfectly safe, and, you

Imay be sure, will be treasured as the apple of the eye, and

often read and re-read. began the reading of it last evening
to all your grand-nephews and nieces who are old enough to

isunderstand  and the History of their great-grandpapa's

    aa

       I
           I it,

                              is

                          I

                                             if

                                    I
hardships after the Battle of Dettingen, and poor uncle

Alexander's harsh treatment, and your own quiet, thoughtful

activity and self-dependence, made on all my hearers, as
well as on myself, an impression which am sure will not

easily be forgotten, and which shall take care not to let

them forget. We all entreat you to continue it, and you

need not be in any fear about the writing. Your hand

writing (Gottlob*)  still  excellently         good,  "aHndisttohreyre"  was
not word either in  your   letter or in         the                      that

....gave me the least trouble to read
                visited in London Mde. Taylor (whom you en
trusted with the pictures of your Koyal visitors, which are

very charming things, and seem as they must be good

likenesses).  did not find her husband at home, but she

very pleasing person, and pleased me greatly by the

respectful and friendly way in which she spoke of you. "We

hope to see them here, where they will be much valued, as

will be the effigy or recollection of everybody that has been

kind to you, or anything that has given you pleasure. . . .

   The only news have to send you that of Capt. ltoss's
safe return with the South Polar Expedition after nearly
four years' absence, having penetrated to the 79th degree of
              I

                                 *

                               I

                                                is
                           thnnk God.
334 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.             \_\su.

S. Lat., and discovered a new continent full of volcanoes and

icy mountains, and the true position of the south magnetic
pole. He anchored his ship upon the spot where the
Americans say they found land, and found no bottom at

six hundred fathoms !

MISS HERSCHEL TO SIR J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                                                                            June i, 1S44.

 .... IMy dearest Nephew, --
                   For these last three months have not been
able to add a single line to my Memoir, but what you will

find among my papers and memorandums ; perhaps your

daughter Isabella may, for her amusement some time or

I·other, correct and write in the clear, my scribblings, for

Ifind that in attempting to correct one blunder am making
Itwo others in the same line. But wish you might see,
Iby what say of myself, what trouble and invention it must

Ihave cost your father to enable me to assist in determining

the places of all these objects, and see with pleasure that

your observations agree so nearly.
             **# **

  I was going to send, for the amusement of my dear niece,

some description of what is going on here in Hanover, but

I find it would be too much for my time and patience at
Ipresent, and will only say that believe they are all out of

their senses.

    There is an Eiscnbahn* from Hanover to Braunschweig

just now completed, which has turned them all wild.

Some hundreds of high officers all (but the King) set off at
eight o'clock to breakfast with the Braunschweigers, and

returned with the same at three to dinner (eight hundred in

Inumber) in the orangery at Herrnhausen, from whence the
Braunschweigers returned and were at home,  believe,

again at eight.  " Railway.
Chap, vii.]        The Great Telescope..                                335

  I Iam too tired at present, else was going to tell you how

they are building. Hanover is now twice as large as when you

I Isaw it last ; nothing but castles will serve them any longer.
   have all this from hearsay, for have not been downstairs

*****since February 3, 1842.
IThey talk of nothing here at the clubs but of the great
mirrorand                                           it.            but
for
!"*....answer                                       ein
              the great  ism, a"nDwerhoKemrladiset           have       one
             all, which
                                                         Narr
                MISS HERSCHEL

*****My dearest Niece,--
                         TO LADY HERSCHEU
                                                      MarcJi, i, 1845.

       IHave understood you aright ? Saw you the ther
Imometer l£° above zero ? the lowest have heard of here

·was only 13° below freezing ; but we are buried in snow !

   March 5th. --No alteration in the weather, nor in my affec

tion for my dear niece and nephew and their ten children !

*****the first is as cold as the latter is warm !
                                                         April 29, 1845.

In his father's library my nephew must have found a
folio volume of H
                         (an astronomer and copper engraver),

where, for every hour a distinct picture [of the moon] is

given. In the Phil. Transactions for 1780, p. 507, is the
first paper of William Herschel on the Moon. In 1787;

1792, p. 27 ; 1793, p. 206, measure of mountains, &c

  I ITwenty-three years ago, when first came here, visited

IMadame W. (not von) once or twice, saw her observatory

and a telescope, believe not above 24-inch focal length ;

at that time she amused herself with modelling the heads of

the Roman Emperors : her daughter, then a girl, was a poet,

                   * The fellow is a fool !
336 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.   [is«l

and a portrait of her was 'exhibited as a Sappho crowned
with laurels

The great difficulty of writing begins at last to tell

in Miss Herscliel's correspondence. One more letter

in 1845, is the last of the ample sheets she had been

used to fill. The monthly report becomes shorter, rnore

blotted, and betrays extreme feebleness. On the first

of October, 184G, she wrote :

   My dearest Niece !--

       I must not let the messenger go without a line just
Ito say that am still in the land of the living, of which,
Ihowever, have no other proof than a letter from Baron

Iv. Humboldt, inclosing a Golden Medal from the King of
Prussia.  can say no more at present, and the post will

not wait, so believe me, my dear niece, yours and my dear

nephew's most affectionate aunt,

                                  Car. Herschel.

   The following is the letter referred to from Alex
ander von Humboldt which accompanied the Gold
Medal presented by the King of Prussia on the occasion
of her ninety-sixth birthday :--

                                                                Berlin, Sept. 25, 1846.

   Most honoured Lady and Friend !--
         His Majesty the King, in recognition of the valuable

services rendered to Astronomy by you, as the fellow-worker
of jrour immortal brother, Sir William Herschel, by dis
coveries, observations, and laborious calculations, com
manded me, before his departure for Silesia, to convey to
you, in his name, the large Gold Medal for Science, and to
Chap, vII.j  Letter --Baron Humboldt.      337

express to you the gratification he felt that, by God's grace,
your noble life has been a long succession of years free of
pain, and that now in your solitude you continue to enjoy
the reflected glory of the all-embracing knowledge, the
great labours in both hemispheres, and the profoundly

penetrating genius of your illustrious nephew, Sir John
Herschel. To be had in remembrance by an intellectual
and kind-hearted Prince cannot be a matter of indifference

to you. He had wished you to receive this little gratifi

cation on your ninety-sixth birthday, and by an unfortunate
mistake the date of Caroline Lucretia Herschel's birth has

been changed from the 16th of March to the 16th of October,

Iand am the culprit, misled by a misprint in a French

I Ihistory of astronomy. know may count upon your in
Idulgence and that of your distinguished family in England.

   specially deserve such leniency to-day--the day on which
my young friend, Dr. Galle, assistant astronomer in our
Observatory (to the triumph of theoretical astronomy be it

 said), has discovered the transuranian planet indicated by

 Leverrier as the cause of the perturbations of Uranus.

         I With the deepest respect,
                   am your most obedient, although illegible,
                                              Alexander Humboldt.

  IDo not trouble yourself to write to the King; will

 convey your thanks to him.

Once more a few lines, begun November 1st, and

finished December 3rd, were traced, betraying, now

only for the first time, the apprehension that they

might be the last, in the words --

   Miss      Beckedorff shall  write  Ifor me if do not get
             Loves to all.
better.                                  Caroline Herschel.

                                       /.
338           Caroline Lucretia Herschel.     [is46-is4r.

   Even this, the last letter of all, is addressed in a

large, clear handwriting. Henceforth " the messenger''
carried no more the large familiar sheet which had
often been filled at the cost of many days' work and
frequent re-writing ; but her kind friend, Miss Becke-
dorff, wrote a regular monthly report to the anxious

*****friends in England, from which the following most

interesting extracts are taken :--

   EXTRACTS FROM THE LETTERS OF MISS BECKEDORFF TO
                      SIR JOHN AND LADY HERSCHEL.

                                                                                                  Dsc 1846.

 .... She said that whilst she was idling away her time

on her couch she had --with her mind's eye -- set up a whole
solar system in one corner of her room, and given to each

Inewly-discovered star its proper place. She cried when

told her again of your and Sir John's solicitude about
her, &c

                                           March, 1847.

   Her likeness has been taken by two young painters
lately. . . . She wag sitting -- or rather reclining --for her
picture whilst my niece was with her, and the exertion of

it made her at first nervous and hysterical, but by degrees

              it,                          am sorry to

                     ;I
she overcame  and conversed cheerfully.  I

                                                  ;

                                                I
say the drawing which saw did not do justice to her

intelligent countenance the features are too strong, not
feminine enough, and the expression too fierce but hear

the picture which did not see more like her.
              I          is

                                                                                         March 31, 1847.I

       am commissioned by dear Miss Herschel to send to
you and for her dear nephew, with her best love, the accom
Chap, vii.]     Declining Strength.                   339

Ipanying print, which fear will at first sight not satisfy you.
IThe artist has, believe, imitated the style of the old German

school of Albert Diirer, resembling more a ' woodcut '

than a print, nor does it justice to her fine old countenance.
Yet it is extremely like in features, expression, and deport

ment, her eyes having taken the languid expression more

from fatigue occasioned by her sitting for the picture, whilst

Ishe is used generally to recline on her sofa, and see them

very frequently sparkle with all their former animation. . . .

IShe has, as predicted, lived to begin her ninety-eighth

year, and she has stood the exertions and excitements of her
Ibirthday even better than could have been expected.
                                                      saw

her on the 15th, and again on the 17th ; for knowing that

Mrs. Clarke, who, like all General Halkett's family, are full

of kind attentions to her, would act as her aide-de-camp on
Ithe occasion,
                felt that it would only be adding to the
Inumber of those who must be kindly spoken to if had
Igone to see her on the 16th. Upon passing the door just

saw a beautiful and most comfortable velvet armchair, a

-cake, and magnificent nosegay carried up to her, and soon

after met the gracious donor, our land Crown-Princess, with

the Crown-Prince and the Royal child driving to her ; they

stayed nearly two hours, Miss Herschel conversing with

them without relaxation, and even singing to them a com
position of Sir William's, ' Suppose we sing a Catch.' The

IKing sent his message by Countess Grote. On the 17th

found her, more revived than exhausted, in a new gown and

smart cap, which Betty provided ; and Betty's own cap was

Inew trimmed for the occasion, strictly in keeping with the

style of her mistress, and can but again commend the

judgment and zeal with which she makes her arrangements

for the comfort and appearance of dear Miss Herschel, and

.... Ifor a fit reception of her high and numerous visitors.
                 ran over to ask for Miss Herschel's own message
                                     z2
340 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.  [is*7.

I Ibefore seal.  am to " give her best love to her dear

nephew, niece, and the children, and to say that she often
wished to be with them, often felt alone, did not quite like

old age with its weaknesses and infirmities, but that she too

sometimes laughed at the world, liked her meals, and was

....satisfied with Betty's services.".
              You may rest assured that she is most carefully
attended to, and Betty is not only fully to be depended

upon, but is also extremely judicious, and the only person

Iwho has gained Miss Herschel's entire confidence and
approbation      have charged her to come to me

whenever she sees a possibility of doing anything for her

mistress's comfort, and, from the girl's unaffected attach

ment for her, can quite rely upon her. Dear Miss Herschel

has, indeed, arranged everything beforehand ; and for years

past has reserved a sum to answer all calls in the event of

her death.

    .... I June 29, 1847.
                          generally find her dozing, and now always
lying on her sofa ; she requires, however, but a very short
moment to recollect herself, and then enters into a conver

sation, of which she takes the greater and by far the better

part on herself. It generally carries her back to old times

and events and persons long gone by, sometimes with great

Ihumour, sometimes with regret ; and when she enters upon

subjects of vexation, have the means of restoring cheerful
ness and satisfaction by speaking of her nephew and his
family. She avoids topics of a directly serious and religious
nature-- and is indeed so much alone that she has time for

these reflections when by herself.

                                                                                                         Dec. 2, 184".

        A few days ago she talked of her childhood, and even

sung me a little ballad she had then learnt.
chap, vii.] Survey of Nebulous Heavens.  341

    While her faculties were equal to the appreciation

of the gift, she received a copy of Sir John Herschel's

great work of Cape Observations. The first of the
two following letters tells how it was in progress ; the
next announces its completion ; and thus, by a most
striking and happy coincidence, she, whose unflagging
toil had so greatly contributed to its successful prose
cution in the hands of her beloved brother, lived to

witness its triumphant termination through the no-
less persistent industry and strenuous labour of his

son, and her last days were crowned by the possession
 of the work which brought to its glorious conclusion

 Sir William Herschel's vast undertaking --The Survey
 of the Nebulous Heavens.

sie j. f. w. herschel to miss herschel.

My dear Aunt,--  Collinqwood, Dee. 8, 1846.

Your letter, which arrived this morning, confirms

the apprehension which the ahsence of any news from you

during the last month had begun to excite, that you were

Iunwell, and has caused us the liveliest sorrow. How wish

we were near you, that dear M. could be with you and nurse

you. But the same kind Providence which has preserved

Iyou so long in health will not fail you in sickness. Mean

while, pray and entreat you not to decline the attendance

of our good Dr. Miihry, or to avail yourself of any comforts

that Hanover can afford. We shall look most anxiously

for further accounts from Mde. Knippng, or if her family

distresses will not allow her (as you say she has lost her
342 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.                 [1S47.

Imother very lately), from the kind pen of Miss Beckedorff,

and hope they will not wait for the messenger, but write
by the post, and that immediately, as soon as this reaches

Iyour hands.
   Still trust to see many more letters in your own hand

writing, and that the cessation of the very severe weather
we have had of late will prove beneficial in restoring your
strength, to enable you to face the farther progress of the
season, which, if your climate is anything like ours, is always

Iworse in February than at Christmas

      am working still hard at my book (of which you will

I I Ihave by this time received the first four hundred pages), but
   cannot get on quite so fast as would, and greatly fear
it will not be out by Christmas.

   SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MISS HERSCHEL.

My dear Aunt, --                                fulfil, 1847.

I Imy                                     will  take this, a copy of
"      send to the messenger         who         hope it will not be
   Cape Observations" for           you,  and

too large for him to take.

IfatYhoeru'swiwllortkh--en"hTahvee  in your hands the completion of my
                                    Survey of the Nebulous Heavens."

hope you will be able to look at the figures (the en

 Igravings of the principal nebulae). As to the letter-press,

. the Introduction will perhaps interest you, and daresay

Miss Beckedorff or Mde. Knipping will be kind enough to
read it to you -- a little at a time.

A copy is on its way T presume by this tune to His Ma

jesty the King of Hanover, as a testimony of respect to a

sovereign who has shown you on many occasions such kind

attentions.

Louisa sends you all our news, and the autographs of
Chap, vii.]  Latter Days.  343

Struve and Adams, who, with M. Leverrier, are now at
Collingwood.

                                   Adieu, dear aunt,
                   From your ever-affectionate nephew,

                                     J. F. W. Herschel.

    But the time was past when such gifts could be
acknowledged with the old enthusiasm, though the
faculty to appreciate them had not failed, and we can
well imagine how nothing in the power of man to

bestow could have given her such pleasure on her
death-bed as this last crowning completion of her
brother's work.

    The Day-book had long ceased. The final entry,
on 3rd September, 1845, is " Astronomischen Nach-
richten * came in." As the letters show, the never-
failing birthday festival had been gallantly encountered,
and the accustomed offerings of her many friends with
 their good wishes, always including those of the Eoyal
 Family, received in the usual place. But the cm-tain
 begins to descend, and the months to go by with only
 a bulletin to announce that she still lived, and, as the
 following extract from a letter written by her friend
 Miss Beckedorff shows, with unabated will and perfectly

 collected faculties --: ·

    Her decided objection to having her bed placed in a
 warmer room had brought on a cold and cough, and so firm

     * The days on which this periodical arrived are always noted in the Day

  books.
344 Caroline Lucretia HerscJiel.                       [1S4S.

was her determination to preserve her old customs, and not

Ito yield to increasing infirmities, that when, upon Dr. 31. 's

positive orders, had a bed made up in her room, before
she came to sit in it one day, it was not till two o'clock in

Ithe night that Betty could persuade her to lie down in it.

Upon going to her the next morning, had the satisfaction,

however, of finding her perfectly reconciled to the arrange

ment ; she now felt the comfort of being undisturbed, and
she has kept to her bed ever since. Her mental and bodily

strength is gradually declining, and although she at times

... Irallies wonderfully, we can hardly expect that another
month will elapse ere have to make nry sad and last

report.       She says that she is without pain ; fever has

left her, and her pulse is regular and good, though weak at

times. She still turns and even raises herself without
                                                       A few
assistance, and at times converses with us

days ago she was  ready for  a joke.            When   Mrs. Clarke told
her that General  Halkett    sent his           love,  and " hoped she

would soon be so well again that he might come and give

her a kiss, as

Iarchly at her,
              he had done  on her birthday,"           she looked very
                                                       that have not
              and said, "  Tell the General
I Itasted anything since liked so well."
                                                       have just left her,

Inanedpheuwp,onshemysaiads, k"ingTelhletrhetmogiveme a message for her
                             that              am good for nothing,"

and went to sleep again      She is not averse to seeing

visitors.

January 6th.

   Four days later the same kind friend had to tell
how peacefully and gently the end came at last.

   Jan. 10th, 1848. --Your excellent aunt, my kind revered

friend, breathed her last at eleven o'clock last night, the 9th
of January. . . . She suffered but little, and went to sleep
Chap, vii.]  The Long Life is Ended.  345

at last with scarcely a struggle. Up to the last moment she

has had the most undeniable proofs of the affection and

veneration of her own family and a number of friends, both

English and German. Mr. Wilkinson, the English clergy

man, has been unremitting in his visits, and so kind and

judicious was his manner, that she received them to the

last with unfeigned satisfaction  At four o'clock the
guns announced the birth of a young Princess --an event

she had anticipated with much interest ; and upon her being

told of it she opened her eyes for the last time with con

sciousness.

   The following, translated from a letter of Miss

Herschel's niece, Mrs. Knipping, to her cousin, Sir J.

Herschel, is a most precious fragment, expressing the
sentiments of one who for years contributed to lighten
the grievous burden of age and growing infirmity by

her constant affection and appreciative sympathy.
The regret that so little remains from the same pen is
enhanced by the fact that no notes, or memorials of
any kind, appear to exist by which we might hope to

picture to ourselves one whose unconscious self-por
traiture makes us crave to see and know and become

familiarly acquainted with her, as she was seen and
known by others. Comparatively recent as was her
death, to the best of our knowledge all have passed away

from whose lips we could hope to gather the impressions
of personal acquaintance. Excepting from the letters
already quoted on the occasion of her nephew's two

visits to Hanover, it is not until she lay on her death
346 Caroline Lucretia Herschel.    [ms.

bed that we obtain a glimpse of her drawn by any
other hand than her own.

.... I January 13, 1848.
               felt almost a sense of joyful relief at the death
of my aunt, in the thought that now the unquiet heart was

at rest. All that she had of love to give was concentrated
on her beloved brother. At his death she felt herself alone.

For after those long years of separation she could not but

find us all strange to her, and no one could ever replace his

loss. Time did indeed lessen and soften the overpowering

weight of her grief, and then she would regret that she had

ever left England, and condemned herself to live in a coun

Itry where nobody cared for astronomy. shared her regret,
Ibut knew too well that even in England she must have

found the same blank. She looked upon progress in science

as so much detraction from her brother's fame, and even

your investigations would have become a source of estrange

ment had she been with you. She lived altogether in the

past, and she found the present not only strange but annoy

ing. Now, thank God, she has gone where she will find
I Iagain all that she loved.
shall long feel her loss, for

prized and loved her dearly, and it is to me a most pre

cious recollection that she loved me best of all those here,

admitted me to closer intimacy, and allowed me to know

something even of her inner lile.

   All the necessary instructions about her property,

her house, her burial, she had written years before ;
even the sum which she considered sufficient had been

carefully set apart for the funeral expenses, and every
thing, down to the minutest trifle, had been arranged,

so that her executor, Sir John Herschel, might have
Chap, vii.]  The End of All.                              347

the least possible trouble. She especially prayed him
not to come should her death occur in the winter ; but
the reiterated instructions through the long series of

letters show how keen was her anxiety that whatever
she possessed of value should pass into his hands, and
that no one of her Hanoverian connections, with the
exception of Mrs. Knipping [who, with Miss Becke-
dorff, was entrusted with her keys], should inter
meddle. She desired to be laid beside her father and
mother, and an inscription * of her own composition
records how she was her brother's assistant, &c. She
was followed to the grave by many relations and
friends, the Eoyal carriages forming part of the pro
cession ; the coffin was covered with garlands of
laurel and cypress and palm branches sent by the
Crown Princess from Herrnhausen, and the holy

words spoken over it were uttered in that same

garrison church in which, nearly a century before, she
had been christened, and afterwards confirmed. One

direction she could not put on paper, but she desired
Mrs. Knipping to place in her coffin a lock of her
beloved brother's hair and an old, almost obliterated,,

almanack that had been used by her father.

             * The inscription is given in the Appendix.
«

                    \

                                                                   I
        APPENDIX.

   The inventory of the books, pictures, &c, in the sitting-
room of No. 376 Braunschweiger Strass, is too character
istic to be omitted. The following is a copy of it : --

    Inventory of engravings,  all in good black frames,  with  gilded
beads, and glazed : --

  My Nephew, J. H.
My Mother.

A drawing of Slough, by J. Herschel.
My Brother, Lithographed.

Forty-foot Telescope.
Medallion of Win. H., by Flaxman, of 1782.

Ditto,  by Lochie, of 1787.

Engraving of Dr. Maskelyne, and

Greenwich Observatory (presented to me by himself).

                                          BOOKS.

   Bode's Atlas.
   South's Observations on Double and Treble Stars, from Phil.
Transactions, Vol. J.., 1826.
   South's Discordance between the Sun's observed and computed

Place. 1826.

   On the Elements and Orbit of Halley's Comet, &c, by Lieut. W. S.

Stratford, 1837.

   Preface to, &c, &c, of a General Astronomical Catalogue, by !?·

Wollaston, 1789.

  J. H.'s Fourth Series of Observations with a twenty-foot Beflector,

containing the places of 1236 Double Stars.
   Stars in the Southern Hemisphere, observed at Paramatta, in New

South Wales, by J. Dunlop, 1828.

   Astronom. Nachrichtens, from 1833 to 1839, in 7 vols, (half bound).
   Emerson's Treatise of Arithmetic
350 Appendix.

  Introduction to Sir I. Newton's Philosophy, -with an Essay on, &c,
by John Kyland, M.A. (Mem. --A Keepsake of General Komer-

zeusky to me, and now the same to my dear Nephew from his affec
tionate Aunt, C. H.)

   Salmon's Geographical and Astronomical Grammar.

Ferguson's Astronomy.

Watson's   Universal  VGoalz. eXtteIeI.r,.  1822.
Quarterly   Journal,

Quarterly Review, July,1832.

Edinburgh Review, January, 1834.

   The Connection of Physical Science, by Mrs. Somerville, 183d.

  I J.Third Vol. of Johanna Baillio's Plays. (Mem. --Was given me by-

Lady H. tho day before loft England, to remember my friend, B.

 IJohn F. Wm. Herschel's Discourses on Nat. Philosophy, which was

published in Dr. Lardner's Cabinet, and that on Astronomy, had
Ihandsomely bound and presented them to the Duke of Cambridge,

who asked them of me, and would not even wait till could read

them through myself.

   Gbttinger Anzeigen, 202, 203 Stuck, Dec 14, 1833.

  J. Herschel's Papers, from January 12th, 1828, to Nov. 11th, 1833.

Bound and directed to the Duke of Cambridge (from C. H.).
   Eighteen of Wm. H.'s Papers, collected and bound in one volume,

and directed for Hauptman Muller.

Uber den Neuentdecken Planeten, by Bode, 1784.

Introduction to English Grammar, by E. South.

1st and 2nd Vols, of Pfafs Translation of Herschel's Samptlichen

Schriften, 1826 (collected works).

  IAbominable stuff ! What is to be done with them ? They are so

prettily bound, cannot take it in my heart to burn them.

   Landing place and five back rooms contain nothing but what is
necessary for tho convenience of my servant and myself; and is
mostly bought at the fairs, for a trifling price. (Tables and chairs
stained like mahogany, the latter with cano bottoms, at lSd. a-piece,
are, after seven years' use, like new.)

  Landing-place : A clothes-press, a glass globe, a few chairs.
   My Bedroom: A bedstead and bedding, &o., &c 70 thl. dressing-
glass, mahogany framo, plate 22 by 14 inches. (I brought it with mo

from England.)

  A cupboard containing tea things, &c, for company. Urn, tea-
board, &c, waiter, two teapots, milk-pot, and slop-bason (black

Wedgwood).
Appendix.                                     351

   A few cups and saucers, coffee-pot, two glass plates, one and half
-dozen bishop glasses, tumblers, cake-basket, &c

   Plate: Ha! ha! ha! ha!

    Twelvo teaspoons, 1 sugar-tongs, 1 table, 1 dessert, and 1 saltspoon,

4 plated candlesticks, very little used.

    The superscription on the Last page is as follows : --

  IIt is a pity that am not at Slough to put the glazed prints in my

nephew's study ; and many articles of furniture would be so useful in
the school-room of my littlo nephews and nieces. God bless them all !

EPITAPH OF MISS HERSCHEL.

     Hier ruhot die irdische Hiille von    ,
              Carolina Herschel,

Geboren zu Hannover den lCtc" Marz, 1750,
       Gestorben den 9l»n Januar, 1848.

   Der Blick dor Verkliirten war hionieden dem gestirnten Himmel
zugewandt, die eigenen Cometen Entdeckungen, und die Theilnahme
an den unsterblichen Arbeiten ihres Bruders, Wilhelm Herschel,

zeugen davon bis in dio spate Nachwelt.
   Die Konigliche Irlandische Akademie zu Dublin und die Konigliche

Astronomische Gesellschaft in London zahlton sie zu ihren Mitgliedern.

   In den Alter von 97 Jahren 10 Monathen entschlief sie mit heiterer

Kuhe und bei volliger Geisteskraft, ihrem zu einem besseron Leben
vorangegangenen Vater Isaac Herschel folgend der ein Lebensalter
von 60 Jahren, 2 Monathen, 17 Tagen orreichto und seit den 25tc"

Marz, 1767, hierneben begraben liegt.

                                              [Translation.']

                            Here rests tho earthly exterior of
                                Caroline Herschel,

                          Born at Hanover, March 16, 1750,
                                    Died January 9, 1848.

   The eyes of Her who is glorified wero hero below turned to the starry
Heavens. Her own Discoveries of Comets, and her participation in the
352 Appendix.

immortal Labours of her Brother, William Herschel, bear witness of
this to future ages.

   The Royal Irish Academy of Dublin, and the Eoyal Astronomical
Society of London enrolled Her name among their Members.

  At the age of 97 years 10 months she fell asleep in calm rest, and
in the full possession of her faculties, following into a better Life her
Father, Isaac Herschel, who lived to the age of 60 years 2 months

17 days, and lies buried not far off, since the 29th of March, 1767.

THE GRAVE OF CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

FROM MISS BECKEDORFF.

                                                   Feb. 4, 1850.
"... If I have owned my having neglected visiting Sir John's living
Irelations, it has not been the same with the churchyard.  have now

been confined with cold and fever seven weeks, but one of my last
visits was to our lamented friend's grave, which, with the stone and

Iinscription on it, was in perfect order. On the 16th of March
'                                                  knowing that

        is

      Ia
                        is

                   I is
                     I

                                                                                                   ;

                                  I

                                                                  a it,

                                         I

                                                                                                                                   ''
intend to have a bush of white roses planted near

my good mother would have paid her that little tribute had she out

lived her revered friend. The white rose she had planted on the grave

of Mrs. P. (?) in the same churchyard (the mutual friend of both)
continuo to blossom every year, and now are a memorial to me and

my good mother likewise."

FROM HERR WINXECKE (Assist. Astron. at Pulkowa.)

" Travelling few days ago through Hanover, seized the oppor

tunity of visiting Miss Caroline's grave. Pastor Eichter, her grand-

nephew, took me to it. It in the churchyard of the Garten-

gemeinde,' and in a good state of preservation a heavy slab lies on

it, on which engraved a long inscription, composed by Miss Caroline

herself. At the head planted a rose-bush, from which gathered

the leaves which enclose.  venture also to send two shadow-

outlines of Miss Caroline, which had taken from silhouette in the,
possession of Frau Dr. Groskopff."

                                                   June 26, 1864.
                                      INDEX.

                        ACADEMY.                                           HEBSC'HEL.
Academy, R. Irish, 300.
Astronomical Society of London, 221,             Earthquake at Lisbon, sensation pro

    271.                                            duced in Hanover, t.
Aubert, Alex., letter from Miss Her-
                                                 Encke, Prof. , letter to Miss Herschel,
    schel on discovering her first comet,
    66 ; her third comet, 86.                        248.

Baily, F., letter from Miss Herschel,            Engleficld, Sir H., letter from W.
                                      with his      Herschel on his sister's second
2"7A2-c2c7o4un;t  letter to her       281 ; her
                  of Flamsteed,"                    comet, 83.
                                                 Epitaph on Miss Herschel, 351.
                                                 Etna, Mount, ascent by Sir John

                                                    Herschol, 173.

answer, 282.
Baldwin, Miss, her marriage, 129 ;
                                                 Flamstecd's Catalogue, calculations
   death,    132.   letter  from      William       for, 60.
Banks,
           Sir J.,                               Forty-foot telescope, 76, 308, 309,
Herschel en his sister's second
                                                     310.

comet, 84 ; from Miss Herschel on                Gauss, Hofrath, letter from Miss
her third comet, 85 ; and her
                                                 Herschel, with her index to Flam-
eighth, 94.

BeckedorfT, Miss, letters during the             steed's Observations, 191 ; his an
latter years of Miss Herschel's life,
                                                    swer,  I1I9I5..
338-340, 343-345.                                George              visits  the Slough  Obser
BeckedorfT, Mrs., 108.
Blagden, Dr., letter from Miss Her               vatory, 104 ; anecdote of, and tho

                                                 Archb. of Canterbury, 309.

schel about her first comet, 65.                 Georgian Satellites, the, 74, 305,
Brewster, Sir David, opinion of Miss
                                                 316.

Herschel's catalogue of all the star-            Georgium Sidus, the, discovered, 39.
                                                 Gloucester, Princess Sophia, of, visit
clusters and Nebula;, 145, 146.                     to the telescope, 128.

Cambridge, Duke of, letter to Miss               Halley's Comet, 288.
Herschel on the return of her                    Herschel, Alex., assists his brother

   nephew from       the  C--apSei,r  292.  Her     William, 36, 53, 109, 111, 115,
Cape of Good        Hope                             122; returns to Hanover, 125;
                                      John          death, 132 ; notice of, 132.

schel leaves the Cape, 292.                      Herschel, Caroline Lucretia, early
                                                     recollections, 1-28 ; affection for
Collingwood, the seat of the Herschel               her brother William, 9 ; at the

famuy, 320.                                          Garrison school, 11 ; her father's
Comets, Miss Herschel's first, 64 ;                  careful training, 13 ; typhus fever,
second, 80 ; third, 85 ; fifth, sixth,               15 ; confirmation, 17 ; learns dress
                                                    making, 21 ; accompanies William
98 ; eighth, 94.                                    to England, 26-28 ; life in Bath,
Cumberland, Duke of, proclaimed                      29-50 ; Hcimwehe, 33 ; visit to
king of Hanover, 290.
                                                                                  AA
Dessau, Princess of Anhalt, letter to
   Miss Herschel, 267.
354 Index.

                        HERSCHEL.                             Li. LANDE.
                                            visits his aunt, 177, 293 ; Secretorv
    Mrs. Colebrook, 34 ; musical re         to the Royal Society, 181 ; at
    hearsals, 36 ; reputation as a singer,  Montpclier, 201 ; catalogue of
    40 ; assists her brother, 42 ; life at  double stars, 213 ; his marriage,
                                            236 ; describes his aunt, 254 ; anec
    Datchet, 50 ; accidents, 55 ; Clay      dotes of his boyhood, 259 ; letters
   Hall, 57 ; Slough, 58 ; Flamsteed's
    Catalogue, 60, 61 ; her mcctps, 64,     from the Cape, 263 ; sweeping,
    146-148 ; first comet, 64 ; salary      266 ; the Milky Way, 270 ; Hoileys
    of 50J. as her brother's assistant,     comet, 283 ; spots on the sun, 2S6,
    75 ; her eight comets, 80-94 ; lives    287 ; Saturn's sixth satellite, 238,
   by herself, 95 ; Index to Flam-
    steed's Observations, 96 ; extracts     289 ; returns to England, 292 ;
                                            created a baronet, 305 ; on the
    from diary, 98-132 ; at Bath, 105 ;     Ononis star, 316 ; eclipse of the
    at Slough, 107 ; removes to Chalvy,     sun in 1842, 327 ; his chrysotype
    108 ; resides at Upton, 109 ; re                                                of Schil
    turns to Hanover on the death of        lpeirc'tsure"s,W3a2l7k,";  translation  acknow
                                                                        328, 329 ;
    her brother, 133 ; Itccollcclions,      ledges his aunt's history, 333.
    133-140; her works, 145; bitter         Herschel, Lady,                       from Miss
   disappointment in her brother               Herschel, 152           letters    her death,
   Dietrich's family, 1 49 ; letters,
   152 ; Catalogue of the Nebula?,                                     ct scq. ;
   181 ; her will, 200 ; presentation
                                            252.
   of the Gold Medal of the Royal
                                            Herschel, Sir William, early display
    Astronomical Society, 221 ; her            of talents, 3 ; proficiency in music,
                                               7 ; accompanies his regiment to
    portrait, 237, 338 ; Paganini, 247 ;       England, 8 ; resides at Bath, 21 ;
    her nephew's visit, 254 ; anecdotes        fetches his sister Caroline, 26 ; his
    of his boyish amusements, 259 ;            musical compositions, 36 ; erection
   Hon. Member of the Royal Astro              of the twenty-foot telescope, 37 ;
    nomical Society, 271 ; letter from
   Mrs. Somcrville, 274 ; illumina           jdiscovers the Georgium Sidus, 39 ;
   tion in honour of the Duke of
   Cumberland being proclaimed king            casting of the great mirror, 43 ;
   of Hanover, 290 ; visit of her              goes to London and is introduce
   nephew and his son, 293-295 ; Hon.
   Member of the R. Irish Academy,          to the King, 45 ; Royal Astronomer,
                                            50 ; limited salary, 50 ; removes
    300 ; extracts from day-book, 303-      to Datchet, 50; to Clay Hall,
   307 ; anecdotes of the forty-foot        57 ; to Slough, 58 ; the Georgian
                                            Satellites, 74 ; marriage, 78 ; ob
    telescope, 308, 309 ; describes         servations on his sister's comet,
   Christmas in Germany, 313 ; her          84, 85 ; his failing health, 124 ;
                                            sits for his portrait, 129; death,
    92nd birthday, 318; begins the his
   tory of the Herschcls, 324 ; her         133.
   93rd birthday, 330; the first
   railway between Hanover and              Hesse, Princess of, letter to Miss
   Braunschweig, 334; presented with
   a gold medal by the king of                 Herschel, 267.
    Prussia, 336 ; her last letter, 337 ;   Humboldt, Alex, von, letter to Miss
    enters her 98th year, 339 ; her         Herschel, with the Gold Medal for
   death, 344 ; funeral, 347 ; epitaph,     Science from the king of Prussia,
   351 ; her grave, 352.
Herschel, Sir John, first mention of,       336, 337.
   104; at Cambridge, 117; senior
   wrangler, 120 ; member of the Uni        Knipping, lime., extract from letter
   versity of GOttingen, 125 ; ascends         upon Miss Herschel's death, 346.
   Mount Etna, 172 ; at Munich, 175 ;
                                            Lind, James,  100.         to         Miss Her
                                                          de, letter
                                            La Lande, J.
                                            schel, 89 ; her answer, 91.
                                 Index.                                       355

                           MORGAN.                           ZODIACAL.

Morgan, A. de, letter from Miss          Schumacher, Prof., letter from Miss
   Herschel on being elected Hon.
   Member of the B. A. Society, 271.     Herschel, 260.

Mars, observations on, 53.               Scorpio, 258, 266.
Maskelyne, Rev. Dr., letter from         Seyffer, Prof., letter to Miss Herschel,

   Miss Herschel, on discovering her     92.
   second comet, 80 ; on the Index to
                                         Somerville, Mrs.,   "letCteornnteoxiMonissofHtehre
    Flamsteed's Observations, 96.           schel, with her

                                         SouPthhy, sicJa.,l  Sciences," 274.  194;  his
                                                              his 400 stars,

Nebula;, the, 196-198.                   address to the Astronomical Society
Nebulae, the Cape, and double stars,
                                            on presenting the hon. medal to
    328.                                    Miss Herschel, 222-227.
                                         Stewart, P., letter from Miss Her
Ole Bull, the violinist, 306.
Orange, Prince of, at Slough, 99.        schel, 277.
Ononis, o, a variable and periodical
                                         Sun, spots on the, 286, 287.
   star, 316.                            "Survey of the Nebulous Heavens,"
                                         the conclusion of Sir W. Herschel's
Piazzi, Abbe, at Slough, 55 ; at
   Catania, 173.                         vast undertaking, 341.

Pigott, Ed., letter to Miss Herschel     Sweepings for comets, 146-148.
   on the Flamsteed Catalogue, 101.
                                         Telescope, the forty-foot, anecdotes
                                            of, 308, 809 ; its final preservation,
                                             310.

Railway, first, betwe en Hanover and     Watson, Sir W., first acquaintance
                                            with W. Herschel, 42.
   Braunschweig, 334.
Ross, Capt., his return with the         Wilson, Alex., notice of, 99.

   South Polar Expedition, 333, 334.

Schiller's " Walk,"  translated  by Sir  Zodiacal light, the, 331.
  J. Herschel, 328,  329.

                                 THE END.

BRaDSmtV, a0NEW, & CO., PRUfTERS, WHITErRIaRS.
                                                  50a, Albemarle Street, London,
                                                                       January, 1&7(j.

                    MR. MURRAY'S

        GENERAL LIST OF WORKS.

ALBERT (The) MEMORIAL. A Descriptive and Illustrated
atDAitoeenesKscoe,ranipnstgti(incvPoguefrtlopitnhnTteu.ecrxeeNtd).aIltliuoBGsnSytrMropauDetpeeoMsdcv,ohnnesShustymUat.eEunnBeatgsbnr.aledlvr.eMinctogeWAssdadiitcdothsorf,e2tishttsMsePeelAsatPartRcelvhsIoi.NtrwekCc,iFttEouhlrieoAC,.cO.aNnDUSeIOW.clo2RIirntsTah.
ALBERt1rT0ojtd.u6Dcttf.iUo;nR,oErgRPivo;ipnuglahrsiosmEdeitLiooiufnet,linfecaapno.df 8hviosW. CohrIakffrs.a.cter.ByWiDthr.PorTtrhaiat.usi8svgo,.
Keeper of Archduke                 Albert's       Art Collection at Vienna. Translated
lroru the German.                    With         Portrait Illustrations.  Medium 8vo.

ABBOTT'S (Rev. J.) Memoirs of a Church of England                           [Jn the Press
                                                                           Missionary'
           in the North American Colonies. Post 8vo. 2j.
ABERCROMBIE'S (John) Enquiries concerning the Intellectual
Powers and the Investigation of Truth. Fcap. 8vo. 3a. 6d.
                     Philosophy of the Moral feelings. Fcap. 8vo.
2*. M.
ACLAND'S (Rev. Charles) Popular
                                                  Account of the Manners and
            Customs of India. Post 8vo. 2s.
.fiSOP'S FABLES. A New Version. With
                                                      Historical Preface.
           By Rev. Thomas James. With 100 Woodcuts,  by Tbnnibl and Wolit.
             Post 8vo. 2*. 6d.
AGRICULTURAL         (Royal) JOURNAL. (PuMislied
AIDS TO FAITH                                                              half yearly.)
                     : a Series of Theological Essays.
                                   C0XTknT3.                                 8vo. 9s.

MineUt                                            Dean Mansel.
Evidences of Christianity          . . . Bishop Fitzgerald.
Prophecy d- Mosaic Heard of Creation . Dr. McCaul.
Ideology and Subscription . . . Canon Coob.
The Pentateuch                                         Canon Rawli*SON.
Inspiration                        .                  Bishop Harold Bsowsb.
                                                       Ahchbishop Thomson.
Death of Christ                                   . Bisuop ElliCOTT,
Scripture and Us Interpretation

AMBER-WITCH (The).                  A most         interesting  Trial        for     Witch
                                                  Gobdos. Post             is.
             craft. Translated by  Lady Duff                    8vo.
ARMY LIST (The). Published Monthly by AutliorUy.
ARTHUR'S (Little) History of England. By Ladt Calloott.
                New  Edition, continued to 1872.  With 38 Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo. la. 6d.
                                                  General Jurisprudence; or, the
AUSTIN'S               (John) Lectures on

Philosophy of Positive La*. Edited by Robsbt Campbell. 2 Vola.
8vo. S-is.

                     Student's Edition, compiled from the above work.
Post 8vo. 12s.
ARNOLD'S (Tnos.) Ecclesiastical and Secular Architecture of
Hcotland : The Abbeys, Churches, Castles, and Mansions. With Illus
trations. Mcdium8vo.                                                       [In Preparation.

                                                                                  B
                 LIST OF WORKS

ADMIRCoAmLmTisYsionPeUrsBoLfItCheATAdIOmNiraSlty:;--Issued by direction of the Lord*

A  MANUAL OF SCIENTIFIC            ENQUIRY, for the Use of Travellers.
                                   Robsbt Maib.M.A. Woodcuta. Post
        Fourth Edition. Edited by

   hvo. 3s. 6d.

GREENWICH ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1841 to I84S,

          aad 1847 to 1671. Royal 4to. 20s. each.

MAGNETICAL AND METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 1840

          to 1847. Royal 4to. 20s. each.

APPENDICES TO OBSERVATIONS.
          Logarithms of Sines and Cosines In Time.- Ss.
   1837.  Catalogue of 1439 Stars, from Observation made                    In 1836 to
   1842.
          1841. is.
   1S45. Longitnde of Valentia (Chronometrical). 3s.
          Description of Altazimuth. 3s.
   1847.  Twelve Years' Catalogue of Stars, from                            Observations  made

          In 1836 to 1847. 4s.
          Description of Photographic Apparatus. 2s.
          Maskelyne's Ledger of Stars. 3s.
   1851.                                                              3s.
   1852.  I. Description of the Transit Circle.
   1h5S. Refradtion Tables. 8s.
   1854. Description of the Zenith Tube. Ss.
          Six Years' Catalogue of Stars, from Observation!.                               1848 to

                     1833. 4s.                                                            1851 to
   1962. Seven Years' Catalogue of Stars, from Observations.

                 1860. 10s.

          Plan of Ground Buildings. 3s.
   1864. LMoonagnit'nsdSeemofidV. aflreonmtiaOc(Gcuaplvaatnioicn)s.,  2s.

                                                                       is.
          Planetary Observations, 1831 to 1835. 2s.
   1868. Correctious of Elements of Jupiter and Saturn. 2s.
          Second Seven Years' Catalogue of -.'760 Stars for 1861 to

          1667. 4s.
          Description of the Great Equatorial. 3s.
   1S56. Descriptive Chronograph. 3s.
   1660. Reduction of Deep Thermometer Observations. 2s.
   1871. History and Description of Water Telescope. 3s.

   Cape of Good Hope Observations (Star Ledgers). 1856 to 1863. 2s.
                              : 1836. 6s.

                                     Astronomical Results. 1857tol85S.

   Report on Teneriffe Astronomical Experiment. 1856. 5s.
   Paramatta Catalogue of 7385 Stars. 1822 to 1826. 4s.

ASTRONOMICAL RESULTS. 1847 to 1871. 4to. 3s. each.

MAGNETICAL AND METEOROLOGICAL RESULTS. 1847 to
   1871. 4ro. 3s. each.

REDUCTION OF THE OBSERVATIONS OF PLANETS. 1750 to
   1830. Royal4to. 20s. each.

   ito 1830.                           LUNAR OBSERVATIONS. 1750

              Vols. Royal 4to. 20s. each.

                                   lS31tol851. 4to. lOs.each.

BERNOULLI'S 8EXCENTENARY TABLE. 1779. 4to. 5s.

BESSEL'S AUXILIARY TABLES FOR HIS METHOD OF CLEAR
        ING LUNAR DISTANCES. 8vo. -.'s.

ENCKE'S BERLINER JAHRBUCH, for 1830. Berlin, 1888. 8vo. Si.
HANSEN'S TABLES DE LA LUNE. 4to. 20s.
LAX'S TABLES FOR FINDING THE LATITUDE AND LONGI

        TUDE. 1821. 8vo. 10s.
            PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.

Admiralty Publications-- continued.

LUNAR OBSERVATIONS at GREENWICH. 1783 to 1819. Compared
        with the Tables, 1821. 4to. Is. 6d.

MACLEAR ON LACAILLE'S ARC OF MERIDIAN. 2 Vols. 20s.each.

MAYER'S DISTANCES           of the MOON'S          CENTRE      from the
       PLANETS. 1S22, 3s.;   1823, ii.6d. 1824 to               4). each.
                                                   1835. Bvn.

            TABUL»E MOTUUM SOLIS ET LUN.fi. 1770. bs.

      ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS MADE                           AT DOT
TING EN, from 1756 to 1761. 1826. Folio. 7l. 6d.

NAUTICAL ALMANACS, from 1767 to 1877. is. W. each,

                          SELECTIONS FROM, up to 1812. 8vo. 5l.

1834-54. bs.              SUPPLEMENTS, 1828 to 1833, 1837 and 1838.

2s. each.

                          TABLE requisite to be used with the N.A.

1781. 8vo. 5s.
SABINE'S PENDULUM EXPERIMENTS to Dbter»uxi th« Fioubf.
OF thE Earth. 1825. 4to. 40s.
SHEPHERD'S TABLES for Cobeictmq Lunab Distaxces. 1772.
Royal 4to. 21s.
           TABLES, GENERAL, of the MOON'S DISTANCE
from the SUN, and 10 STARS. 1787. Folio, bs. 6d.
TAYLOR'S SEXAGESIMAL TABLE. 1780. 4to. 15s.
            TABLES OF LOGARITHMS. 4to. 60s.
TIARK'S ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS for the Longitude
ofMAdKlbA. 1822. 4to. fi«.
. CHRONOMETRICAL OBSERVATIONS for Difperences
of Loxoitude between Dover, Portsmouth, and Falmouth. 1828.

VEi";4sto.      bs.       Orseryations of, compared  with the Tablis.

            and JUPITER:
London, 1822. 410. 2s.

WALES' AND BAYLY'S ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS.
1777. 4to. 21 '.
            REDUCTION OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS
mAhK IX thE SOUThlbh liKMJsPHbbE. 1764--1771. 1788. 4tO.
I0s.6d.

BARBAULD'S (Mrs.) Hymns in Prose for Children. With
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

BARROW'S (Sib John) Autobiographical Memoir, from Early
Life to Advanced Ai;o. Portrait. 8vo. 16l.
            (John) Life, Exploits, and Voyages of Sir Francis
            Drake. Post 8vo. is.
                                                   By Casoh Barry.
BARRY'S (Sir Charles) Life and Works.
With Portrait and Illustrations. Medinm 8vo. 15s.
BATES' (H. W.) Records of a Naturalist on the River Amazon

             during eleven years of Adventure and Travel. Illustrations. Post 8vo.

7s. Ud.
BAX'S (Captain) Russian Tartary, Eastern Siberia, China, Japan,
and Formosa. A Narrative of a Cruise in the Eastern Seas. With
Map and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 125.
BEAUCLERK'S (Laby Diana) Summer and Winter in Norway.

            With Illustrations. Small Svo. <,s.
BELCHEIt'S (Lady) Account of the Mutineers of the 'Bonnty,'
and their Descendants; with thsfr Settlements in Pitcairn and Norfolk
Islands. With Illustrations. Post 8vo. 12s.
BELL'S (Sir Cdas.) Familiar Letters. Portrait Post 8vo. 12s.
4 LIST OF WORKS

BELT'S (Thos.)               Naturalift in Nicaragua, including a Resi
               dence at Hie  Gold Mines of Chontales ; with  Journeys in the Savannshs
             and Forests;      and Observations ou Animals   and Plants. Illustrations.

             Post bvo. 12*.                   the Sea: an Account of British
                                              of Fisheries and Fisher Folk. With
BERTRAM'S (Jas. G.) Harvest of

             Food Fishes, Inclnding sketches
BVIBolL. EI.aA5VM0NoeR((IICIIlIdGJlb.GE,LNODblKi)uOLuvxmVeUaelessSImoiM,vn.u>CMtmsO,dreBiti2GNAatuoSesEiMihE0tkaNsh,cinRiv>sh.o*.ouSo.E,e.no.n.CsmsNfo.ClR.IbKitVTaHchtVO.honAeoLK,lrn8.RRI,TC.vEVCoYrlK.asIISH.S..tna,,h,.smV8eSls0aurO.aEE.tesE.idz.lo.xi-tnVep.dolalsVbVn.«AyBooa.nlylF.tI.,,oI.-I.VVCr1ItVy-tI.Ia.8.CnIdoI(|IO|fI(oJIJaPDEPSbMPiesolscor,nSaarZalioaCnend.lnFM.lavoI,mmoK.i.fFnaerIhsAn.Bi3.olCMa..dc6lf,P.hsa*r.r.S.iCCSotraoiLpFcnVlBEhoooa.meRnll.to..Gson.fYI.VExWo,ef t2iett4hhrse..
                                                             {1"
                                                                                                             :
BIRCH'S (Samuel) History of Ancient Tottery and Porcelain

            Egyptian, Assyrian, Greek, Roman, and Etruscan. With Coloured
             Plates aud 200 Illustrations. Medium 8ro. 42s.

BIRD'S (Isabella) Hawaiian Archipelago; or Six Months Among

             the Palm Grove", Corsl Reefs, and Voicances of the Sandwich Islands.
            With Illustrations. CrownSro. 12s.

BISSET'S (Akorew) History of the Commonwealth of England,

             from the Death or Charles to the Expulsion of the Long Parliament
           by Cromwell. Chiefly from the MSS. in the Shite Paper Office. vols.
            8vo. St*.

                (General) Sport and War in South Africa from 18S4
            to 1867, with a Narrative of the Duke of Edinburgh's Visit. With

             Map and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 14a.
                             I.

                                                    :
                                                                             4
                                                                                          :

                                                                                                     2
BLACKSTONES COMMENTAUIES adapted to the Present
State of the Law. My R. Malcolm Kfbu. LL.D. Uni*ed Edition,
J.incorporating all the Recent Chune.es in the Law.          vols. 8vo.
BLUET'S (Rey. J.) Undesigned Coincidences in the Writings of
the Old and New Testaments, an Argument of their Veracity containing
the Hooks of Moses, Historical and Prophetical Sctiptures, and the
Gospels and Acts. Post 8vo. 6s.
History of the Church in the First Three Centuries.

Post 8vo. 6s.

     Parish Priest; His Duties, Acquirements and Obliga

tions. Post 8vo. 6s.

      Lectures on the Right Use of the Early Fathers.

8vo. 9s.
---- University Sermons. Post 8vo. 6s.
Plain Sermons.               vols. Post Svo. 12s.
4
                                                2

                                                                                                       |
BLOMFIELD'S (Bisnop) Memoir, with Selections from his Corre-
spondence. By his Son. Portrait, post 8vo. 12s.
BOS WELL'S (James) Life of Samuel Johnson, LL.D. Including
the Tour to the Hebrides. By Mr. Crobea. Sew Edilitm. Portraits.
vols. 8vo.                                                                                                In Preparation.
BR ACE'S (C. L.) Manual of Ethnology; or the Races of the Old
World. Post 8vo. 6s.
BOOK OF COMMON PRATER. Illustrated with Coloured
Borders, Initial Letters, and Woodcuts. 8vo. 18s.
                      PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.

BORROWS (George) Bible in Spain; or the Journeys, Adventures,
and Imprisonments of an Englishman in an Attempt to circulate the
Scriptures in the Peninsula. Post8vo. 5s.
                      Gypsies of Spain; their Manners, Customs, Re
                      LaanvdeLnagnrgoua;geT. heWiSthchoPolartrra--it.       Post 8vo.
ligion,                                                                The Gypsy       --5sa. nd

                                                                                                  the  Priest.

Post 8vo. 5s.                 Rye -- a Sequel to " Lavengro."                             Post8vo.        5s.
          Romany
        ' Wild Wales : its People, Language, and Scenery.
Pu--st  Svo. 5i.
          Romano              Lavo-Lil ; Word-Book of the Romany, or
English Gyp.y Language; with Specimens of their Poetry, and an
account of certain Uypsyries. Post fclvo. 10s. 6d.

BRAY'S (Mrs.) Life of Thomas Stothard, R.A. With Portrait

             and 60 Woodcuts. 4to. 2ls.

                       Revolt of the Protectants in the Cevennes. With some

Accountof the Huguenots in the Seventeenth Century. Post8vo. lUs.tid.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION REPORTS. 8vo.
York and Oxford, 1831-82, 13s. 6d.
Cambridge, 1833, Pis.                                                  Liverpool, 1854, 18s.
Edinburgh, 1834, 15s.                                                  Glasgow, 1855. 15s.
Dublin, 1835, 13s. 6d.                                                 Cheltenham, 1856, 18s.
Bristol, 1836, 12s.                                                    Dublin, 1857, 15s.
Liverpool, 1837, 16s. 6<f.                                             Leeds. 1858, 20s.
Newcastle, 1838, 15s.                                                  Aberdeen. 1859, 15s.
Birmingham, 1839, 13s. <U.                                             Oxford, 1860, 25s.
                                                                       Manchester, 1861, 15s.
Glasgow, 1840, 15s.                                                    Cambridge, 1862, 20s.
Plymouth, 1841, 13s. M.                                                Newcastle, 1863, 25s.
Manchester, 1842, 10s. W.                                              Rath, 1864, 18s.
Cork, 1843, 12s.                                                       Birmingham, 1865. 25<
York, 1844, 20s.                                                       Nottingham, 1866, 24s.
Cambridge, 1845, 12s.                                                  Dundee, 1867, 26s.
                                                                       Norwich, 1868, 25s.
Southampton, 1846, 15s.                                                Exeter, 1869, 22s.
Oxford, 1847, 18s.                                                     Liverpool, 1870, 18s.
                                                                       Edinburgh, 1871, 16s.
Swansea, 1848, 9s.                                                     Brighton, 1872, 24s.
Birmingham, 1849, 10s.                                                 Bradford, 1873, 25s.
Edinburgh, I850, 15s.                                                  Belfast, 1874.
Ipswich, 1851, 16s. ed.
Belfast, 1S52, 15s.

Hull, 1853, 10s. 6d.

BROUGHTON'S (Lord) Journey through Albania, Turkey in

             Europe and Asia, to Constantinople. Illustrations. 2 Vols. 8vo. 30s.

                          Visiu to Italy. 2 Vols. Post 8vo. 18s.

BROWNLOW'S (Lady) Reminiscences of a Septuagenarian.
From the vear 1802 to 1815 Post8vo. 7s. 6J.
BRUGSCH'S (Professor)               History of Ancient Egypt. Derived
                                   Inscriptions. *Yew luiitiun. Translated by II.
             from MomimiMiis and
Danrv Sbymouii. bvo.                                                                      [/'j Preparation.
BUCKLEY'S (Arabrlla B.) Short History of Natural Science,

             and the Progrer.8 of Discovery from the time of th* Greeks to the
             present day, for Schools and young Persons. Illustrations. Post

Bvo. S<s.                     TJ.ytleWr..)    Christian                                           Memoir  of

BURGON'S              (Rev.                 Post 8vo. 9s.              Gentleman       ;  or,
                      Fraser
             Patrick
                      Letters from Rome. Post 8vo. 12«.
BURN'S (Col.) Dictionary of Naval and Military Technical
             Terms,   English and  French-- French and English.                           Crown 8vo. 15s.
                      (Montagu)      Constitutional Progress.
BURROW'S                                                                                    A Series of
Lectures delivered before the University of Oxford. Post 8vo. 5s.
                              LlST OF WORKS

BUXTON'S            (Charles) Memoirs of Sir Thomas Powell                   Buxton,
                    Willi Selections from his Correspondence.     Portrait.
             Bart.                                                           Bvo. 16s.

     Popular Edition. Fcap. bvo. 5s.

                    Notes of Thought.             With Biographical Sketch.
     By Rev. Li.ewKii.vn Davibs. With Portrait. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6a.

BURCKHARDT'S (Dr.                      Jacob)   Ciceroue ;     or Art Guide to Paint
                                       by Rev.  1,u. A. V. in
           ing in Italy. Kiliti'd                              Zaiix, and Translated Irom
             the German by M us.
                                       A. Clouuii. Post Bvo. Gs.

BYLES' (Sir Joub) Foundations                     of Religion in the Mind and

             Hesrt of Man. Post Svo. 8s.                        By Thomas Moobb.

BYRON'S (Lord) Life, Letters, and                 Journals.     18s.; or One Volume,
     Cabinet Edition.         Plates.    6 Vols.
     Portraits. Kuyal         8vo., 7l.  W.        Fcap. 8vo.    Popular Edition.

                              and Poetical Works.

     Portraits. 2 vols. Royal Svo. 15s.

     Poetical       Works. Library Edition. Portrait. 6 Vol-. Svo. 45s.
                      Cabinet Edition. Plates. 10 Vols. limn. 30s.
                    Pocket Edition. 8 Vols. 24mo. 21s. Inacase.
-- Popular Edition. Plates. Koyal 8vo. 7s. Sd.
                    Pearl Edition. Crown 8vo. 2«. 6d.

               Child* Harold. With 80 Engravings. Crown 8vo. 12s.
                                              16mo. 2s. 6d.

                                     . Vignettes. 16mo. Is.
                                        Portrait. 16mo. 6d.

- Tales and Poems. 24mo. 2s. 6<i.

     - Miscellaneous. 2 Vols. 24mo. 6s.

--,  Dramas and Plays. 2 Vols. 24mo. is.
     Don Juan and Beppo. 2 Vols. 24mo. 6s.

     Beauties. Poetry and Prose. Portrait. Fcap. 8vo. 3».6<i.

BUTTMAN'S Lexilogus ; a Critical Examination                                 of the

     J.Meaning of numerous Greek Words, chiefly in Homer and Hesiod.

     By Rev. R. Fishlabe. 8vo. 12s.

           - Irregular Greek Verbs. With all the Tense3

     J.R.extant-- their Formation, Meaning, and Usage, with Notes, by Rev.

             FlshlAKK. Poat bVO. 6s.

CALLCOTT'S (Lady) Little Arthur's History of England.

           Nan Edition, brought down, to 1872. With Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo.
            U. 6d.

CARNARVON'S (Lord) Portugal,                      Gallicia, and the Risque

             Provinces. Post 8vo. Ss. 6d.

                    Heminiscences of Athens and the Morea. With

     Map. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

                      Recollections of the Druses of Lebanon.                With

     Notes on ttieir Religion. Post 8vo. 5s. 6d.

CASTLEREAGH                    (Thb)     Despatches, from       the commencement
                              ;career  of Viscount Castlereagh  to the close of his life.
             of the official
     12 Vols. 8vo. 14s. each.
                      PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.

CAMPBELL'S (Lord) Lord Chancellors and Keepers of the

             Great Seal of England. From the Earliest Times to the Death of Lord
             Eldon in 1838. lu Vols. Crown ssvo. ti.*. each.

             Chief Justices of England. From the Norman

Conquest to the Death of Lord Tenterden. 4 Vols. Crown 8vo. 6s. each.

            Lords Lyndhurst and Brougham. 8vo. 16s.

                      Shakspeare's Legal Acquirements. 8vo. 5s. M.

                      Lord Bacon. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 8d.

- (Sir Netl) Account of Napoleon at Fontainebleau

            and Elba. Being a Journal of Occurrences and Notes of his Conver.
             ShtiOlha, A>C Portrait. 8vo. 15s.

            (Sir Georoe) India as it may be : an Outline of a

proposed Government and Policy. 8vo.

             (Thos.) Essay on English Poetry.                             With Short
Lives of tho British Poets. Post 8vo. 3s. 6d.

CATHCART'S (Sir Georoe) Commentaries on the War in Kussia

             and Germany, 1812-13. Plans. 8vo. 14s.

CAYALCASELLE and CROWE'S History of Painting in
North Italy,                      tlie Uth to the                         With Illustrations.
- Vols. Svo.          from                         16th         Century.
                       42s.

                       Early Flemish Painters, their Lives and

Works. Illustrations. Post 8vo. 10s. 6rf. ; or Large Paper, 8vo. 15s.

CHILD'S (G. Chaplin, M.D.) Benedicite ; or, Song of the Three

           Children; being Illustrations of the Power, Beneficence, and Design
             manifested by the Creator in his works. Post 8vo. 6s.

CHISHOLM'S (Mrs.) Perils of the Polar Seas; True Stories of

            Arctic Discovery and Adventure. Illustraxions. Post Svo. 6*.

CHURTON'S             P(hAilricphdIeIIa.coannd)   Gongora.      An Historical Essay on the
                      Small 8vo.                 IV. of Spain.
             Age of    Poetical                                   With Translations. Portrait.
             2 Vols.
                                  12s.             Translations           and Imitations.
-- ---
                                  Remains,

Portrait. Post 8vo. 1i. «./.

                     New Testament. Edited with a Plain Practical
           Commentary for Families and General Readers. With 100 Panoramic

             and other Views, from Sketches made on the Spot. 2 vols. 8vo. 2».

CICERO'S Life and Times. His Character as a Statesman,
             Orator, and Friend, with a Selection from his Correspondence and Ora
          tions. By William I'oasyth, M. P. With Illustrations. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

CLARK'S (Sir James) Memoir of Dr. John Conolly. Comprising

            a Sketch of the Treatment of the Insane in Europe and America. With
             Portrait. Post 8vo. 10s. tki.

CLIVE'S (Lord) Life. By Rev. G. R. Glbio. Post8vo. 8s. 6d.
CLODE'S (C. M.) Military Forces of the Crown ; their Administra

              tion and Government. 2 Vols. 8vo. 21s. each.

                Administration of Justice under Military and Martial
            Law, as applicable to the Army, Navy, Marine, and Auxiliary Forces.

             8vo. 12s.

COLCHESTER (The) Papers. The Diary and Correspondence

             of Charles Abbott, Lord Colchester, Speaker of the House of Commons.
             1802-1817. Portrait. 8 Vols. 8vo. 42«.
                               LIST OF WORKS

CHURCH (The) &                 THE AGE.          Essays on the Principles and
                                                Cburcli. 2 vols. 8vo. 20s. Contents: --
             Present Position  of the Anglican

                  Vol. I.                                       Vol. II.
                                                Church and Panperism. -- Karl Nelson.
Anglican Principles.-- Dean Hook,               A iiierican Church; -- Bishop of Western
Modern Religious Thought.-- IJUhop
                                                   Nt-w Yoik.
   Ellicott.                                    Church and Science. -- Prebendary
State, Church, and Synods.-- Rev. Dr.           Clark.
                                                                LNaawt.iu--uaIsi amEtdaurdcaBtirounn.e--i.
   Irons.                                       Ecclesiastical
Religious Use of Table.-- Rev. R. St.           Church &
                                       j Canon Norris.
   John Tyrwhitt,                      | Church and Universities. -- John O.
PlaceoftheLaity,-- ProfessorBurrows.
Farish Priest. -- Rev. Walahnm How.          Talbot.
Divines of 16th and 17th Centuries.             Toleraiion.-- Dean Cowlo.
                                                E* stern Chmch and Anglican Com-
  -- Rev. A. \V. Iladdan.                       inunion.-- Rev. Geo. Williams.
Liturgies and Ritual, Rev. M. F.                A Disestablished  Church.-- Dean     of
                                       (           Cashel.
   Sadlir.
Church & Education.-- Canon Barry.
Indian Missions.-- Sir Bartle Frare.
Church and the People.-- Rev. W. D.                        Traditinn._ Rev. Dr. Irons.
   Maclagan.                           .        Christian  RevC.ouDnrc. ilsW. ei--r. Archdeacon
                                                Dogma. --
Conciliation and Comprehension. --              Parochial
Rev. Dr. Weir.
                                       j Chapman.

COLERIDGE'S (Samuel Taylor) Table-Talk. Portrait. 12mo. 3s. 6rf.

COLLINGWOOD'S (Cuthebrt) Rambles of a Naturalist on the

            Shores and Waters of the China Sea. With Illustrations. 8vo. 16s.

COLONIAL LIBRARY. [See Home and Colonial Library.]

COOK'S (Canon) Sermons Preached at Lincoln's Inn. 8vo. 9«.

COOKE'S (E. W.) Artist's Portfolio. Being Sketches made during
            Tours in Holland, Germaijy, Italy, Egypt, &e. 50 Plates. Royal
           *t0- [In Preparation.

COOKERY (Modern Domestic). Founded on Principles of Economy

             and Practical Knowledge, By a Lady. Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo. 5s.

COOPER'S (T. T.) Travels of a Pioneer of Commerce on an
            Overland Journey from China towards India. Illustraxions. 8vo. 16s.

CORNWALLIS (The) Papers and Correspondence during the

            American War,-- Administrations in India,-- Union with Ireland, and
             Peace of Amiens. 8 Vols. 8vo. CV.u

COWPER'S (Cotjbtesb) Diary while Lady of the Bedchamber
to Caroline, Princess of Wales, 1714--20. Portrait. Svo. 10s. 6d.
CRABBE'S (Rev. George) Life and Poetical Works. With Illus
trations. Royal 8vo. 7s.

CRAWFORD & BALCARRE'S (Earl of) Etruscan Inscriptions.

             Analyzed, Translated, and Commented upnn. 8vo. 12s.
                                       Argo ; or the Quest of the Golden
Fleece. In Ten Books. 8vo.
CHOKERS (J. W.)
                               Progressive      Geography for Children.
           18mo. U.6d.

Stories for Children, Selected from the History of
England. Woodcuts. 16mo. 2s. 6rf.
Boswell'8 Life of Johnson. Including the Tour to
the Hebrides. Ifew Edition. Portraits. 4 vols. 8vo. [In Preparation.
Early Period of the French Revolution. 8vo. 15«.
                  Historical Essay on the Gcillotine. Fcap. 8vo.
CUMMING'S (R. Gordon) Five Years of a Hunter's Life in                          Is.
                                                                                the
             Far Interior of South Africa. Woodcuts. Post svo. 6s.
                        PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.

CROWE'S and             CAVALCASELLE'S                     Lives     oLfar^the ePaEpaerr,ly8voF, leImjs.ish
                                                           6 1.; or
             Painters.  Woodcuts. Post8vo, 10s.

         History of Painting in North Italy, from 14th to
   16th Cemury. Derived from Resear-has into the Work» of Art in
   that Coun'ry. With Illustrations. 2 Vols. 8vo. 42s.

CUNlfNGHA.UE'S (Sib ARtnna) Travels in the Eastern Caucasus,

             on the Caspia-i, and Black Seas, in Uaghfstan and the Frontiers of
             Persia and Turkey. With .Map and Illustrations. 8vo. Iss.

CURTIUS' (Professor) Student's Greek Grammar, for the Upper

             Forms. Edited by Da. Wm. Smith. Post 8vo. 6s.

                     Elucidations of the above Grammar. Translated by
           Evelyn Abbot. Post uvo. 7s. erf.

-- Smaller Greek Grammar for the Middle and Lower

   Forms. Abridged from the larger work. ISmO. 3s. 61L

                    Accidence of the (J reek Language. Extracted from
   the above work. 12mo. 2s. 6J.
                                                                                     A.
          Principles of Greek Etymology.                      Translated         by      S.
   Wilbins. M.A., and i:. 11. Emoland, H.A.
I                                                          Vol. I. 8vo.        15s.

CURZON'S (Hon. Robert) Armenia and Erzeroom. A Year on
             the Frontiers of Russia, Turkey, and Persia. Woodcuts. Post 8vo.

   7s. 6d.

                    Visits to the Monasteries of the Levant. Illustrations.

   Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

CUST'S (General) Warriors of the 17ih Century-- TheThirty Years'
   IWar. 2 Vols. 18s. Civii Wars of France and'England. ·i Vols. 16s.
   Commanders of Fleets and Armies.                        Vols. ISs.
   Annals of the Wars -- 18th & 19tU Century, 1700-- 1815.
   With Maps. 9 Vols. Post Svo. its. each.

DAVIS'S (Nathan) Ruined Cities of Numidia and Carthaginia.

             Illustrations. 8ro. 16s.

DAVY'S (Sir Humphry) Consolations in Travel; or, Last Days
   of a Philosopher. Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo. 3s 6o\
                    Salmonia; or, Days of Ely Fishing. Woodcuts.
   Fcap. Svo. 8s. 6,<.
                                          Journal   of a
DARWIN'S            t(hCe hWaobrllde,s)  down 8vo.         Naturalist  during  a Vojage
                                                      9s.
             round
                    Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection ;
   or, the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life.
   Crown ftvo. 7s. 6rf.
                    Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication.
   With Illustrations. 2 Vols. Crnwn 8vo. 18s.
                    Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex.
   With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 9s.
                    Expressions of the Emotions in Man and Animals.
   Willi Illustrations. OrownSvo. 12s.

                    Fertilization of Orchids through Insect Agency, and
   as to the good of Intercrossing. Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 9s.
                    Movements aud Habits of Climbing Plants. Wood-
   cuts. Crown 8v

           Insectivorous Plants. Woodcuts. Crown Svo. Us.
           Fact and Argument for Darwin. By Fbitz Muller.

   Translated by W. S. Dallas. Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 6s.
10 LIST OF WORKS

DELEPIERRE'S (Octave) History of Flemish Literature. 8vo. 9s.
                   Historic Difficulties & Contested Events. Post 8vo. 6s.

DENISON'S              (WE.ritiBn.g)s.LifWe itohf   Bishop    Lonsdale.     With Selections
                                                              Crown bvo.   10s. 6J.
             from his                              Portrait.

DERBY'S (Earl op) Iliad of Homer rendered into English

           Blank Verse. 2 Vols. Post 8vo. 10s.

DE ROS'3 (Lord) Young Officer's Companion; or, Essays on

            Military Duties ami Qualities: with Exuu»pl»a and Illustrations from
             History. Post Bvo. 9s.

DEUTSCH'S (Emanuel) Talmud, Islam, The Targums and other

             Literary Remains. 8vo. 12s.

DILKE'S (Sir C. W.) Papers of a Critie. Selected from the

            Writing* of the late Cu/s. Wbntwobth Dilbb. With a biographi
             cal Sketch. 2 Vols. bvo. 24s.

DOG-BREAKING ; the Mont Expeditious, Certain, and Easy

            Method, whether great excellence or only mediocrity be required. With
            a Few Hints lor those who L^ve the Dog and the Guu. By Llstrr.-
            Gbn. Hutchinson. With 40 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 9a.

DOMESTIC MODERN COOKERY. Founded on Principles of

             Economy and Practical Knowledge, and adapted for Private Families.
             Woodcuts. Fcap. bvo. 5s.

DOUGLAS'S (Sir Howard) Life and Adventures. Portrait 8vo. 15s.

                    Theory and Practice of Gunnery. Plates. 8vo. 21s.

            Construction of Bridges and the Passage of Rivers,
in Military Operations. Platen, bvo. 21a.

        (Wm.) Horse-Shoeing; As it Is, and As it Should be.

Illustrations. Post bvo. 7s. 6d.

DRAKE'S             (Sir  JoFhranncBiasr)boLwi.fe,PoVsotybavgo.es,2aa. nd  Exploits, by  Sea   and

             Land.    By

DRINKWATER'S (John) History of the Siege of Gibraltar,

            1779-1783. With a Description and Account of that Garrison from the
              Earliest Periods. Post bvo. 2a.

DUCANGE'S Medieval Latin- Enolisii Dictionahy. Translated

            hy Rev. E. A. Dayman, M.A. Small 4tu. [lit prtparatim,

DU CHAILLU'S (Paul B.) Equatorial Africa, with
             Accounts of the Gorilla, the Nest-builUing Ape, Chimpanzee, Croco
             dile, &e. Illustratiens. Bvo. 21i.

                 Journey to Ashango Land ; and Further Pene

tration into Equatorial Africa. Illustrations. 8vo. 21s.

DUFFERIN'S (Lord) Letters from High Latitudes; a Yacht
          Voyage to Iceland, Jan Mayeu, and Spitsbergen. Woodcuts. Post

               8vo. Ts. 6d.

DUNCAN'S (Major) History of the Royal Artillery. Com

           piled from the Original Records. With Portraits. 2 Vols. 8vo. 3us.

DYER'S (Tbos. H.) History of Modern Europe, from the talcing

           of Constantinople by the Turks to the close of the Wax in the
           Crimea. With Index. 4 Vols. 8vo. 42s.

EASTLAKE'S (Sir               Charles) Contributions to the Literature                          of
                              With   LaMdeymoEiar sotflatbhbe .  Author, and Selections  from
           the Fine Arts.       liy                                  2 Vols. 8vo. 24».         his
             Correspondence,
                        PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                   11

EDWARDS' (W. H.) Voyage up the^River Amazons, including a
            Visit to Para.  PostHvo. 2s.
                                                     the  Vatican        Council,  with
EIGHT MONTHS                AT ROMK, during
        a Daily Account ot' the Prjceediuys. By Pompon 10 Lkto. Trans
        lated from the Original. 8vo.                                    [Nearly ready.
ELDON'S (Lord) Public and Private Life, with Selections rrom
        his Correspondence and Diaries. By IIobacb Twiss. Portrait. 2
        Vols. Post8vo. 21».
ELGIN'S (Lord) Letters and Journals. Edited by Theodorb
        Waluond. With Preface by Dean 8 tan ley. bvo. 14s.
ELLESM&Kti'S (Lord) Two Sieges of Vienna by the Turks,
        Translated from the German. Post Bvo. 2».

ELLIS'S (\V.) Madagascar, including a Journey to the Capital,

             witu notices of Natural History and the People. Woodcuts. 8vo. 16*.

                       Madagascar Revisited. Setting forth the Perse

        cutions and Heroic bufferings of the Native Christians. Illustrations.

        bvo. 16s.

                     Memoir. By His Son. With his Character and
        Work. By Rbv. Henby Allon, D.D. Portrait, bvo. 10s. 6d.

            (Robinson; 1-oeuis and Fragments of Catullus. 16mo. 5s.

ELPHINSTONE'S               Ma(hHomone.danMoPeurniotdsst.uarEtd)itedHibsytorPyaorsosfaobIndCiao--w etlhl.e

             Hindoo and
        Map. 8vo. 18t.
                                                      for Turning;       Comprising
        Elliptical         (H. W.) Patterns          the Lath* without
                                                                         the use of any
                        and oilier Figures cut on
        Ormuneutal Chuck.. With 7U Illustrations. Small 4to. Ids.

ENGLAND. See Callcott, Crober, Hume, Marbham, Smith,
             and Stanuops.
                                                   With an Introduction. By
ESSAYS ON CATHEDRALS.
        Dkan How son. 8vo. 12s.

                                          contents.

Recollections of a Dean.-- Bishop of               Catltedral Churches of the Old Fouo-
Carlisle.                                             datiou. -- Edward A. Freeman.
Cathedral Canons and their Work.--
Canon Norrla                                       Welsh Cathedrals. -- Canon Pemwne.
Cathedrals in Ireland, Past and Fu                 Education ot Choristers. -- Sir F. Gore
ture. -- Dean of Cashe).
                    in  their Missionary  Aspect.     Ouseley.
Ca--theAd. rJa.ls       Beresford Hope.            Cathedral Schools. -- Canon Durham.
                   H.                              Cathedral Reform.-- Chancellor Mas-

Cathedral Foundations in Relation to                  singberd.
   Religious Thought-- Canon West-                 Relation of the Chapter to the Bis bop.

cot t.                                                Chancellor Benson.
                                                   Architecture «f the Cathedral

                                                      Churches. -- Canon Venables.

ELZE'3 (Karl) Life of Lord Byron. With a Critical Essay on
        tils Place in Literature. Translated from the German. With Portrait.
        8vo. 16a.
FARRARS (A. S.) Critical History of Free Thought in
        reference to the Christian Religion, bvo. 16*.
lFERGUSSON'S (JamesJ History                       of Architecture       in all Countries
            from the Earliest imes. With           1,60J Illustrations.
                                                                           4 Vols. Medium

        8vo. 31a. tid. each.
                   Vol. L & II. Ancient and Mediaeval.

                   Vol. III. Indian and Eastern. Vol. IV. Modern.

                      Rude Stone Monuments in all Countries; their Age
        and Uses. With 230 Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 24s.

                      Holy Sepulchre and the Temple at Jerusalem.

        Woodcuts, 8vo. 7a. 6d.
12 LIST OF WORKS

FLEMING'S (Professor) Student's Manual of Moral Philosophy.

             With Quotations and References. Post 8vo. 7s. W.

FLOWER GARDEN. By Rev. Thos. James. Fcap. 8yo. 1«.
FORD'S (Richard) Gatherings from Spain. Post 8vo. 3«. 6d.
FORSYTH'S (William) Life and Times of Cicero. With Selections

             from his Correspondence and Orations. Illustrations. Svo. 10s. 6a.

                       Hortensius; an Historical Essay on the Office

             and Duties of an Advocate. Illustrations. Svo. Vts.

                   - Hittoryof Ancient Manuscripts. PostSvo. 2s. 6tf.
                -- Novels and Novelists of the 18th Century, in
          lllustrutioa ot the Manners and llwuls of ihc Age. Post Svo. 10s. 6d.

FORTUNE'S (Robirt) Narrative of Two Visits to the Tea Countries

             of China, 1M3-52. Woodcms. V Vols. Post8vo. 18s.

FORSTFR'S (John) Life of Jonathan Swift. To'. I. 1G67-1711.

            With Poi trait. 8vo. lfis.

FOSS'    (Edward) Biographia Juridica,               or Biographical Dictionary
       of the Juilfes ot England, lrom the
                                                     Conquest to the Present Time,

       1066-187U. Medium Svo. 21s.

                        Tabulae Curiales; or, Tables of the Superior Courts
       of Westminster Hall. Showing the Jndges who sat in them from 1066
       to 1864. bvo. lU.*.M.

FRANCE. *t* See Marbham-- Smith-- Student's.

FRENCH               (The) in Algiers; The           Soldier of the Foreign Legion--
                                                         Translated by Lady Dcp» Gordo*.
                and  the Prisoners of Abd-el-Kadir.

       Post 8vo. 2s.

FRERE'S (Sir Bartle) Indian Missions. Small 8vo. 2s. Gd.

                Eastern Africa as a field for Missionary Labour. With

             Map. Crown Svo. bs.

               Bengal Famine. How it will be Met and How to Trevent
            Future Famines in India. With Maps. Crown Svo. 5s.

GALTON'S (Frahois) Art of Travel ; or, Hints on the Shifts and

            Contrivances available in Wild Countries. Woodcuts. Post Svo.
             1s.6d.

GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY'S JOURNAL. (Published Yearly.)

GEORGE'S (Ernest) Mosel : a Series of Twenty Etchings, with

              Descriptive Letterpress. Imperial 4to. 42a.

              Loire and South of France; a Series of Twenty

       Etchings, with Descriptive T»xt. Folio. 42s.

GERMANY (Hisjorv of). See Maekuah.

GIBBON'S (Edward)              History      of the Decline    and Fall of the
                                          Milman and Guizot.
              Roman Empire.  Edited by                         Edited, with Notes,
       by Dr. Wa. Smith. Maps. 8 Vols. 8vo. 60s.

       above         (The Student's       Gibbon) ; Being an Epitome of           the
                     work, incorporating                                           By
                                          the Researches of Recent Commentators,
       Dr. Wm. Smith. Woodcuta. Post 8vo. 7s. Gd.
                      PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                             13

GIFFARD'S (Edward) Deeds of Naval Daring ; or, Anecdotes of

            the British Navy. Fcap. 8vo. Ss. 6d.

GLADSTONE'S (W. E.) Financial Statements of 1853, I860, 63-65.

              8vo. 12s.

                            Rome and the Newest Fashions in Religion.
            Three Tracts. Collected Edition. With a new Preface. 8vo. Is. 6d.
GLEIG'S (G. R.) Campaigns of the British Army at Washington

              and New Orleans. Post 8vo. 2».

Story of the Battle of Waterloo. Post 8vo. 3». 6d.

Narrative of Sale's Brigade in Afghanistan. Post8vo.2s.

Life of Lord Clive. Post 8vo. 3s. 6cL

                           Sir Thomas Munro. Post 8vo. 3s. 6d.
GOLDSMITH'S (Oliver) Works. Edited with Notes by Peter

             Cr/NKIKOhAm. Vignettes. 4 Vols. 8vo. 30s.

GORDON'S (Sir Alex.) Sketches of German Life, and Scenes
from the War of Liberation. Post 8vo. 3s. 6d.
(Lady Ddtf) Amber- Witch : A Trial for Witch-
craft. Post svo. 2s.
                    French in Algiers. 1. The Soldier of the Foreign
             Legion.  2. The Prisoners    of  AHbda-ell-lK;adirH. uttPoosnt ;8voK. isita.
                                          ;                                                Edward  ;
GRAMMARS.               See Curtius
Matthi.e; Maetzxer; Smith.
GREECE. See Ghote --Smith -- Student.

GREY'S (Earl) Correspondence with King William IVth and

            Sir Herbert Taylor, from 183U to 1832. 2 Vols. 8vo. s0s.

Suggestions PaforlriamtheenItmarpyrovemGeonvter,n'meonutr           and Reform ; with
Second Edition. Svo.
                                                                    Representative System.

GUIZOT'S (M.) Meditations                 on Christianity, and      on the Religions
                                          Vols. Postal, pi
             Questions of the Day. 8
GROTE'S (George) History of Greece. From the Earliest Times
to the close of tho generation contemporary with the death of Alexander
the Great. Library Edition. Portrait. Maps, and Plans. 10 Vols. 8vo.
120s. Cabinet Edition. Portrait and Plans. 12 Vols. Post 8?o. 6s. each.

    Plato, and other Companions of Socrates. 3 Vols. 8vo. 45s.

Aristotle. 2 Vols. 8vo. 32.*.

Minor Works. With Critical Remarks on his
Intellectual          HCroh.aralicst.er,  Writings                  By Alex.Bahi, LL.D.
Portrait.                                           and  Speeches.

Fragments on Ethical Subjects. Being a Selection from
1- s Posthumous Papers. With an introduction.                       By Alexandra.
Bain, M.A. 8vo.

     Personal Life. Compiled from Family                            Documents,
                                                                    from Various
Private Memoranda, and Original Letters to and
Friends. By Mrs. Orote. Portiait. 8vo. 12s.                         8vo. 8s. 6d.

      (Mrs.) Memoir of Ary Schefler. Portrait.

HALL'S (T. D.) School Manual of English Grammar.                                           With

             Copious Exercises. 12mo. 3s. fitf.

              Primary English Grammar for Elementary Schoola.

             16mo. Is.

- Child's First Latin Book, including a Systematic Treat
           ment of the Ne» Pronunciation, and a full Praxis of Nouos, Adjec

             tives, and Pronouns. 16iuo. 1s. 6-tf.
14 LIST OF WORKS

HALLAM'S (Henrv) Constitutional History of England, from the
             Accession of Henry the Seventh to the Death of George the Second.
            Library Edition. 3 Vols. 8vo. 30s. Cabinet Edition, 8 Vols. Post 8vo. 12i .

Student's Edition of the above work. Edited by
Wm. Smi-rn, D.C.L. Post 8vo. 7s. 6i.
                    of Europe during the              Middle                              Library
         History                                               Ages.                       lit.
                    8vo. 80s. Cabinet Editinn,        8 Vols.  Post 8vo.
Edition. 3 Vols.

Student's Edition of the above work. Edited by
Wh. Smith, D.C.L. Post 8vo. 7s. 6A
Literary History of Europe, during the 15th, 16th and
17th Centurioa." Library Edition. 3 Vols. 8vo. S6*. Cabinet Edition.
4 Vols. Post 8vo. 16s.
                      Literary                        in Verse and Prose.
        (Arthur)        8s. M.  Remains;

Portrait. Fcap. 8vo.

HAMILTON'S (Gen. SirF. W.) History of the Grenadier Guards.

           From Orierin.il Documents in the Rolls' Records, War Office, Regimental
           Records, &e. With Illustrations. 3 Vols. 8vo. 83s.

HART'S ARMY LIST. (Published Quarterly and Annually.)

HAY'S (Sir J. H. Drumhobd) 'Western Barbary, its Wild Tribes
            and Savage Animals. Post 8vo. is.

HEAD'S (Sir Francis) Royal Engineer. Illustrations. 8vo. 12s.
· Life of Sir John Burgoyne. Post 8vo. Is.

Rapid Journeys across the Pampas. Post 8vo. 2a.
Bubbles from the Brunnen of Nassau. Illustrations.

Post 8vo. 7s. 6<i.
Emigrant. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d

Stokers and Pokers ; or, the London and North Western
Rarlway. Post 8vo. is.
                        and            Will;          or, Future Auxiliary
  (Sir Edmund) Shall

Verbs. Fcap. Svo. A»
HEBER'S (Bishop) Journals in India. 2 Vols. Post 8vo. 7«.

^-- Poetical Works. Portrait. Fcap. 8vo. 3». 6d

       -- Hymns adapted to the Church Service. 16mo. Is. 6d.

HERODOTUS. A New English Version. Edited, with Notes
and Essays,  haissstiosrtiecdal,byetShinbogUrabpnhricyal,RaawnldinsgoenograanpdhicSaibl,  Jb.y6.CWaniols
Rawlinbon,
binson. Maps and Woodcuts. 4 Vols. 8vo. 46s.

HEliSCHEL'S (Caroline) Memoir and Correspondence.                                         By
          .Mi '.*. John IlKus<ml»!.. "With Portraits. Crown Svo.
HATHERLEYS (Lord) Continuity of Scripture, as Declared
             by the Testimony of our Lord and of the Evangelists and Apostles.
8vo. 8>. roputur Edition. Post 8vo. 2s. 6d.

HOLLWAY'S (J. G.) Month in Norway. Fcap. 8vo. 2».
HONEY BEE. By Rsv. Thomas James. Fcap. 8vo. 1«.

-- --HOOK'S (Dean) Church Dictionary.  8vo. 16s.
-- (Theodore) Life. By J. G. Loobhart. Fcap. 8vo. 1s.
HOPE'S (T. C.) Architecture op Ahmedabad, with Historical
Sketch and Architectural Notes. With Maps, Photographs, and
Woodcuts. 4to. 5t 5s.
- (A. J. Beresford) Worship in the Church of England.
8vo. lis., or, Popular Selection* from. 8vo. 2s. 6d.
          PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                      15

             FOREIGN HANDBOOKS.
HAND-BOOK-- TRAVEL-TALK. English, French, German, and
Italian.  18mo. 8*. 6W.
                              -- Belgium,
           HOLLAND,                              Rhenish   Pnussia,     and the

Rhine     from Holland  to Mayence. Map          and Plana. Post 8vo.    6s.

              NORTH      GERMANY,--              From the Baltic        to the
iAtgBrhauolearmsyctrkG,iaFaia,nrFadnonSrtePkttynsfSMoAerti,rOoatIDu,NtUnahtStenoTTaauilIHnBbzHN*beaa.u,sGrlrtefgsrG..To,, amEntGMhTnRehUeauUlprMsnAmr,iuinaAsatsnOtonedrNdir,atwehYln'neaFla,fllfd--nBaea,nsllamd.dc, kWiSBsaPaahuSoxnver,osdatatnaer.itanm8hnSvdMebwoau.ADipRtrlz.phugetsii,tnrs,Plc.eaohTnsdytC8S.BrovocauolhKv,n.oCatHrouriuHeileasnisn..,.,,.
IllustrationLs.IVES SVolsO. FPoEstA8RvoL. Y24F*. LEMISH PAINTERS. By
CaowE     and Cavalcaselle. Illustrations.       Post 8vo. 10s. ft*.
                                                 Savoy, and Piedmont.
             SWITZERLAND, Alps of
Maps. Post 8vo. 9a.
          FRANCE, Part I. Normandy, Brittany, the French
-- II.A lps, the

7a. id.
             Loire,  the Seine, the  Garonne, and the     Pyrenees.     Post 8vo.

Cevennes,                Part        Central France, Auvcrs>-ne, the
Marseilles,
             Burgundy,   the Rhone and Saone,     Provence. Niroes,     Aries,
             the French  Alps, Alsace, Lorraine,                        Maps.
PostSvo. 7s. Sd.                                  Champagne, &c

        MEDITERRANEAN                 ISLANDS-Malta, Corsica,

Sardinia, and Sicily. Maps. Post     8vo. [In Ike Priss.
                                     Constanline, Oran, the Atlaa
         ALGERIA. Algiers,
Range. Map. Post 8vo. 9s.
&*LMe.c"uo.rnAcM,lieauT.,bhbeVSMPaaPAayAlep'sAsRntsuc.IIrNiSaPia,l,,2sa,CnVaMaGontaloaadsdvll.oicrinitPiaisdaPa, ,o,rsEiETsAtns,nrtv8aremveigroroooCo.unnaan,sdtsUe.utNdrislaa.ev,soaM,nArrnaeTcd,phaan.eluvTsahBisa1ea.,6smBqR3ausool.ene.d6adarPi.,cr3oGsvI.rsianl6ancrnafed.dssa,,'
          PORTUGAL, Lisbon, Porto, Cintra, Mafra, &c.
Map. Post 8vo. 9a.
           NORTH ITALY, Turin, Milan, Cremona, the
Italian   LPaaBCkromeElsoa,Ng, nTBaM,eRordgRAeaanmLvaeo.n,IanTnaBAd,reLRsRocYiimma,,ainaFiVn,loae.rroePnlnaaMcc,eean,pMz. aaLn,utPcuoGcase,atn,o8VvaTio,cu.esnthcze1aa0,nsRvPi,vaiedTruhaa.e,
Ferrara,
Venice,

Marches,Umbria, and the late Patrimony of St. Peter's. Man. Post 8vo.
10s.
          RSOOUMTEHanIdTAitLsYE, nvTiwroons.SiciliMesa,p.
--                                                             Post  8vo. 10».
                                                           Naples,
--Herculaneum, and Vesuvius. Map.                 Post 8vo. IO*       Pompeii,

         KNAPSACK GUIDE                          TO ITALY.       16mo.
          PAINTING. The Italian Schools, Illustrations.
2 Vols. Post 8vo. 30*.
          LIVES OF ITALIAN PAINTERS, from Cmabnu
to  Bassaxo. By Mrs.     Jameson. Portraits. Post 8vo. 12s.

            NORWAY,       Christiania, Bergen, Trondhjcm.               The

Fjelda andSWFjoErdDs.ENM,ap.StoPcoksht o8lmvo,.  9§.       Gothenburg,  the
Shores    of the Baltic, &c.
                                                 Upsala,
            DENMARK,           Post 8vo. 6s.
                              Sleswig.Holstein,   Copenhagen, Jutland,
Iceland. Map. PostSvo. 6t.
16 LIST OF WORKS

HAND-BOOK -RUSSIA, St. Petersburg, Moscow, Poland, and
Finland.           Maps. Post 8vo. 15s.
                                                                      Islands,  Continental  Greece,
                GREECE, the Ionian
Athens, the. Peloponnesus, the Islands of the .Egeau Sea, Albania,
Thessaly, and Macedonia. Map*. Post8vo. 15s.

         TURKEY IN" ASIA-- Constantinople, the Bos-
phnros, Dardanelles,               Brousa, Plain of Troy, Crete. Cyprus, Smyrna,
Kphesus, the Seven                 Churches, Coasts ot the Black Sea, Armenia,
Mesopotamia, &e. Maps. Post Svo. 15»1
                EGYPT, including Descriptions of the Course of
the Nile through Egypt and Nubia, Alexandria, Cairo, and Thebes, the
Suez Canal, the Pyramids, the Peninsula of Sinai, the Oases, the
            &c. Map.              LPAosNt D8vo--. 1S5iyria,
Fyoom,                                                                Palestine,     Peninsula   of
             HOLY
Sinai. Edom, Syrian Deserts, Petra, Damascus, and Palmyra. Maps.

Pust   8v*o,."  ITNraDvIeAllin--g  Map of Palestine.                     In a case.  12s.
                                    Bombay and                        Madras.
                                                                                     Map.    2 Vols.

Post 8vo. 12s. esch.

                ENGLISH HANDBOOKS.

HAND-BOOK-- MODERN LONDON. Map. 16mo. Ss.Sd.
                   EASTERN COUNTIES, Chelmsford, Harwich, Col
chester, Maldon, Cambridge, Ely, Newmarket, Bury St. Edmunds,
Ipswich, Woodbridge, Felixstowe, Lowestoft, Norwich, Yarmouth,
Cromer, &e. Map and Plans. Post 8vo. ]2s.

          CATHEDRALS of Oxford, Peterborough, Norwich,
 Ely,        Lincoln.               With  90 Illustrations.. Crown 8vo. 18s.
       and
.           KENT                  AND     SUSSEX, Canterbury, Dover,
                                                                                             Rams-

gWatoer,thSinhgee. rneHsass, tinRgosc,heLsetwere.sC, hAartuhnadmel,,  Woolwich,  Brighton, Chichester,
                                                                       &e. MHp.    Post 8vo. 10s.
            SURREY AND HANTS, Kingston, Croydon, Rei-
        Guildford, Dorking,               Bos  Whililg, htW. inMchaepsst.er,
#ate,    Portsmouth, ami Islb              op                                      Southampton,  Ke*~
Forest                                                                           PostSvo. 10s.
            BERKS, BUCKS, AND OXON, Windsor, Eton,
Reading, Aylesbury, Uxbridge, Wycombe, Henley, the City and Uni
versity of Oxford, Bieuh»im, and the Descent of the Thames. Map.

_!!U0\viLTS, DORSET, AND SOMERSET, Salisbury,
Chippenham, Weymouth, Sherborne, Wells, Bath, Bristol, Tannton,

&e. MapD. EVPoOstN8vo.AN10D.*. CORNWALL, Exeter, Ilfracombe,
qLiunatyo.n.LanSnidcmesotuotnh,,   Dawlish, Teignmouth, Plymouth, Devonport,                     Tor
                                  Truro, Penzance, Falmouth, the Lizard, Land's                  End,

&c Maps. Post fiv»t. 12s.
            CATHEDRALS of "Winchester, Salisbury, Exeter,
Wells, Chichester, Rochester, Canterbury. With 110 Illustrations.
2 Vols. CGrLowOnU8CvoE.ST24Es.R, HEREFORD, and WORCESTER,
Cirencester, Cheltenham, Strond, Tewkesbury, Leominster, Ross, Mal
vern, Kidderminster, Dndley, Brom strove, Evesham. Map. Post8vo. 9s.
            CATHEDRALS of Bristol, Gloucester, Hereford,
Worcester, and Lichfield. With 50 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 16».

         NORTH WALES, Bangor, Carnarvon, Beaumaris,
Snowdon, Llanberis, Dolgelly, Cadtr Idrls, Conway, &e. Map. Post
       ''

           SOUTH WALES, Monmouth, Llandaff, Merthyr,
Vale of Neath, Pembroke, Carmarthen, Tenby, Swansea, and The Wye,
&e. Map. Post 8vo. 7i.
             PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                            17

HAND-BOOK-- CATHEDRALS OP BANGOR, ST. ASAPH,
      Llandall", and St. David's. With Illustrations. Post 8vo. los.

                 DERBY, NOTTS, LEICESTER, STAFFORD,
      Matlock, Bakewell, Chatsworth, The Peak, Buxton, Hardwick, Dove
      Dale, Ashborne, Southwell, Mansfield, Retford, Burton, Belvoir, Helton
      Mowbray, Wolverhampton, Lichfield, Walsall, Tamworth. Map.
      Poet 8vo. 9»

              SHROPSHIRE, CHESHIRE and LANCASHIRE

      -- Shrewsbury, Lndlow, Bridgnorth, Oswestry, Chester, Crewe.AIderley,
      Stockport, Birkenhead, Warrington, Bury, Manchester, Liverpool,
      Burnley, Clitheroe, Bolton, Blackburn, Wlgan, Preston, Rochdale,
      Lancaster, Southport, Blackpool, Ac. Map. Post 8vo. lit,.

                YORKSHIRE, Doncaster, Hall, Selhy, Beverley,
      Scarborough, Whithy, Harrogate, Ripon, Leeds, Wakefield, Bradford,
      Halifax, Hndderafleld, Sheffield. Map and Plans. Post 8vo. 12s.

               CATHEDRALS of York, Ripon, Durham, Carlisle,
      Chester, and Manchester. With 60 Illustrations. 2 Vols. Crown 8vo.
      Iis.

                 DURHAM AND NORTHUMBERLAND, New
      castle, Darlington, Gateshead, Bishop Auckland, Stockton, Hartlepool,
      Sunderland, Shields, BerwIck-on-T weed, Morpeth, Tynemouth, Cold
      stream, Alnwick, Ac. Map. Post 8vo. 9s.

                WESTMORLAND and CUMBERLAND-- Lan-
      caster, Fnmess Abbey, Ambleside, Kendal, Windermere, Coniston,
      Keswick, Grasmere, ULswater, Carlisle, Cockermouth, Penrith, Appleby.
        Map. Post 8vo. 6s.

      ·»· Mubbay'h Map op the Labr Distbict, on canvas. St.6d.
             SCOTLAND, Edinburgh, Melrose, Kelso, Glasgow,
      Dumfries, Ayr, Stirling, Arran, The Clyde, Oban, Inverary, Loch
      Lomond, Loch Katrine and Trossachs, Caledonian Canal, Inverness,
      Perth, Dundee, Aberdeen, Braemar, Skye, Caithness, Ross, Suther
      land, die. Mans and Plans. Post8vo. 9s.

               IRELAND, Dublin, Belfast, Donegal, Galway,
      Wexford, Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Killarney, Munster, dte. Maps.
             Post 8vo. 12s.

HORACE ; a New Edition of the Text. Edited by Dean Milhan.
      With 100 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. Is. 6d.
             Life of. By Dban Milmah. Illustrations. 8vo. 9*
HOUGHTON'S (Lord) Monographs, Vol. Personal and Social

           With Portraits. Crown 8vo. lus. ed.

                     Poetical Worbs. Collected Edition. With Por
      trait  8

                                                           I.,
             Vols Fcap.8vo. 12s.
HUME'S (The Student's) History of England, from the Inva
      sion of Julins Ciroar to the Revolution of 1688. Corrected and con-
             tinned to 1868. Woodcuts. Post 8vo. Is. 64.

HUTCHINSON (Gen.), on the most expeditions, certain, and

            easy Method of Dog-Breaking. With 40 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.

      9s.

BUTTON'S (H.E.) PrincipiaGneca; an Introduction to theStndy

             of Greek. Comprehending Grammar, DelectTM, and Exercise-book,
      with Vocabularies. Sixth Edition. 12mo. 8s. 6d.
IRBY                                                            Syria,           and
      AND MANGLES' Travels in Egypt, Nubia,
           the Holy Land. Post 8vo. Ss.

JACOBSON'S (Bishop) Fragmentary Illustrations of the History
      of the Book of Common Prayer; from Manuscript Sources (Bishop
JAMESS'an(Rdi»bvb.onThaondkaBsis)hoFpabWlehsen)o. f
                                                     8vo. 5s.A New Translation,    with
                                                               by Tbkhiil and    Wotr,
                                                     jEsop.
      Historical Preface. With 100 Woodcuts
      Post8vo. is. 6d.
18 LIST OF WORKS

HOME AND COLONIAL LIBRARY. A Series of Works
       AhaPfoeduraabdptlstihseehdaiersdffaoorclalkotnawlo2lsws.c;lie--radcnlgedesd3sa.inn3dtde.rceelaasscta,he, aanadnodfabRailerirtaaydnegoresfd,thehuanAvdiuentrghotrwsbo.eendiPsostesintlecScttvleyod*.

                                               CLASS

    HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, AND HISTORIC TALES.

1.  SIEGE     OF GIBRALTAR.          By          11. THE SIEGES OF VIENNA.
     Joan    Dbixbwater. 2s.                            By LOEd El.LKbMEBE. it.

I.  THLaEdy  AMBER-WITCH.            By          13.  THE WAYSIDE             CROSS.    By
              Durr Gobdub. is.                          Capt. Milmaw.
                                                                            2s.

8, CROMWELL AND BUNYAN.                          13. SKETCHESorGERMANLIFB.
      By ROhSRt SOCThEY. 2s.                            By Sib A. Gobdom. 6s. id.
                                                      THE BATTLE o» WATERLOO.
4.  LIFE or Sib FRANCIS DRAKE.                   14.    By Riv. G. R. Gleio. is.6d.
     By Johs Barbow. 2s.
                                                 15. AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF STEF.
5. CTAOMNP.AIBGyNRSbvA.GT.R.WGlABSIOH. INGis.           FENS. Si.
                                                 16. THE BRITISH POETS. By
6.  THE   LaFoR;ENDCurHr   IN ALGIERS.
                                                         Thomas Campbell. Ss. Gd.
      By                  Gordon, is.
                                                 I7. HISTORICAL ESSAYS.                 By
1. THE FALL OF THE JESUITS.                             Lobd M auom. 8s. 3d.
    Is.
8. LIVONIAN TALES, it.                           18. LIFE OF LORD CLIVE. By
                                                      Kbv. G. K. Gleio. 3s. ed.
                                                               - WESTERN RAIL
8. LIFE OF CONDE. By LObd Mi-                    19.  NORTH
        HO». 3s. 3d.                                    WAY.   By Sib F. B. Head. St.

10. SALE'S BRIGADE. By IUv.                      SO. LIFE OF MUNRO. By RsT. O.
      0. R. Gum. is.
                                                        R. Gleio. Ss. ed.

                                             CLASS B.

             VOYAGES, TRAVELS, AND ADVENTURES.

1. BIBLE IN SPAIN. By Gbobqb                     15.  LEa TLTaEdyR.S  FROM  MADRAS.     By

      Bobbow. 3s. 6d.                                                 Ss.

I. GYPSIES or SPAIN. ByGEObOE                    16. HIGHLAND SPORTS.                   By
                                                      Chableb St. John. 3s. 6d.
       Bobbovv. 3s. 3d.
                                                 17. PAMPAS JOURNEYS. By Sib
8*4. JOURNALS IN INDIA. By                              F. B. Head. 2s.
      Bishop Hbbbb. 2 Vols. Is.

5.  TRAVELS l»     MthaengHlOesL.Y   LAND.       18. GATHERINGS FROM SPAIN.
                                                        By RlChASD Fobd. Ss. 64
      By Ibby and                    2s.

6.  MBOyROJ.CDCbOumAhNoDnd  THHaEy.  MOORS.      18. THE RIVER AMAZON.                  By
                                                        W. H. Edwabds. St.
                                       2s.

T. LETTERS FROM the BALTIC.                      20. MANNERS A CUSTOMS OF
                                                       INDIA. ByREY.C.AoLAHD. Ss.
       By a Lady. 2s.

8. NEW SOUTH WALES. By Mas.                      21. ADVENTURES IN MEXICO.
      Meredith. 2s.                                     By G. F. RuxtOit. 8s. 3d.
8. THE WEST INDIES. By M. G.
      Lewis. 2s.                                 SS. PORTUGAL AND GALLICIA.
                                                        By Lobd Carnakvoh. 3s. 3d.
J10. SKETCHES OF PERSIA. By
                                                 28.  BUSH LIFE IN AUSTRALIA.
       Sib ohm Malcolm. Ss. 64
                                                        By Rev. H. W. Hayoabtb. 2s.
II. MEMOIRS OF FATHER RIPA.
  * St.                                          24. THBaEyleLISBtY. AJoNbh.DESSs.ERT.  By

IS 13. TYPEE AND OMOO. By                        25. SIERRA LEONE. By A Lady.
      Hermann Melville. 2 Vols. Is.
                                                      3s. 3d.
14. MAISDSAI.ONBAyRRYtv.LIJF. EAbIbNottC. AN2s.

                          *.* Each work may be had separately.
       PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                                                          19

JAMESON'S (Mm.) Lives of the Early Italian Painters--
       and the Progress of Painting In Italy -- Cimabue        to Bassano. With
             50 Portraits'     Post 8vo. 12s.                  Government in
                                               of Republican
JENNINGS' (L.               J.) Eighty Years
              the United States.  Post 8vo. 10s. M.
                                  H.) Galilean Church,         from                            the Con
JERVIS'S (Kev. W.
       cordat of Bologna, 1516, to the Revolution.        With an Introduction
       Portraits. 2 Vols. 8vo. 28s.
JESSE'S (Edward) Gleanings in Natural History. Fcp. 8vo. 3*. 6d.
JEX-BLAKE'S (Rev. T. W.) Life in Faith: Sermons Preached
       at Cheltenham and Rughy. Fcap. 8vo.
JOHNS' (Rev. B. G.) Blind People ; their Works and Ways. With
       Sketches of the Lives of some famous Blind Men.         With Illustrations
       Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

JOHNSON'S (Dr. Samuel) Life. By James BoswelL Including
       the Tour to the Hebrides. Edited by Mb. Cbobbb. New Edition
       Portraits. 4 Vols. 8vo.                                                                 [/» Preparation.

       Lives of the most eminent English Poets, with
       Critical Observations      "n their Works. Ediied with                                   Notes, Corrective
       and Explanatory, by        Peteb CimtMNqhAM. 8 vols.                                    8vo. 22s. Id.
JUNIUS' Handwriting Professionally investigated. ByMr.CtuBoT,
       TEwxptselrRtt.OHW. ithWiPtrhefFaacce-luanildlesC, ollWatoeoradlcutEsv,idAeen.ce,4tbo.y  the Hon.
                                                                                                £8 3s.   Edwaud

KEN'S  (Bishop) Life. By a Lavmah. Portrait. 2 Vols, 8vo. 18*.

       Exposition of the Apostles' Creed. 1 Ohio. 1s. 6d.
KERR'S (Robert) Gentlbman's
                                         House ; or, How to Plah Eno-
           lisa Residences prom tub
             Views and Plans. 8vo. 24s.  Parsonaob to tub Palacb. With

       Small Country House. A Brief Practical Discourse on
       the Planning of a Residence from S0X,0{. to 5000J. With Supple
       mentary Estimates to 7u(Hl. Poet 8vo. 3s.
--                                                                                             Surveyors,
            Ancient Lights; a Book for Architects,
       Lawyers, and Landlords. 8vo. 5» 6d.
       (R. Malcolm) Student's Blackstone. A Systematic
       Abridgment of the entire Commentaries,
       ofthelaw. Post8vo. 7s. 6d.                 adapted      to the present state

KING EDWARD VIth'b Latin Grammar. 12mo. 8s. 6rf.
                                  First Latin Book. 12mo. 2« 6d.
KING GEORGE IIIrd's Correspondence with Lord North,
    176&-82. Edited, with Notes   and Introduction,       by W. Bohuam Donne.
    2 T"l -- 8vo. sia.
KING'S (R J.) Archasology. Travel and Art; being Sketches and
    Stndies, Historical snd Descriptive. 8vo. 12s,

KIRK'S (J. Foster) History of Charles the Bold, Duke of Bur
    gundy. Portrait. 3 Vols. 8»o 45s.
KIRKES' Handbook            of Physiology. Edited by W. Morrant

           Dakfb, K.R.C.S.  Wuli 240 Illustrations. Post 8vo. 12«. 6d.

KUGLER'S Handbook of Painting.-- The Italian Schools. Re
    J.vised and Remodelled                                                                               Ladt
                                                                                                          and
    Eastlaeb. With HO
              Handbook
                                  from the most recent Researches.                             Hy
                                  IHiiHtrationa. 2 Vols.     Crown 8vo. 80s.
                                                          German, Flemish,
                                  f Paiutiug.-- The
    Dutch School*. R. vised and          In part
    With 60 Ulustrvlo s. » Vols.          Crown   re-written.  By                              A Cbowb
                                                  8vo. 21j.
LANE'S (E. W.) Account of the Manners and Customs of Modern
    Egyptians. With Illustrations. 2 Vols. PostSvo. 12s

                                                                                               o2
20 LIST OF WORKS

LAWRENCE'S (Sir Geo.) Reminiscences of Forty-three Years'

            Service in India ; Inclnding Captivities in Cabul among the AfTghans
            and among the Sikhs, and a Narrative of tLe Mutiny in Rajputana.
             Crown 8vo. 10a. fid.

LAYARD'S (A. H.) Nineveh and its Remains. Being a Nar
rative of Researches and Discoveries amidst the Ruins of Assyria.
With an Account of the Chaldean Christians of Kurdistan ; the Yezedis.
or Devil-worshippers; and an Enquiry into the Manners and Arts ot
     Ancient Assyrians. Plates                                           and  Woodcuts. 3 Vols.
the                                                                      the  above work. With   8vo. 86s.
        A l'ori lab Edition of                                                                   Illustrations.
Post 8vo. 7*. 6d.

                   Nineveh and Babylon ; being the Narrative of Dis
coveries in the Ruins, with Travels in Armenia, Kurdistan and the
DPPloea*sst,,teessr8t.v,Ao.d8Puvoor7i.pan,guMl2aai.bf,           Expedition to   Assyria. With Map and
                                                        Second    of the above  work. With Illustrations.

                                                        Edition

LEATHES' (Stanley) Practical Hebrew Grammar. With the

            Hebrew Text of Genesis 1.-- vi., and Psalms i.-- vi. Grammatical
       J.Analysis and Vocabulary. Post 8vo. 7a. 6d.
                                                                                         in Asia  Minor.
LENNEP'S (Rev. H. Yah) Missionary Travels
With Illustrations of Biblical History and Archaeology. With Map
and Woodcuts. 2 Vols. Post 8vo. 24a.
                   Modern Customs and Manners of BiHe Lands in
Illustration of Scripture. With Coloured Maps and 300 Illustrations.
2 Vols. 8vo. 2l*.

LESLIE'S (C. R.) Handbook fgr Young Painters. With Illustra

              tions. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

                  Life and Works of Sir Joshua Reynolds. Portraits

             and illustrations. 2 Vols. 8vo. 42a.

LETTERS From the Baltic. By a Lady. Post 8vo. 2*
                            Madras. By a Lady. Post 8vo. 2«.
                           SiKRRA Leone. By a Lady. Post 8vo. 3s. 6d.

LEVI'S (Leohe) History of British Commerce ; and of the Eco
              nomic Progress of the Nation, from 1763 to 1870. 8vo. 16s.

LIDDELL'S (Dean) Student's History of Rome, from the earliest

            Times to the establishment ot the Empire. With Woodcuts. Post8vo.

7*. 6d.

LLOYD'S            (EfWrluo.cmidWatLaioOtnbWsisosLf) AthHeTiISsTitcoUilriaDyn EoOSfd;eSsiocorfi,lPytinhtdeoarJ.tohuWernitAahtlhMeoanfpiathn8evWoH. ao14rns..;
                                                        HiEsdtitoerdyhv  Loup Duffbbin.
             with
                                                                         of England.
LISPING8

              ImpulstaGuahington.                                                        Wlth24Plates.4to 21s.

LITTLE ARTHUR'S                                                                             By Lady Call-
cott. Arte Edition, continued to 1872. With Woodcuts.
la. M.                                                                                           Heap. 8vo.

LIVINGSTON K'S (Dr.) Popular Account of his Fiist Expedition
to Africa, 1840-56. Illustrations. Post 8vo. 7* 6if.
                   Popular Account of his Second Expedition to
to Africa, 1868-64, Map and Illustrations. Post8vo. 7a. M.
                   Last Journals in Central Africa, from 1865
to his Death. Continued by a Narrative of his last momrnts and suffer
ings. Hy Rev Hobacn Wau.eB. Maps and Illustrations. 2 Vols
               Svo. 28a.

LIVONIAN TALES. By the Author of "Letters from the
Baltic." Post 8vo. 2a.
LOCH'SElg(inH'.s
                    B.) Personal                          Narrative of Events            during Lord
                                                        to China. With Illustrations.
                   Second Embassy                                                           Post 8vo. 9*.
          PUBLISHED BY MB, MURRAY.                                                   21

LOCKHART'S (J. G.) Ancient Spanish Ballads. Historical and

            Romantie. Translated, with Notes. With Portrait and Illustrations.
             Crown 8vo. 5s.

                       Life of Theodore Hook. Fcap. 8vo. 1*.
LONSDALE'S (Bishop) Life. With Selections from his Writings.

            By E. B. Damson. With Portrait. Crown 8vo. 10s. 8A

LOUDON'S (Mrs.) Gardening for Ladies. With Directions

             and Calendar of Operations for Every Month. "Woodcuts. Fcan. 8vo.
             Ss 6U

LUCKKOW: A Lady's Diary of the Siege. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d.
LYELL'S (Sir Charles) Principles of Geology; or, the Modern

             Changes of the Earth and Its Inhabitants considered as illustrative of
           Geology. With Illustrations. 2 Vols. 8vo. 82s.

                 Student's Elements of Geology. With Table of British
Fossils and 600 Illustrations. Post 8vo. 0«.

Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man,
inclnding an Outline of Glacial Post- Tertiary Geology, and Remarks
on the Origin of Species. IlluRtrations. 8vo. 14s.
(K. M.) Geographical Handbook of Ferns. With Tables
to show their Dlstribut'on. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.
LYTTELTON'S (Lord) Ephemera. 2 Vols. Post 8vo. 19s.6<*.
LYTTON'S (Lord) Memoir of Julian Fane. With Portrait. Post
Svo. 5s.
M«CLINTOCK'S (Sir L.) Narrative of the Discovery of the
Fate of Sir John Franklin and his Companions                     in  the     Arctic  Seas.
With Illustrations. Post 8vo. 7/. M.
MACDOUGALL'S (Col.) Modern Warfare as Influenced by Modern

            Artillery. With Plans. Post 8vo. 12s.
MACGREGOR'S                               Roy on the Jordan, Nile, Red
                            (J.A)   Rob                                      Sea, Gen-
             nesareth, Ae.                Cruise in Palestine and Egypt and  the Waters
                                   Canoe
oi Damascus. With Map and 70 Illustrations. Crown Svo. 7». 6d
MACPHERSON'S (Major) Services in India, while Political
              Agent at Gwalior during the Mutiny. Illustrations. 8vo. 12s.

MAETZNER'S English Grammar. A Methodical, Analytical,
and Historical Treatise on the Orthography, Prosody, Inflections, and
CSyi.natibaxJ.ofGrthbecr,EnLgLl.ils).h    Tongue.     Tratmlated from the  German.   By
                                           8 Vols.  Svo. 36s.
MAHON (Lord), see Stanhopi.
MAINE'S (Sir H.
                            Sumhrr) Ancient Law:           its Connection    with    the
            Early History                                 to Modern Ideas.
                            of Society, and its Relation                     Svo.    12s.

Village Communities in the East and West. 8vo. On.

Early History of Institutions. 8vo. 12s.
MALCOLM'S (Str John) Sketches of Persia. Post 8vo. 8s. ed.
MANSEL'S (Dear) Limits of Religious Thought Examined.
Post 8vo. 8s. ed.
Letters, Lectures, and Papers, including the Phrontis-
terion, or Oxford in the XlXth Century. Edited by II. W. Ciian'dlbr,
M.A. 8vo. 12s.
          Gnostic Heresies of the First and Second Centuries.
- With a sketch of bis life and character. By Lord Carnarvon.
Edited by Canon Liohtfoot. 8vo 10i. 6d.
MANUAL OF SCIENTIFIC ENQUIRY. For the Use of
Travellers. Edited by Rsv. R. Main. Post 8vo. 8s. M. [Published*!/
order of the Lords of the AtlmiraXty.)
MARCO POLO. The Book of Per Marco Polo, the Venetian.
Concerning the Kingdoms and Marvels of the East. A new English
Version.  BIlylustCraotle. dHebnyrytheYuliglbh.t    of Oriental  Writers and Modern
Travels.                                             Maps and    Illustrations. 2 Vols.

Medinm Svo. 61s.
MARKH AM'S (Mrs.) History of England. From the First Inva
             sion by the Romans to 1867. Woodcuts. 12mo. 3s. Bd.

-- History of France. From the Conquest by the
        Gaul, to 1861. Woodcuta. Hmo. 81. <,./.
                     History of Germany. From the Invasion by Marias
           Icl867. Woodcuts. limo. 3s.M.

MARLBOROUGH'S (Sarah, Dcchess op) Letters. Now first

                           from the Original MSS. at Madresfield Court. With an
             fuDhtlrisohdeudction. 8vo. 10». 6d.

MARK YAT'S (Joseph) History of Modem and Mediaeval Pottery

           and Porcelain. With a Description of the Manufacture. Plates and
             Woodcute. Svo. 42s.

MARSH'S (G. P.) Student's Manual of the English Language.

             Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

MATTHIAS Greeb Grammar. Abridged by Blomfield,
             Jleviaed by E. S. Cboobb. l*2mo. 4s.

MAUREL'S Character, Actions, and Writings of Wellington.

            Fcap. Svo. U. ed

MAYNE'S (Capt.) Four Years in British Columbia and Van
             couver Inland. Illustrations. 8vo. 16s.

MEADE'S (Hon. Herbert) Ride through the Disturbed Districts of

            New Zealand, with a Cruise among the South Sea Islands. With Illus
             trations. Medinm 8vo. 12s.

MELVILLE'S (Hermann) Marquesas and South Sea Islands.
             S Vols. Post 8vo. 7s.

MEREDITH'S (Mrs. Charles) Notes and Sketches of New South

             Wales. Post 8vo. 2s.

MESSIAH (THE) : The Life, Travels, Death, Resurrection, and

            Ascension of our Blessed Lord. By A Layman. Map. 8vo. 18s.

MILLINGTON'S (Rev. T. S.) Signs and Wonders in the Land of

             Ham, or the Ten Plagues of Egypt. with Ancient aod Moderu Illustra
             tions. Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

MILMAN'S (Deas) History of the Jews, from the earliest Period
             down to Modern Times. 3 Vols. Post 6vo. 18s.

          Early Christianity, from the Birth of Christ to the
Abolition of Paganism in the Roman Empire. 8 Vols. Post 8vo. 18s.
          Latin Christianity, including that of the Popes to
     P-ontAifincantaelsof  Nicholas V.       V..U. Post8vo. 54s.
the                        of St. Paul's  9  Cathedral, from the

                                                                  Romans  to

the funeral of Wellington. Portrait and Illustrations. 8vo. 18s.

          Character and Conduct of the Apostles considered

              as an Evidence of Christianity. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

                    Quinti Horatii Flacci Opera. With 100 Woodcuts.

              Small 8vo. 7s. Sd.

                - Life of Quintus Horatius Flaccus. With Illustra

              tions. 8vo. 9s.

                     Poetical Works. The Fall of Jerusalem -- Martyr of
            Antloch -- Balshazzar-- Tamor -- Anne Boleyn -- Fazio, &c With Por
            trait and Illustrations. 8 Vols. Fcap. 8vo. ISs.
. Fall of Jerusalem. Fcap. 8vo. 1*.

MIVART'S  (Capt. E. A.) Wayside Cross. Post 8vo. 2s.
          (St. George) LesBons from Nature ; as manifested in
Mind and Matter. Svo.

MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. Founded on Principles of
Economy and Practical Knowledge. A'c» Edition. Woodcuts. Fcap.8vo. 5s.
                    PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23

MONGREDIEN'S (Aooustus) Trees and Shrubs for English
Plantation. A Selection and Description of tha most Ornamental
which will flourish In the open air in our climate. With Classified
             LUrs.  JWAitCh O30IAIllnNitratoinonsthe8voC. lem16as tis
                                                                       as a Garden  Flower.
MOORE &
Description!! of the Hardy Species and Varieties, with Directions for
their Cultivation. 8vo. IOs. lid
                              Life and Letters of Lord Byron.
MOOREE'Sdition(.ThoWmiiahs)                                                         Cabinet
                             Plate <. 6 Vols. Fcap. 8vo. 18s. ; Popular              Edi»ion,
with Portraits. Royal Svo. 7m.6d.
MOSSMAN'8 (Samuel) New Japan; the Land of the Rising Snn ;

              Its Annals and Progress during the past Twenty Years, recording the
            remarkable Progress of (he Japanese in Western Civilisation. With
Map. 8vo. 15s.
MOTLEY'S (J. L.) History of the United Netherlands : from the

            Death of William the Silent to the Twelve Years' Truce, 1609. Library
            Riitim. Portraits. 4 Vols. 8vo. 60s. Cabinet Edition. 4 Vols. Post

8vo. 6s. each.               Life and Death of John of Burneveld,

Advocate of Holland. With a View of the Primary Canses and
Movements of the Thirty Ye trs' War. Library Edition. Illustrations.
2 Vols. 8vo. 28s. Cabinrt Kdition. 2 vols. Post 8vo. 12s.
MOUHOT'S (Hbsri) Siam, Cambojia, and Lao ; a Narrative of
Travels and Discoveries. Illustrations. 2 Vols. 8vo.
MOZLEY'S (Canon) Treatise on Predestination. 8vo. 14s.
Primitive Doctrine of Baptismal Regeneration. 8vo. 7a.6d.
MUIRH BAD'S (J as.) Vaux-de-Vire of Maistre Jean La Houx,

            Advocate of Vlre. Translated and Edited. With Portrait and Illus
trations. 8vo.
MUNRO'S (Gihbral) Life and Letters. By Riv. G. R. Glbio.
Post 8vo. 3s. 6d.
MORCHISON'S (Sir Rodericb) Silaria ; or, a History of the

              Oldest rocks containing Organic Remains. Hap and Plates. 8vo. 18s.
                    Memoirs. With Notic.s of his Contemporaries,
and Rise and Progress of Palrcozolc Geology. By Abcuibald Obibie.
             Portraits. 2 Vols. 8vo. 80s.

I'llR".AILWAYMTMhNIWMAMNDUfuiblOira»uMMirim»BRlInlobB1nlMUirbCORbo'HHa>*oDrb'oAVlrnm*o»FD"aiYrTODio"a»i)hBFm'ThrNFSaiiR.oiu.TabBliialBiht*i.BibaI.ooCT.ltri-TShiLFIlJsIiTla.iU.o1EiviiHiindFi.irdI,»d.o.i.is.oIl'Rfisk.Iis.lH..l*iid..iSlah.»..itmd1.iR. ,EADINTPTMCHCHNHIIaibaGuibatbalm»MbuJiaoabIl.birwClord'eomoP»bi'aTbbdilibu'otlli'.'H'sDw'ihEiC"OiombiJNhioioAWtiboi»asnDTNtbl»hb.OiBoitlbDoialabaIikiibohhlbkwilrssRolnrQlAar».boonoisA»uhoafnm.l«b.dhliisi.glc.B..l.i.oiai:t»fI--cI»I.tis».dUoi.i.U.inI.h.ti..i...Mla.iS.ts.Is. .id.

MUSTERS' (Capt.) Patagonians ; a Year's Wanderings over
Untrodden Ground from the Straits of Magellan to the Rio Negro.
Illustrations P .st 870 Is. At*.
NAPIER'S (Sir Chas.) Life. Journals, and Letters. Portraits.
4 Vols. Crown 8vo. 48i.
                    (Sib Wm.) Life and Letters. Poitraits. 2 Yola.
Crown 8vo. 28s.
                    English Battles and Sieges of the Peninsular War.
Portrait. Post 8vo. to.
NAPOLEON at Fontainbbleai; attd Elba.                                  SirANpJiol uCranmaplbello, f

             Occurrences and Notes of Conversations. By
C.B. With a Memoir. By Rbv. A. N. C. Maclachlah. M.A. Portrait.

               8vo. 15».

NASMYTH Ain, CARPENTER. The Moon. Considered as a
Planet, a World, and a Satellite With Jlluatratlons from Drawings
made with the aid of Powerful Telescopes, Woodcuts, Ae. 4to. 80s.
24 LIST OP WORK8

NAUTICAL ALMANAC (The). (By Authority.)                                 2s. 6d.
NAVY LIST. (Monthly and Quarterly.) Post 8vo.

NEW TESTAMENT. With Short Explanatory Commentary.

            By Archdeacon Chortox, M.A., and Archdeacon Basil Jones, M.A.
            With 110 anthentic Views, Ac. 2 Vols. Crown 8vo 2ls. bound.

NEWTH'S (Samuel) First                Book of Natural        Philosophy ; an Intro

             duction to the Stndy of   Statics, riytiamlcs,  Hydrostatics, Optics, and
Acoustics, with numerous Examples. Small 8vo. 3*. 6d.

            Elements of Mechanics, including Hydrostatics,
with numerous Examples. Small Svo. 8s. 6d.
                                                             A Graduated
                 Mathematical Examinations.

Scries of Elementary Examples in Arithmetic, Algebra, Logarithms,
Trigonometry, and Mechanics. Small 8vo. 8s . 64
NICHOLS' (J. O.) Pilgrimages to Walsingl am and Canterbury.

           By.EraS*ius. Translated, with Notes. With Illustrations. Post 8vo. 6*.
        (Sir George) History of the English, Irish and

Scotch Poor Laws. 4 Vols. 8vo.
NICOLAS' (Sia Harris) Historic Peerage of England. Exhi
biting the Origin, Descent, and Present State of every Title of Peer
age which has existed                  in this Country       sinoe the Conquest.  By
                                      8vo. 80s.
William Coubthope.
NIMROD, On the Chace-- Turf--and Koad. With Portrait and
Plates. Crown 8vo. 6s. Or with Coloured Plates, 7*. 6VI.
NORDHOFF'S (Chas) Communistic Societies of the United

              States; including Detailed Accounts of the Shakers, The Amana,
             Oneiita, Belhell, Aurora, Icarian and other existing Societies; with
            Particulars ol their Religious Creeds, Industries, and Prtseat Condi

          tion. With 40 initiations. 8vo. 15s.
OLD LONDON ; Papers read at the Archaeological Institute.
             By various Authors. 8vo. 12s.

ORMATHWAITE'S (Lord) Astronomy and Geology-- Darwin and

            Buckle-- Progress and Civilisation. Crown 8vo. 6s.
OWEN'S (Lieut.-Col.) Principles and Practice of Modern Artillery,
           inclnding Artillery Material, Gunnery, and Organisation and Use ot
           Artillery in Warfare. With Illustrations. 8vo. 15*.
OXENHAM'S (Rev. W.) English Notes for Latin Elegiacs ; designed

            for early Proficients In the Art of Latin Versification, with Prefatory
            Rules of Composition in Elegiac Metre. 12mo. 8s. 64
PALGRAVE'S (R. H.                     Local Taxation of Great Britain and
                                     I.)
Ireland. 8vo. 5*.
                                                            2
           Notes on Barbing in Great Britain and Ire                                                                            ;
           land, Sweden, Denmarb, and Hamuubo, with some Remarks on
           the amount of Bills in t-irculatlon, both Inland and Foreign. 8vo. 6s.

PALLISER'S (Mrs.) Brittany and its Byeways, its Inhabitants,

           and Antiquities. With Illustrations. Post 8vo. 12s.
Mottoes for Monuments, or Epitaphs selected for
             General Use and Stndy.    With Illustrations.    Crown 8vo. 7s. 64
                                      in Sport made          Science in Earnest
PARIS' (Dr.) Philosophy
or, the First Principles of Natural Philosophy incuicated by aid of the
Toys and Sports of Youth. Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 7s. 6U
PARKMAN'S (Francis) Discovery of the Great West; or, The
VaHeys of the Mississippi and the Lakes of North America. An
              Historical Narrative.   Map. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

PARKYNS' 'Mansfield)                  Three Years' Residence in Abyssinia:
with Travels in that Country. With Illustrations. Post 8vo. 7*. 64
PEEK PRIZE ESSAYS. The Maintenance of the Church of
England as  an Established Church.                           Chableb    Hole--    Bev.
B. Watson                             LBloyyRde. v.          8vo. 10j.  64
            Dixon --and Rev. Julius
PEEL'S (Sib Robert) Memoirs.
                                      Vols. Post 8vo. 15«.
                      PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                                              25

PENN'Splay(eRr.ichWaordod)cutMs.axiFmcaap.  and   Hints  for  an      Angler                          and Chess
                                            8vo.  U.
                                                                           Part                             Fuel,

                                                                      Materials,                       Flre-Claya,
                      I.,                                Vol.

                                      2.

                                                                    I.,

                                                                                                    1.
PERCY'S (JoHit, M.D.) Metallurgy.
      Wood, Peat, Coal, Charcoal, Coke, Refractory
      &e. With Illustrations.            8vo. 30s.
                      Vol. Part
      tions 8vo                           Copper, Zinc, Brass. With Illustra
                      II.          Iron                                                [I» the Pras.
           Vol
                                         and SteeL With Illustrations. 8vo.

                                                                                     [In Prepara»ion.
      Vol. III. Lead, including part of Silver. With Illus

      trations. 8vo. 90s.                   Gold, Silver, and Mercury, Platinum,

           Vols. IV. and V.
      Tin, Nickel, Cobalt, Antimony, Bismuth, Arsenic, and other Metals.
      With Illustrations. 8vo.                                                       [In Preparation.
                                                                   through Europe in
PERSIA'S              (Shah of)    Diary during his      BTyonJr.  W. Rbdhousb. With

               1873.   Translated  from the Original.
      Portrait and Coloured Title. Crown 8vo. 12a.
PHILLIPS' G(Jeoohlong)yMeomf oirYsorokfshWirileli,amThSemiCtho.ast8,voa. n7ds.6<LiLmestone
      District Plates.                Vols. 4to.
                                   2                                                                  Yorkshire.

                      Rivers, Mountains, and Sea Coast                               of

      With Essays on the Climate, Scenery, and Ancient Inhabitants.
      Plates. 8vo. 15s.
                                   Literary Essays from " The Times."                                   With
                      (Samuel)
      Portrait,       Vols.        Fcap. 8vo. Is.
                      it                    VoWls.itIh, II.I,ntVroI,duVcIIt.i,onVsIII.andWitNhotPeosr,
POPE'S (Alexanhkr)                 Works.
           by Rav. Whitwbu.J.      Elwim.

             traits. 8vo. t0s. 8d. each.                              Lebanon.                              With
                                                                       llanran.
PORTER'S (Rev. L.) Damascus, Palmyra, and                                                               Map and

             Travels among the Giant Cities of Bashan and the
      Woodcut*. Post8vo. Is. 6U
PRAYER-BOOK (Illustrated), with Borders, Initials, Vig
      nettes, Ae. Edited, with Notes, by Rbv. Thos. Jambs. Medinm
      8vo. I8s. cloth 3U. 6d calf 36l. morocco.
                      ;                     ;

PRINCESS CHARLOTTE OP WALES.                                          A              Brief Memoir.

PUSS  WPaipthers.SeleBcytioLnasdvfroRmosaheWr bCioorarelsl.ponWdiethncePoratnradit.  other            unpublished
      IN BOOTS. With 12 Illustrations. By                                               8vo.          8s. 6i.
                                                                                                      Spbobter,
                                                                                     Otto

           16mo. la. 6d. Or coloured, is. lid.                        Questions of the

PRINCIPLES AT STAKE. Essays on Church
      Day. 8vo. 12s. Contents: --
                                                                   Ritual.--Canon Bernard.
Ritualism and Uniformity. -- Benjamin             Scripture   and  South Africa. -- Arthur
   Shaw.                                          Church     in
                                                  Mills.
The Episcopate. -- Bishop of Bath and             -Schlsmatical Tendency of Ritualism.
   Wells.                                               Rev.  Dr.  thSealLmitounr.gy.--Rev.             W.  Q.
                                                  Revisions   of
The Priesthood.-- Dean of Canterbury.             Humphry.
National Education. -- Rev. Alexander             Parlies and Party Spirit-- Dean of

   R. Grant.                                      Chester.
Doctrine of tbe Eucharist.-- Rev. G.

   H. Sumner.

PRIVY COUNCIL JUDGMENTS in Ecclesiastical Cases re
      lating to Doctrine and Discipline.                 With Historical Introduction,
      by G. C. Beodbicb and W. H. Fbmiaiitlb. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

QUARTERLY REVIEW (The). 8vo. 6s.

RAE'S (Edward) Land of the North                          Wind     ;  or Travels among
                                                                      Shores of the White
             the Laplanders and Samoyedes, and           along the
      Sea. With Map and Woodcuta. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

RAMBLES in the Syrian Deserts. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.
26 LIST OF WORKS

RANKE'S (Leopold) History of the Popes of Rome daring the
16th *nd 17th Centuries. Translated from the German by Sabab
Ausnx. 3 Vols. 8vo. SO).
RASSAM'S             (HWoitrhmuNzodt)icesNaorf rathteivCeouontfrieths e    British  Mission to Abys

             sinia.                                                      Traversed  from Massowah to
Magdala. Illustrations. 2 Vols. 8vo. 28s.
RAWLINSON'8 (Canon) Herodotus. A New English Ver

           sion. Edited with Notes and Essays. Haps and Woodcut, 4 Vols.
8vo. 48*.
                        Five Great Monarchies of Chaldsea, Assyria,
Media, Babylonia, and Persia. With Maps and Illustrations. S Vols.

8vo. 42a.
. (Sir Henry) England and Bu sia in the East ; a
Series of Papers on the Pulltirul and Geographical Condition of Central
Asia. Map 8vo. 12s
SEED'S (K. J.) Shipbuilding in Iron and Steel; a Practical
Treatise, giving full details of Construction, Processes of Manufacture,
'--andIroBnuil-diCnlgadArraSnhgiepms e;ntst. heWirith       6 Plans and  250 Woodcuts. 8vo.
                                                            Qualities,    Performances, and
Cost. With Chapters on Turret Ships, Iron-Clad Rama, Ac. With
              Illustrations. 8vo. 12a.

REJECTED ADDRESSES (The). By James and Horace Smith.
              Woodcuts  Post Svo. 3/. 6d.                ;  or Popular Ration, Fcap. Svo. 1s.
                                                         ;   or, Notes on the Resources                              and
RESIDENCE IN             BULGARIA                           By S. G. B. St.Claib and Ciurlbs A.
                        of Turkey, Ac.

                         12*.
RABdwmirinniys.tratSiovon.                                                              Leslie,
REYNOLDS'             T(oSmibTaJoyslohru.a)    Life and      Times.      By         C.
                                                            Vols. 8vo.
            R.A. and                         Portraits. 2
RICARDO'S
                      (WDraitviindg)s.  PBoylitJi.cRa.l    Works.        With a Notice of his
            Life and                                     H'Cdlloch.
                                                                          8vo. 16a.
RIPA'S (Father) Thirteen Years' Residence at the Court of Peking.
Post 8vo. S*.
ROBERTSON'S (Canon) History of the Christian Church, from
the Apostolic Age to the R*'ormatlon, 1517- IAbrnry Edition. 4 Vols.
8vo. Cabinet Kdilim. 8 Vols. Post 8vo. 6*. each.
                        How shall we Conform to the Liturgy. ]2mo. 9>.
ROME. See Liddell and Smith.
ROWLAND'S (Davtd) Maiiual of the English Constitution.

            Its Rise, Growth, and Present 8tate. Post 8vo. 10s. M.

                      Laws of Nature the Foundation of Morals. Post 8vo. 6«.

ROBSON'S (E. R.) School ARcniTECTuRK. Being Practical Re

              marks on the Planning. Designing, Building, and Furnishing of
            School-houses. With 300 Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 31s. 64

RUNDELL'S (M«s.) Modern Domestic Cookery. Fcap. 8vo. 6s.
BUXTON'S (Georoe F.) Travels in Mexico; with Adventures

           among the Wild Tribes and Animals of the Prairies and Rocky Moun
           tains. Post 8vo. 8a. id.

ROBINSON'S (Rev. Dr.) Biblical Researches in Palestine and the

              Adjacent Regions, 1-SW-- 52. Maps. 8 Vols. 8vo. 42s.

. Physical Geography of the Holy Land. Po 8vo.
                                                            ;
                                                                                                                j.t
10*. 6d.

              (W a.) Alpine Flowers for English Gardens. With

70 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 12s.

              Wild Gardens; or, our Groves and Shrubberies
made beantiful by the Naturalization of Hardy Exotic Plants. With

Frontispiece. Small 8vo. 6s.

            Sub- Tropica' Gardens or, Beauty of Form in O.he
Flower Garden. W ith Illustrations. Small Svo. 7a. 6d.
                    PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                                                    27

SSACLHEL'SIEttthhivee(eMSTDiAorbeoffNejaRRnNnceoesb'eSPealaobrfictn(h)DJ.eealslBa.ElraadiHagbitiaaeedddnD.erisybcy)oIBnvyPeTArbirReiflogsispyvhm.aaS&Gnnmt.lidesitRtho.a,IntGnsBt.lh.fARiioW.eS.miitWteahPiintoohsfsat,nIMli8nAavmpAoc.sc,,oNuaV2ananied.rtwrasion, f
and 500 Illustrations. Medinm 8vo. 42s.
SCOTT'S (Sib G. G.) Secular and Domestic Architecture, Present
and Future. 8vo. 9s.
                        Uniyereity   Sermons.       Post 8vo.
                (Deah)                ROOM.          With a       8s. Sd.  by                             Canon
                         A SICK                                   Preface
SHADOWS OF
Liddon. 16mo. 2s 6d
SCROPE'S (G. P.) Geology and Extinct Volcanoes of Central
France. Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 30s.
SHAW'S                                 of English Literature.        Post 8vo. 7*.                              6d.
                     (T. B.) Manual  English Literature.          Selected from                                 the
                    Specimens of
Chief Writers. Post 8vo. Is. 6d.
  (Robebt) Visit to High                            Tartary, Yarkand,     and Kashgar
                                                     Return Journey over  the Karakorum
(formerly Chinese Tartary), and
Pass. With Map and Illustrations. 8vo. 16s.
SHIRLEY'S (Evelyh P.) Deer and Deer Parks ; or                            some Account
                                                                          of Deer. Illus
            of English Parks, with Notes on the Management
             trations. 4to. 9 is.

SIERRA LEONE ; Described in Letters to Friends at Home. By
          A Ladt. Post 8vo. 8s. 6d.
SINCLAIR'S (Ahchdeacos) Old Times and Distant Places.                                                           A

Series of Sketches. Crown 8vo. 9s.                                                                        Period
SMILES'                           British Engineers;      from the Earliest
                      (Sahubl)                      With  Illustrations. 5 Vols.                            Crown
                to                the Stephensonn.
                    the death of

8vo. 7s. 6u\ each.                                        Illustrations.   Medium

    George and Robert Stephenson.

8vo. 21s.

   Boullon and Watt. Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 21s.
                    Self-Help. With Illustrations of Conduct and Persever
anceT. hChProaifsrtta.c8tveor.A. 6s.CAomOrpSiaennqFiuoreenlncht,Vo o5l"su. mSeelf-tHoel"p.S"e'f-PHe,sltp
                                                                                                          8vo.    6s.
                                                                                                            "   and

" Character." Post 8vo. 6s.                                       With Illustrations.

     Boy's Voyage round the World.
Post8vo. 6s.
STANLEY'S (Dean) Sinai and Palestine,                      in  connexion   with their
                                                          Us
           History. 2<,tA Thousand. Map. 8vo.
                    Bible in the Holy Land ; Extracted from the above
Work. Second Edition. Weodcuts. Fcap. 8w>. 2s 6d.
         Eastern Church. Fourth Edition. Plans. 8vo. 12s.
                    Jewish Church. 1st & 2nd Series. From the Earliest

Times to the Captivity 8vo. 24s.

                           Third Series. From the Captivity to the

Destruction of Jerusalem. 8vo.                            7s. M.
         Church of Scotland. 8vo.
                                                                           Woodcuts.
                    Memorials of Canterbury Cathedral.

Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.                    Westminster Abbey. With Illustra

tions. 8vo. 2 is.

         Sermons during a Tour in the East. 8vo. 9s.
        Addresses and Chaboes or the latb Bishop Siahlbv.
With Memoir. 8vo. 10s. M
            Epistles of St. Paul to the Corinthians. 8vo. 18s.
28 LIST OF WORKS

SMITH'S (Dr. Wm ) Dictionary or the Bible ; iU Antiquities,

              Biography, Geography, and Natural History. Illustrations. S Vols.
             8vo. 105s.

* Concise Bible Dictionary. With 300 Illustrations.
Medinm 8vo. 21s.

Smaller Bible Dictionary. With 11lustrations. Poet
8vo. 7s. ftt

Christian Ant:quities. Comprising the History, Insti
tutions, and Antiquities of tbe Christian Churcb. With Illustrations.
Vol. I.  --8vo. 81s. 6d.

                   Biography  and Doctrines;  from the Times of the
Apostles to the Age of Charlemagne. 8vo.
                                                        [/a Preparation
       Atlas of Ancient Geography -- Biblical          and Classical.
Folio. 61 6i.

Greek and Roman Antiquities. With 500 Illustra
tions. Medinm 8vo. S8l.

--600 Illustrations.             Biography and Mythology. With
                      3 Vols. Medinm 8r-. 4! 4i

                                 Geography. 2 Vols. With 500
Illustrations. Medinm 8vo. b6s.

      Classical Dictionary of Mythology, Biography, and
Geography. I Vol. With 750 Woodcuts. 8vo. 18s.

      Smaller Classical Dictionary.           With 200 Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo. Is. 6d.

                 Greek and Roman Antiquities. With 200 Wood

cuts. Crows 8vo. 7s. 6d.

       Latin-English Dictionary. With Tables of the Roman

Calendar, Measures, Weights, and Money. Medinm 6vo. 2ls.

8maller Latin-English Dictionary. 12mo. Vs. 6d.

English-Latin Dictionary. Medium 8vo. 21«.

Smaller English Latin Dictionary. 12mo. 7«. 6<£

       School Manual of English Grammar,               with Copiong

  Exercises. Post 8vo. Si. b'd.                         12mo.
- Modern Geography.                                        [Nearly

       Primary English Grammar. lCmo. Is

               History of Britain. 1 2mo. 2s. 6i.
French Principia. Part I. A First Course, containing a
Grammar, Delectus, Exercises, and Vocabularies, lxmo. ?s. M.
                         Part II. A Reading Book, containing
Fables, Stories, and  Anecdotes, Natural History, and Scenes from the
History of France.     With Grammatical Questions, Notes and copious
Etymological Dictionary. 12mo. is. 6U
                         Part III. Prose Composition, contain
ing a SI stematlc Course of Exercises on the  Syntax, with the Principal
Rules of Syntax. 12mo.                                           [/a Uie Prxu.

     German Princ'pia, Part I. A              First German Course,
outlining a Grammar, Delectus, Exercise
lxmo. is. 6d.                                   Book, and Vocabularies,

                                      Part II. A Reading Book ;
containing Fables, Stories, ar.d Amcdotes, Natural Ilistory, and
III.Sccnes from the History of Germany.

Notes, and Dictionary. 17mo. 3s. 6d.
                                      With Grammatical  Questions,

tion to German Prose Composition      Part             An Introduc
of Exercises on the Syntax, with the
                                      ; containing a   Systematic  Course
                                      Principal Rules  of Syntax.   12mo.
                                                       [In the Prtu.
              PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                             29

SMITH'S (Dr. Wm.) Principia Latina-- Part I. First Latin Course,

             containing a Grammar, Delectus, and Exercise Book, with Vocabularies.

   12mo. 8*. 6d.
   In this Edition        Cases    oofrdthineabNyounGsr,amAmdjaercstiveasn,d
                     the  in tlie                                             and   Pronouns are
      arraDgrd both  as                                                       a.*  in the Public
   School Pbuub, together with the corresponding Exercises.
                     . Part II. A Reading-book of Mytho
   logy. Geography, Roman Antiquities, and History. With Motes and
   Dictionary. 12mo. 3*. id.

                            Part III. A Poetry Book. Hex
   ameters and Pentameters; Eclog. Oridianas; Latin Prosody. 12mo.
   u.ed.
. Part IV. Prose Composition. Eules of
   Syntax with Examples, Explanations of Synonyms, and Exercises
   on the Syntax. 12mo. 8*. 6tf.

   . Part V. Short Tales and Anecdotes

     for Translation into Latin. 12mo. 3s.

       Latin-English Vocabulary and First Latin-English
   Dictionary for PhfeJrus, Cornelius Nepos, and Caesar. 12mo. 3s. 6d.

        Student's Latin Grammar. Post 8ro. 6*.

       Smaller Latin Grammar. 12mo. 3s. 6d.

     Tacitus, Gennania, Agricola, &c With English Notes.
     12mo. 3s. id.
       Initia Grteca, Part I. A First Greek Course, con
   taining a Grammar, Delectus, and Exercise-book. With Vocabu
     laries.  12mo. 3s. 6d.
                                    A Reading
                          Part II.             Book.                               Containing

     Short Tales, Anecdotes, Fables, Mythology, and Grecian History.
   12mo. Sa. id.
                          Part III. Prose Composition. Containing
.

__--«the Rules of Syntax, with copious Examples and Exercises.                     Urno.
     3a. id.
              Student's Greek Grammar. By Professor Cortids.
     Post 8vo. 6s.
       Smaller Greek Grammar. 12mo. Ze. 6d.

. Greek Accidence. Extracted from the above work.
     12mo. 2s. id.
       Plato. The Apology of Socrates, the Crito, and Part of
     the Phssdo; with Notes in English from Stallbaum                         and Schleierma-
     cher's Introductions, ltato. 3*. id.

       Smaller Scripture History. Woodcuts. 16mo. 3*. 6d
                     Ancient History. Woodcuts. 16mo. 3s. 6d.

. Geography. Woodcuts. 16mo. Za. 6c£
                  Rome. Woodcuts. 16mo. 3«. id.
   -- Greece. Woodcuts. 16mo. ia. 6d.

              ^Classical Mythology. Woodcuts ISmo. S3. GJ.
              History of England. Woodcuts. 16mo. 3*. 6d.

                          English Literature. 16mo. Ss. 6d.
                           Specimens of English Literature. 16mo. 3s.6d
               (Philip) History of the Ancient World, from the
           Creation to the Fall of the Roman Empire, a.d. 455. fourth Edition.

             3 Vols. 8vo. 81*. 6d.

              (Riv. A. C.) Nile and its Binks. Woodcuts. 2 Vols.

             Post 8vo. ISt.

SIMMON8' (Cam.) Constitution and Practice of Courts-Mar

             tial. Seventh Edition. 8vo. lSs.
SO LJ8T OF WORKS

STUDENT'S OLD TESTAMENT HISTORY; from the Creation
to the Return of the Jews from Captivity. Maps and Woodcuts. Poet
8vo. Is. 6,t.
                                                            HISTORY.           With an Intro
          NEW TESTAMENT
duction connecting the History of the Old and New Testaments. Maps
and Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 7s. M.
        ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY. A History of the
Christian Church from Its Foundation to                     the Eve of the     Protestant
Reformation. Post t-vo. I* 6d.
                                                            THE EAST;             Egypt,
        ANCIENT HISTORY OP
Assyria, Babylonia, Media, Persia, Asia Minor, and Phoenicia. Wood
        Post 8vo.  7s. 6d.
cuts.                                                       By Riv. W. L. Bbvah.
                         GEOGRAPHY.
                               7s. ty,
Woodcuts. PostSvo.                                                        from the Earliest
                               OP GREECE;
         HISTORY
Times to the Roman Conquest By Wm. Smith, D.C.L. Woodcnta.
         8vo. 7s. Sot.
Crown                          above   Work, 12mo. Is.
    **  QuHesItSioTnsOoRnYthe
                               OP     ROME; from
                                                                          the  Earliest  Time*
to the Establishment of the Empire. By Dean Liddxll. Woodcuts.
Crown 8»o. 7s. 6d.
        GIBBON'S Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
WoodcutHs. ALPoLsAt M8vo'S.    7s. M.
                               HISTORY                      OF EUROPE          during the
        Auea. Post "vo. 7s. M.
Middle                                                      OF ENGLAND;
        HALLAM'S HISTORY
                                                                               from the
Accession of Henry VII. to the Death of George II. Post 8vo. 7l. M.
        HUME'S History of England from the Invasion
of Julins Cesar to the Revolution in 1668. Continued down to 1863.
Wo"o.·dcuQtusHe. sItSioPTnoOsstRo8nvYot.heO7aF>b.oFRvedR. AWNoiCk,E12;mof. rom2s. the Earliest Time*
to the Establishment of the Second Empire, 1852. By Rev. H. W.
Jervib. Woodcuts. PostSvo. 7».M.

         ENGLISH LANGUAGE. By Geo. P. Marsh.

Post 8vo. 7s. 6d. LITERATURE. By T. B. Shaw, M.A.

   Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

         SPECIMENS of English Literature from the Chief

Writers. By T. B. Shaw, Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

        MODERN GEOGRAPHY ; Mathematical, Physi-
cat, and Descriptive. By Rev. W. L. He van. Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 7s. M.

        MORAL PHILOSOPHY. By William Flmuho,

D.D. Post 8vo. 7». 6d.

                BLACKSTONE'S Commentaries on the Laws of
          England. By R. Malcolm Kerr. LL.D. Post8vo. It. 6d.
SPALDING'S (Captain) Tale of Frithiof. Translated from the

           Swedish of Ksias Teqner. Post 8vo. Is. 6a\

STEPHEN'S (Rev. W. R.) Life and Times of St. Chrysoatom.

              With Portrait. 8vo. 15s.

ST. JAMES (The) LECTURES. Companions for the Devout
Life. By the following anthors. 8vo. 7s. 6d.
Imitation or Chbibt. Rev. Db. Kabbah.
Pascal's Pensees. Dean Chukch.
8. Fbancoib de Sales.   Dean Goulboubn.
Faxter's Saints' Rest.  Abchbishop Tbench.
                                                             Al.KXANdKb.
JBe.beAmUOv UhTtaiNyBloBr'sCosHFbossl1yOHLb.ivingB1a8hnOdP  Dying. Rev.   Db   Himiurt
    PUBLISHED BY MR. MURRAY.                                                  81

3T. JOHN'S (Charles) Wild Sports and Natural History of the

             Highlands. Post 8vo. 8a. 6d.

                  (BatlE) Adventures in the Libyan Desert. Post 8to. 2s.
STORIES FOE DARLINGS. With Illustrations. 16mo. 5».

STREET'S (Q. E.) Gothic Architecture            in Spain. Prom Personal
                                               Journeys. With Illustrations.
             Observations made during several
Royal 8vo. 80s.
                                                   in  Italy, chiefly    WinithB6r0icIkl
              ··  With Notes  of Tours                 North .of Italy.
and Marble.                                    in the

lustrations. Royal 8vo. 26».
STANHOPE'S (Earl) England during the Reign of Queen Anne,
1701--13. Library Edition. Svo. 18s. Cabinet Edition. Portrait. 2 Vols.

Poat bVo. 10».                from the Peace of Utrecht to the

Peace of Versailles, 1713-83. Library Edition. 7 vols. svo. 93s.
Cabinet Edixion, 7 vols. Post 8vo. Ss. each.
                   Inofdi"aF, ofrrotmy-FitivseO."rigPinostto
    British                                                   1783.    8vo.  3». 6d.
    History                                                   8vo.   3».

    Historical and Critical Essays. Post 8vo. 8s. 6<i.

- Life of Belisarius. Post 8vo. 10s. (id.

                   iConde. Post 8vo. 8s. 6d.

                   William Pitt Portraits, Vols. 8vo. 24s.

--  Miscellanies.             2 Vols.          Post 8vo. 13s.
    Story of Joan             of Arc.          Fcap. 8vo. Is.

-- Addresses Delivered on Various Occasions. ISmo. Is.

STYFFE'S (Knutt) Strength of Iron and Steel. Plates. 8vo. 12*.

SOMERVILLE'S (Marv) Personal Recollections from Early Life

           to Old Age. With Selections from her Correspondence. Portrait.
             Croirn Svo. 12*.

                          Physical Geography. Portrait. Post 8vo.

                  Connexion of the Physical Sciences. Portrait.

Post 8vo.                                                     Science.       Illustra
                 Molecular and Microscopic

tions. 2 Vols. Post8vo. 21a.

SOUTHE Y'S (Robert) Book of the Church. Port Svo. 7s. 6d.
                  lives of Bunyan and Cromwell. Post 8vo. 2s.

SWAINSON'S (Canon) Nicene                      and    Apostles'  Creeds;      Their
                                                     Account of  ''The Creed
             Literary History ; together with  some                           of St.

Athanasius." 8vo.

SYBEL'S (Von) History of Europe during the French Revolution,

              1789-1795. 4 Voib. 8vo. 48«.

SYMONDS' (Rbt. W.) Records of the Rocks; or Notes on the

             Geology, Natural History, and Antiquities of North and South Wales,
            Silurla, Devon, and Cornwall. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo: 12a.

TAYLOR'S (Sib Hbnrt) Notes from Life. Fcap. 8vo. 2s.
THIELMAN'S (Baron) Journey through the Caucasus to

            Tabreez, Kurdistan, down the Tigris and Euphrates to Nineveh and
              Babylon, and across the Desert to Palmyra. Translated by Chas.
              Hbsbaob. Illustration-!. 2 Vols. Post 8vo. 18s.

THOMS' (W. J.) Longevity of Man ; its Facts and its Fiction.
              Inclnding Observations on the more Remarkable Instances. Post Svo.
            10». M.

THOMSON'S (Archbishop) Lincoln's Inn Sermons. 8vo. 10s. 6oJ.
    Life in the Light of God's Word. Post 8vo. 5s.
32 LIST OP WORKS PUBLISHED BY MR. HURRAY.

TOCQUEVILLE'3 State of Society in France before the Revolution,

            1789, and on the Csuses which led to that Event. Translated by Henry
            Risvb. 8»o. 12a.

TOMLINSON (Charles); The Sonnet; Its Origin, Structure, and

           Flaoe in Poetry. With translations from Dante, Petraich, &e. Post
             8vo. 9s.

TOZER'S (Riv. H. F.) Highlands of Turkey, with Visits to Mounts

             Ida, Athos, Olympus, and Pelton. 2 Vols Crown 8vo. 24l.

                Lectures on the Geography of Greece. Map. Poet

                8vo. 8s.

TRISTRAM'S (Cahon) Great Sahara. Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 15».
                 Land of Moab ; Travels and Discoveries on the East
Side of the Dead Sea and the Jordan. Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 15s.
TWISLETON (Kdward). The Tongue not Essential to Speech,
with Illustrations of the Power of Speech in the case of the African
Confessors. Post 8vo. 6s.
TWISS' (Horaor) Life of Lord Eldon. 2 Vols. Post 8vo. 21«.
TYLORo'Sf Ci(vEll.iulBio.)n.          Early    History    of  Mankind,  and
                                                                             Development
                                         8vo.  12s.

                         Primitive Culture ; the Development of Mythology,
Philosophy, Religion. Art, and Custom. 2 Vols. 8vo. 24s.

YAMBERY'S (Armimus) Travels from Teheran across the Turko
man Desert on the Eastern Shore of the Caspian. Illustrations. 8vo. 2U.
VAN LENNEP'S (Hebry J.) Travels in Asia Minor. With
Illustrations of Biblical Literature, and Archaeology. With Woodcuts.
2 Vols. Post 8vo. 24s.

                                      Modern Customs and Manners of Bible Lands,
In illustration of Scripture. With Msps and 800 Illustrations.
2 Vols. 8vo. 21s.
WELLINGTON'S Despatches during his Campaigns in India,
Denmark, Portugal, Spain, the Low Countries, and France. Edited
by Colobbl Guhwtxid. 8 Vols. 8vo. 20s. each,
                                      Supplementary Despatches, relating to India,
Ireland, Denmark, Spanish America, Spain, Portugal, France, Con
gress of Vienna, Waterloo and Paris. Edited by his Son. 14 Vols.
8vo. 20s. each. s»* An Index. 8vo. 20s.
                         Civil and Political Correspondence. Edited by
his Son. Vols. I. to V. 8vo. 20s. each.

                         -- Despatches (Selections from). 8vo. 18«.
                                      Speeches in Parliament. 2 Vols. 8vo. 42*.
WHEELER'S (G.) Choice of a Dwelling ; a Practical Handbook of

              Useful Information on Building a House. Plans. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

WHYMPER'S (Khbubricb) Travels and Adventures in Alaska.
Illustrations. Hvo- 165.
WILBERFORCE'S (Bishop) Essays on Various Subjects. 2 vols.
8vo. 2ls.
                                      Life of William Wilberforce. Portrait Crown
               8vo. e».
                         J.(Sir                G.) Popular Account of        the    Ancient
WILKINSON'S
                         With         500      Woodcuts. 2 Vols. Post «vo.    12s.
             Egyptians.
WOOD'S
                 t8hO.e(CFVaWapHltlie'ahUyibMa)ofPAitehSNfeaocuOerWxcubeIsyS. CDoafOBxorMtxhC.eoLildOdCYxouousmlsle..ctFecWHdaapipt. h.a8nvdo8t.vhoAe. 8rrsG.a16n2edsgo.egdraphbyy
             of

WORDS

             E.

WORDSWORTH'S (Bishop) Athens and Attica. Plates. 8vo. Sa.
- Greece. With 600 Woodcuts. Royal 8vo.
YULE'S                                Book of
                 O(Cilo. lnotanieWl)              Marco   Polo.      Illustrated by the Light
             of                       riters and  Modern  Ti avels.   With Maps and 80 Hates

2 Vols. Medinm 8vo. 63a.

                                                                                                                                                                                    *t

