
                                      THE
                           AUTOBIOGRAPHY

[page 18]

[page] 19

                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

[These headings are as Charles Darwin wrote them down. It will be found that they
                                     do not exactly tally with the text.]

From my birth to going to Cambridge page 21

Cambridge life 56

Voyage of the 'Beagle' 71

From my return home to my marriage 82

From my marriage and residence in London to our settling at Down 96

Residence at Down 114

An account how several books arose 116

An estimation of my mental powers 136

[page 20]

[page] 21

                           May 31st, 1876

            Recollections of the Development of my mind and character

A GERMAN EDITOR having written to me to ask for an account of the development
of my mind and character with some sketch of my autobiography, I have thought that the attempt would amuse me, and might possibly interest my children or their
  children. I know that it would have interested me greatly to have read even so
  short and dull a sketch of the mind of my grandfather written by himself, and what
  he thought and did and how he worked. I have attempted to write the following
  account of myself, as if I were a dead man in another world looking back at my
  own life. Nor have I found this difficult, for life is nearly over with me. I have taken
  no pains about my style of writing.

I was born at Shrewsbury on February 12th, 1809. I have heard my Father say that
he believed that persons with powerful minds generally had memories extending
far back to a very early period of life. This is not my case for my earliest
recollection goes back only to when I was a few months over four years old, when
we went

[page] 22 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

to near Abergele for seabathing, and I recollect some events and places there with
some little distinctness.

My mother died in July 1817, when I was a little over eight years old, and it is odd
that I can remember hardly anything about her except her deathbed, her black
velvet gown, and her curiously constructed worktable. I believe that my
forgetfulness is partly due to my sisters, owing to their great grief, never being
able to speak about her or mention her name and partly to her previous invalid
state. In the spring of this same year I was sent to a dayschool in
Shrewsbury,1 where I staid a year. Before going to school I was educated by my
sister Caroline, but I doubt whether this plan answered. I have been told that I was
much slower in learning than my younger sister Catherine, and I believe that I was
in many ways a naughty boy. Caroline was extremely kind, clever and zealous but
she was too zealous in trying to improve me for I clearly remember after this long
interval of years, saying to myself when about to enter a room where she was
--"What will she blame me for now?" and I made myself dogged so as not to care
what she might say.

By the time I went to this dayschool my taste for natural history, and more
especially for collecting, was well developed. I tried to make out the names of
plants,

1 Kept by Rev. G. Case, minister of the Unitarian Chapel in the High Street. Mrs. Darwin was a
Unitarian and attended Mr. Case's chapel, and my father as a little boy went there with his elder
sisters. But both he and his brother were christened and intended to belong to the Church of
England and after his early boyhood he seems usually to have gone to church and not to Mr.
Case's. It appears (St. James's Gazette, December 15, 1883) that a mural tablet has been erected
to his memory in the chapel, which is now known as the "Free Christian Church."--F D.

[page] 23 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

and collected all sorts of things, shells, seals, franks, coins, and minerals. The
passion for collecting, which leads a man to be a systematic naturalist, a virtuoso
or a miser, was very strong in me, and was clearly innate, as none of my sisters or  brother ever had this taste.

One little event during this year has fixed itself very firmly in my mind, and I hope
that it has done so from my conscience having been afterwards sorely troubled by
it it is curious as showing that apparently I was interested at this early age in the
variability of plants! I told another little boy (I believe it was Leighton,1 who
afterwards become a wellknown Lichenologist and botanist) that I could produce
variously coloured Polyanthuses and Primroses by watering them with certain
coloured fluids, which was of course a monstrous fable, and had never been tried
by me. I may here also confess that as a little boy I was much given to inventing
deliberate falsehoods, and this was always done for the sake of causing
excitement. For instance, I once gathered much valuable fruit from my Father's
trees and hid them in the shrubbery, and then ran in breathless haste to spread the
news that I had discovered a hoard of stolen fruit.2

1 Rev. W. A. Leighton, who was a schoolfellow of my father's at Mr. Case's school, remembers his
bringing a flower to school and saying that his mother had taught him how by looking at the inside
of the blossom the name of the plant could be discovered. Mr. Leighton goes on, "This greatly
roused my attention and curiosity, and I inquired of him repeatedly how this could be done?"--but
his lesson was naturally enough not transmissible.--F. D. William Allport Leighton (18051899),
botanist, educated at St. John's College, Cambridge publishedFlora of Shropshire, Lichen Flora of
Great Britain, and other works.--N. B.

2 His Father wisely treated this tendency not by making crimes of the fibs, but by making light of
the discoveries.--F. D.

[page] 24 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

About this time, or as I hope at a somewhat earlier age, I sometimes stole fruit for
the sake of eating it and one of my schemes was ingenious. The kitchen garden
was kept locked in the evening, and was surrounded by a high wall, but by the aid
of neighbouring trees I could easily get on the coping. I then fixed a long stick into
the hole at the bottom of a rather large flowerpot, and by dragging this upwards
pulled off peaches and plums, which fell into the pot and the prizes were thus
secured. When a very little boy I remember stealing apples from the orchard, for
the sake of giving them away to some boys and young men who lived in a cottage
not far off, but before I gave them the fruit I showed off how quickly I could run
and it is wonderful that I did not perceive that the surprise and admiration which
they expressed at my powers of running, was given for the sake of the apples. But
I well remember that I was delighted at them declaring that they had never seen a
boy run so fast!

I remember clearly only one other incident during the years whilst at Mr. Case's
daily school--namely, the burial of a dragoonsoldier and it is surprising how
clearly I can still see the horse with the man's empty boots and carbine suspended
to the saddle, and the firing over the grave. This scene deeply stirred whatever
poetic fancy there was in me.1

1 It is curious that another Shrewsbury boy should have been impressed by this military funeral Mr.
Gretton, in his Memory's Harkback, says that the scene is so strongly impressed on his mind that he could "walk straight to the spot in St. Chad's churchyard where the poor fellow was buried." The
  soldier was an Inniskilling Dragoon, and the officer in command had been recently wounded at
  Waterloo, where his corps did good service against the French Cuirassiers.--F. D.

  [page] 25 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

In the summer of 1818 I went to Dr. Butler's great school in Shrewsbury, and
remained there for seven years till Midsummer 1825, when I was sixteen years
old. I boarded at this school, so that I had the great advantage of living the life of a
true schoolboy but as the distance was hardly more than a mile to my home, I
very often ran there in the longer intervals between the callings over and before
locking up at night. This I think was in many ways advantageous to me by keeping
up home affections and interests. I remember in the early part of my school life
that I often had to run very quickly to be in time, and from being a fleet runner
was generally successful but when in doubt I prayed earnestly to God to help me,
and I well remember that I attributed my success to the prayers and not to my
quick running, and marvelled how generally I was aided.

I have heard my father and elder sisters say that I had, as a very young boy, a
strong taste for long solitary walks but what I thought about I know not. I often
became quite absorbed, and once, whilst returning to school on the summit of the
old fortifications round Shrewsbury, which had been converted into a public foot
path with no parapet on one side, I walked off and fell to the ground, but the
height was only seven or eight feet. Nevertheless the number of thoughts which
passed through my mind during this very short, but sudden and wholly unexpected
fall, was astonishing, and seem hardly compatible with what physiologists have, I
believe, proved about each thought requiring quite an appreciable amount of time.

[page] 26 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

I must have been a very simple little fellow when I first went to the school. A boy
of the name of Garnett took me into a cakeshop one day, and bought some cakes
for which he did not pay, as the shopman trusted him. When we came out I asked
him why he did not pay for them, and he instantly answered, "Why, do you not
know that my uncle left a great sum of money to the Town on condition that every
tradesman should give whatever was wanted without payment to anyone who wore
his old hat and moved it in a particular manner" and he then showed me how it
was moved. He then went into another shop where he was trusted, and asked for
some small article, moving his hat in the proper manner, and of course obtained it
without payment. When we came out he said, "Now if you like to go by yourself
into that cakeshop (how well I remember its exact position), I will lend you my
hat, and you can get whatever you like if you move the hat on your head properly."
I gladly accepted the generous offer, and went in and asked for some cakes, moved
the old hat, and was walking out of the shop, when the shopman made a rush at
me, so I dropped the cakes and ran away for dear life, and was astonished by
being greeted with shouts of laughter by my false friend Garnett.

I can say in my own favour that I was as a boy humane, but I owed this entirely to
the instruction and example of my sisters. I doubt indeed whether humanity is a  natural or innate quality. I was very fond of collecting eggs, but I never took more
  than a single egg out of a

[page] 27 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

bird's nest, except on one single occasion, when I took all, not for their value, but
from a sort of bravado.

I had a strong taste for angling, and would sit for any number of hours on the bank
of a river or pond watching the float when at Maer1 I was told that I could kill the
worms with salt and water, and from that day I never spitted a living worm, though
at the expense, probably, of some loss of success.

Once as a very little boy, whilst at the dayschool, or before that time, I acted
cruelly, for I beat a puppy I believe, simply from enjoying the sense of power but
the beating could not have been severe, for the puppy did not howl, of which I feel
sure as the spot was near to the house. This act lay heavily on my conscience, as is
shown by my remembering the exact spot where the crime was committed. It
probably lay all the heavier from my love of dogs being then, and for a long time
afterwards, a passion. Dogs seemed to know this, for I was an adept in robbing
their love from their masters.

Nothing could have been worse for the development of my mind than Dr. Butler's
school, as it was strictly classical, nothing else being taught except a little ancient
geography and history. The school as a means of education to me was simply a
blank. During my whole life I have been singularly incapable of mastering any
language. Especial attention was paid to versemaking, and this I could never do
well. I had many friends, and

1 The house of his uncle, Josiah Wedgwood, the younger.--F. D. Here lived a family of Wedgwood
cousins, the youngest of whom became Charles's wife. Maer lay in the heart of the Shropshire
country, only a 20 mile's ride from Shrewsbury.--N. B.

[page] 28 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

got together a grand collection of old verses, which by patching together,
sometimes aided by other boys, I could work into any subject. Much attention was
paid to learning by heart the lessons of the previous day this I could effect with
great facility learning forty or fifty lines of Virgil or Homer, whilst I was in morning
chapel but this exercise was utterly useless, for every verse was forgotten in forty
eight hours. I was not idle, and with the exception of versification, generally
worked conscientiously at my classics, not using cribs. The sole pleasure I ever
received from such studies, was from some of the odes of Horace, which I admired
greatly. When I left the school I was for my age neither high nor low in it and I
believe that I was considered by all my masters and by my Father as a very
ordinary boy, rather below the common standard in intellect. To my deep
mortification my father once said to me, "You care for nothing but shooting, dogs,
and ratcatching, and you will be a disgrace to yourself and all your family." But my
father, who was the kindest man I ever knew, and whose memory I love with all my heart, must have been angry and somewhat unjust when he used such words.

I may here add a few pages about my Father, who was in many ways a remarkable
man.1

He was about 6 feet 2 inches in height, with broad shoulders, and very corpulent,
so that he was the largest

1 This addition (ending p. 43) was written in 1878 or later, and though included in Life and Letters,
Vol. I, p. 11, it was omitted in the Autobiography of the Thinker's Library.--N. B.

[page] 29 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

man whom I ever saw. When he last weighed himself, he was 24 stone, but
afterwards increased much in weight. His chief mental characteristics were his
powers of observation and his sympathy, neither of which have I ever seen
exceeded or even equalled. His sympathy was not only with the distresses of
others, but in a greater degree with the pleasures of all around him. This led him to
be always scheming to give pleasure to others, and, though hating extravagance,
to perform many generous actions. For instance, Mr. B--, a small manufacturer in
Shrewsbury, came to him one day, and said he should be bankrupt unless he could
at once borrow £10,000, but that he was unable to give any legal security. My
father heard his reasons for believing that he could ultimately repay the money,
and from my Father's intuitive perception of character felt sure that he was to be
trusted. So he advanced this sum, which was a very large one for him while young,
and was after a time repaid.

I suppose that it was his sympathy which gave him unbounded power of winning
confidence, and as a consequence made him highly successful as a physician. He
began to practise before he was twentyone years old, and his fees during the first
year paid for the keep of two horses and a servant. On the following year his
practice was larger, and so continued for above sixty years, when he ceased to
attend on any one. His great success as a doctor was the more remarkable, as he
told me that he at first hated his profession so much that if he had been sure of the
smallest pittance, or if his father

[page] 30 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

had given him any choice, nothing should have induced him to follow it. To the end
of his life, the thought of an operation almost sickened him, and he could scarcely
endure to see a person bled--a horror which he has transmitted to me--and I
remember the horror which I felt as a schoolboy in reading about Pliny (I think)
bleeding to death in a warm bath. My Father told me two odd stories about
bleeding: one was that as a very young man he became a Freemason. A friend of
his who was a Freemason and who pretended not to know about his strong feeling
with respect to blood, remarked casually to him as they walked to the meeting, "I
suppose that you do not care about losing a few drops of blood?" It seems that
when he was received as a member, his eyes were bandaged and his coatsleeves
turned up. Whether any such ceremony is now performed I know not, but my  Father mentioned the case as an excellent instance of the power of imagination, for
  he distinctly felt the blood trickling down his arm, and could hardly believe his own
  eyes, when he afterwards could not find the smallest prick on his arm.

  A great slaughtering butcher from London once consulted my grandfather, when
  another man very ill was brought in, and my grandfather wished to have him
  instantly bled by the accompanying apothecary. The butcher was asked to hold the
  patient's arm, but he made some excuse and left the room. Afterwards he
  explained to my grandfather that although he believed that he had killed with his
  own hands more animals than any other man in London, yet absurd as it might seem he assuredly should have fainted
  if he had seen the patient bled.

Owing to my father's power of winning confidence, many patients, especially ladies,
consulted him when suffering from any misery, as a sort of Father Confessor. He
told me that they always began by complaining in a vague manner about their
health, and by practice he soon guessed what was really the matter. He then
suggested that they had been suffering in their minds, and now they would pour
out their troubles, and he heard nothing more about the body. Family quarrels were
a common subject. When gentlemen complained to him about their wives, and the
quarrel seemed serious, my Father advised them to act in the following manner
and his advice always succeeded if the gentleman followed it to the letter, which
was not always the case. The husband was to say to the wife that he was very
sorry that they could not live happily together,--that he felt sure that she would be
happier if separated from him--that he did not blame her in the least (this was the
point on which the man oftenest failed)--that he would not blame her to any of her
relations or friends and lastly that he would settle on her as large a provision as he
could afford. She was then asked to deliberate on this proposal. As no fault had
been found, her temper was unruffled, and she soon felt what an awkward position
she would be in, with no accusation to rebut, and with her husband and not herself
proposing a separation. Invariably the lady begged her husband not to think of

T.A.C.D. C

[page] 32 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

separation, and usually behaved much better ever afterwards.

Owing to my father's skill in winning confidence he received many strange
confessions of misery and guilt. He often remarked how many miserable wives he
had known. In several instances husbands and wives had gone on pretty well
together for between twenty and thirty years, and then hated each other bitterly:
this he attributed to their having lost a common bond in their young children
having grown up.

But the most remarkable power which my father possessed was that of reading the
characters, and even the thoughts of those whom he saw even for a short time. We
had many instances of this power, some of which seemed almost supernatural. It
saved my father from ever making (with one exception, and the character of this
man was soon discovered) an unworthy friend. A strange clergyman came to
Shrewsbury, and seemed to be a rich man everybody called on him, and he was
invited to many houses. My father called, and on his return home told my sisters
on no account to invite him or his family to our house for he felt sure that the man
was not to be trusted. After a few months he suddenly bolted, being heavily in
debt, and was found out to be little better than an habitual swindler. Here is a case
of trustfulness which not many men would have ventured on. An Irish gentleman, a
complete stranger, called on my father one day, and said that he had lost his purse,
and that it would be a serious inconvenience to him to wait in Shrewsbury until he
could


  [page] 33 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

receive a remittance from Ireland. He then asked my father to lend him £20, which
was immediately done, as my father felt certain that the story was a true one. As
soon as a letter could arrive from Ireland, one came with the most profuse thanks,
and enclosing, as he said, a £20 Bank of England note but no note was enclosed. I
asked my father whether this did not stagger him, but he answered "not in the
least." On the next day another letter came with many apologies for having
forgotten (like a true Irishman) to put the note into his letter of the day before.

A connection1 of my Father's consulted him about his son who was strangely idle
and would settle to no work. My Father said "I believe that the foolish young man
thinks that I shall bequeath him a large sum of money. Tell him that I have
declared to you that I shall not leave him a penny." The Father of the youth owned
with shame that this preposterous idea had taken possession of his son's mind
and he asked my Father how he could possibly have discovered it, but my Father
said he did not in the least know.

The Earl of -- brought his nephew, who was insane but quite gentle, to my father
and the young man's insanity led him to accuse himself of all the crimes under
heaven. When my Father afterwards talked about the case with the uncle, he said,
"I am sure that your nephew is really guilty of...a heinous crime." Whereupon the
Earl of -- exclaimed, "Good God, Dr. Darwin,

1 Robert's soninlaw, Henry Parker, who had married his eldest daughter, Marianne, in 1824.--N.B.

[page] 34 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

who told you we thought that no human being knew the fact except ourselves!"
My Father told me the story many years after the event, and I asked him how he
distinguished the true from the false selfaccusations and it was very characteristic
of my Father that he said he could not explain how it was.

The following story shows what good guesses my Father could make. Lord
Sherburn,1 afterwards the first Marquis of Lansdowne, was famous (as Macaulay
somewhere remarks) for his knowledge of the affairs of Europe, on which he
greatly prided himself. He consulted my Father medically, and afterwards
harangued him on the state of Holland. My father had studied medicine at Leyden,
and one day went a long walk into the country with a friend, who took him to the
house of a clergyman (we will say the Rev. Mr A--, for I have forgotten his name),
who had married an Englishwoman. My father was very hungry, and there was little
for luncheon except cheese, which he could never eat. The old lady was surprised
and grieved at this, and assured my father that it was an excellent cheese, and had
been sent her from Bowood, the seat of Lord Sherburn. My father wondered why a
cheese should be sent her from Bowood, but thought nothing more about it until it
flashed across his mind many years afterwards, whilst Lord Sherburn was talking
about Holland. So he answered, "I should think from what I saw of the Rev. Mr A--,
that he was a very able man and well acquainted with the state of Holland." My
father saw

  1 Read "Shelburne," consistently mis spelt whenever mentioned.--N. B.

  [page] 35 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  that the Earl, who immediately changed the conversation, was much startled. On
  the next morning my father received a note from the Earl, saying that he had
  delayed starting on his journey, and wished particularly to see my father. When he
  called, the Earl said, "Dr. Darwin, it is of the utmost importance to me and to the
  Rev. Mr A-- to learn how you have discovered that he is the source of my
  information about Holland." So my father had to explain the state of the case, and
  he supposed that Lord Sherburn was much struck with his diplomatic skill in
  guessing, for during many years afterwards he received many kind messages from
  him through various friends. I think that he must have told the story to his
  children for Sir C. Lyell asked me many years ago why the Marquis of Lansdowne
  (the son or grandson of the first marquis) felt so much interest about me, whom he
  had never seen, and my family. When forty new members (the forty thieves as
  they were then called) were added to the Athenæum Club, there was much
  canvassing to be one of them and without my having asked any one, Lord
  Lansdowne proposed me and got me elected. If I am right in my supposition, it
  was a queer concatenation of events that my father not eating cheese halfa
  century before in Holland led to my election as a member of the Athenæum.

  Early in life my father occasionally wrote down a short account of some curious
  event and conversation, which are enclosed in a separate envelope.

  The sharpness of his observation led him to predict

  [page] 36 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  with remarkable skill the course of any illness, and he suggested endless small
  details of relief. I was told that a young Doctor in Shrewsbury, who disliked my
  father, used to say that he was wholly unscientific, but owned that his power of
  predicting the end of an illness was unparalleled. Formerly when he thought that I
  should be a doctor, he talked much to me about his patients. In the old days the
  practice of bleeding largely was universal, but my father maintained that far more
  evil was thus caused than good done and he advised me if ever I was myself ill
  not to allow any doctor to take from me more than an extremely small quantity of
  blood. Long before typhoid fever was recognised as distinct, my father told me that
  two utterly distinct kinds of illness were confounded under the name of typhus
  fever. He was vehement against drinking, and was convinced of both the direct and
  inherited evil effects of alcohol when habitually taken even in moderate quantity in
  a very large majority of cases.1 But he admitted and advanced instances of certain
  persons, who could drink largely during their whole lives without apparently
  suffering any evil effects and he believed that he could often beforehand tell who
  would thus not suffer. He himself never drank a drop of any alcoholic fluid. This
  remark reminds me of a case showing how a witness under the most favourable
  circumstances may be wholly mistaken. A gentlemanfarmer was strongly urged by
  my father not to drink, and was encouraged by being told that he


  1 See Note 1. p. 223 This letter from Robert's father, Dr. Erasmus Darwin, discusses the question of
  drink.--N. B.

  [page] 37 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

himself never touched any spirituous liquor. Whereupon the gentleman said,
"Come, come, Doctor, that won't do--though it is very kind of you to say so for my
sake--for I know that you take a very large glass of hot gin and water every
evening after your dinner."1 So my father asked him how he knew this. The man
answered, "My cook was your kitchenmaid for two or three years, and she saw the
butler every day prepare and take to you the gin and water." The explanation was
that my father had the odd habit of drinking hot water in a very tall and large glass
after his dinner and the butler used first to put some cold water in the glass,
which the girl mistook for gin, and then filled it up with boiling water from the
kitchen boiler.

My father used to tell me many little things which he had found useful in his
medical practice. Thus ladies often cried much while telling him their troubles, and
thus caused much loss of his precious time. He soon found that begging them to
command and restrain themselves, always made them weep the more, so that
afterwards he always encouraged them to go on crying, saying that this would
relieve them more than anything else, with the invariable result that they soon
ceased to cry, and he could hear what they had to say and give his advice. When
patients who were very ill, craved for some strange and unnatural food, my father
asked them what had put such an idea into their heads: if they answered that they
did not know, he would allow them to try the food, and

1 This belief still survives, and was mentioned to my brother in 1884 by an old inhabitant of
Shrewsbury.--F. D.

[page] 38 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

often with success, as he trusted to their having a kind of instinctive desire but if
they answered that they had heard that the food in question had done good to
someone else, he firmly refused his assent.

He gave one day an odd little specimen of human nature. When a very young man
he was called in to consult with the family physician in the case of a gentleman of
much distinction in Shropshire. The old doctor told the wife that the illness was of
such a nature that it must end fatally. My father took a different view and
maintained that the gentleman would recover: he was proved quite wrong in all
respects, (I think by autopsy) and he owned his error. He was then convinced that
he should never again be consulted by this family but after a few months the
widow sent for him, having dismissed the old family doctor. My father was so much
surprised at this, that he asked a friend of the widow to find out why he was again
consulted. The widow answered her friend, that "she would never again see that
odious old doctor who said from the first that her husband would die, while Dr.
Darwin always maintained that he would recover!" In another case my father told a
lady that her husband would certainly die. Some months afterwards he saw the
  widow who was a very sensible woman, and she said, "You are a very young man,
  and allow me to advise you always to give, as long as you possibly can, hope to
  any near relation nursing a patient. You made me despair, and from that moment I
  lost strength." My father said that he had often since seen the paramount
  importance, for the sake of the

[page] 39 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

patient, of keeping up the hope and with it the strength of the nurse in charge.
This he sometimes found it difficult to do compatibly with truth. One old
gentleman, however, Mr. Pemberton, caused him no such perplexity. He was sent
for by Mr. Pemberton, who said, "From all that I have seen and heard of you I
believe you are the sort of man who will speak the truth, and if I ask you will tell
me when I am dying. Now I much desire that you should attend me, if you will
promise, whatever I may say, always to declare that I am not going to die." My
father acquiesced on this understanding that his words should in fact have no
meaning.

My father possessed an extraordinary memory, especially for dates, so that he
knew, when he was very old the day of the birth, marriage, and death of a
multitude of persons in Shropshire and he once told me that this power annoyed
him for if he once heard a date he could not forget it and thus the deaths of
many friends were often recalled to his mind. Owing to his strong memory he knew
an extraordinary number of curious stories, which he liked to tell, as he was a
great talker. He was generally in high spirits, and laughed and joked with every one
--often with his servants--with the utmost freedom yet he had the art of making
every one obey him to the letter. Many persons were much afraid of him. I
remember my father telling us one day with a laugh, that several persons had
asked him whether Miss Piggott (a grand old lady in Shropshire), had called on
him, so that at last he enquired why they asked

[page] 40 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

him and was told that Miss Piggott, whom my father had somehow mortally
offended, was telling everybody that she would call and tell 'that fat old doctor very
plainly what she thought of him.' She had already called, but her courage had
failed, and no one could have been more courteous and friendly. As a boy, I went
to stay at the house of Major B--, whose wife was insane and the poor creature,
as soon as she saw me, was in the most abject state of terror that I ever saw,
weeping bitterly and asking me over and over again, "Is your father coming?" but
was soon pacified. On my return home, I asked my father why she was so
frightened, and he answered he [was] very glad to hear it, as he had frightened
her on purpose, feeling sure that she could be kept in safety and much happier
without any restraint, if her husband could influence her, whenever she became at
all violent, by proposing to send for Dr. Darwin and these words succeeded
perfectly during the rest of her long life.

My father was very sensitive so that many small events annoyed or pained him
much. I once asked him, when he was old and could not walk, why he did not drive

  out for exercise and he answered, "Every road out of Shrewsbury is associated in
  my mind with some painful event." Yet he was generally in high spirits. He was
  easily made very angry, but as his kindness was unbounded, he was widely and
  deeply loved.

He was a cautious and good man of business, so that he hardly ever lost money by
any investment, and left to his children a very large property. I remember a story,

[page] 41 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

showing how easily utterly false beliefs originate and spread. Mr E--, a squire of
one of the oldest families in Shropshire, and head partner in a Bank, committed
suicide. My father was sent for as a matter of form, and found him dead. I may
mention by the way, to show how matters were managed in those old days, that
because Mr E-- was a rather great man and universally respected, no inquest was
held over his body. My father, in returning home, thought it proper to call at the
Bank (where he had an account) to tell the managing partner of the event, as it
was not improbable it would cause a run on the bank. Well the story was spread far
and wide, that my father went into the bank, drew out all his money, left the bank,
came back again, and said, "I may just tell you that Mr E-- has killed himself," and
then departed. It seems that it was then a common belief that money withdrawn
from a bank was not safe, until the person had passed out through the door of the
bank. My father did not hear this story till some little time afterwards, when the
managing partner said that he had departed from his invariable rule of never
allowing any one to see the account of another man, by having shown the ledger
with my father's account to several persons, as this proved that my father had not
drawn out a penny on that day. It would have been dishonourable in my father to
have used his professional knowledge for his private advantage. Nevertheless the
supposed act was greatly admired by some persons and many years afterwards, a
gentleman remarked, "Ah, Doctor, what a splendid man of business you were in

[page] 42 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

so cleverly getting all your money safe out of that bank."

My father's mind was not scientific, and he did not try to generalise his knowledge
under general laws yet he formed a theory for almost everything which occurred. I
do not think that I gained much from him intellectually but his example ought to
have been of much moral service to all his children. One of his golden rules (a hard
one to follow) was, "Never become the friend of any one whom you cannot
respect."

With respect to my Father's father, the author of theBotanic Garden etc., I have put
together all the facts which I could collect in his published Life.1

Having said this much about my Father, I will add a few words about my brother
and sisters.

  My brother Erasmus possessed a remarkably clear mind, with extensive and 
  diversified tastes and knowledge in literature, art, and even in science. For a short
  time he collected and dried plants, and during a somewhat longer time
  experimented in chemistry. He was extremely agreeable, and his wit often
  reminded me of that in the letters and works of Charles Lamb. He was very kind
  hearted but his health from his boyhood had been weak, and as a consequence he
  failed in energy. His spirits were not high, sometimes low, more especially during
  early and middle manhood. He read much, even whilst a boy, and at school
  encouraged me to read, lending me books. Our minds and tastes were, however, so
  different that I do not think that I owe much to him

[page] 43 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

intellectually--nor to my four sisters, who possessed very different characters, and
some of them had strongly marked characters. All were extremely kind and
affectionate towards me during their whole lives. I am inclined to agree with
Francis Galton in believing that education and environment produce only a small
effect on the mind of any one, and that most of our qualities are innate.

The above sketch of my brother's character was written before that which was
published in Carlyle's Remembrances, and which appears to me to have little truth
and no merit.

Looking back as well as I can at my character during my school life, the only
qualities which at this period promised well for the future, were, that I had strong
and diversified tastes, much zeal for whatever interested me, and a keen pleasure
in understanding any complex subject or thing. I was taught Euclid by a private
tutor, and I distinctly remember the intense satisfaction which the clear geometrical
proofs gave me. I remember with equal distinctness the delight which my uncle
gave me (the father of Francis Galton) by explaining the principle of the vernier of
a barometer. With respect to diversified tastes, independently of science, I was
fond of reading various books, and I used to sit for hours reading the historical
plays of Shakespeare, generally in an old window in the thick walls of the school. I
read also other poetry, such as the recently published poems of Byron, Scott, and
Thomson's Seasons. I mention this

[page] 44 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

because later in life I wholly lost, to my great regret, all pleasure from poetry of
any kind, including Shakespeare. In connection with pleasure from poetry I may
add that in 1822 a vivid delight in scenery was first awakened in my mind, during a
riding tour on the borders of Wales, and which has lasted longer than any other
aesthetic pleasure.

Early in my schooldays a boy had a copy of theWonders of the World, which I
often read and disputed with other boys about the veracity of some of the
statements and I believe this book first gave me a wish to travel in remote
countries, which was ultimately fulfilled by the voyage of the Beagle. In the latter
  part of my school life I became passionately fond of shooting, and I do not believe
  that anyone could have shown more zeal for the most holy cause than I did for
  shooting birds. How well I remember killing my first snipe, and my excitement was
  so great that I had much difficulty in reloading my gun from the trembling of my
  hands. This taste long continued and I became a very good shot. When at
  Cambridge I used to practise throwing up my gun to my shoulder before a looking
  glass to see that I threw it up straight. Another and better plan was to get a friend
  to wave about a lighted candle, and then to fire at it with a cap on the nipple, and
  if the aim was accurate the little puff of air would blow out the candle. The
  explosion of the cap caused a sharp crack, and I was told that the Tutor of the
  College remarked, "What an extraordinary thing it is, Mr Darwin seems to spend
  hours in cracking a horsewhip in his

[page] 45 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

room, for I often hear the crack when I pass under his windows."

I had many friends amongst the schoolboys, whom I loved dearly, and I think that
my disposition was then very affectionate. Some of these boys were rather clever,
but I may add on the principle of "noscitur a socio" that not one of them ever
became in the least distinguished.

With respect to science, I continued collecting minerals with much zeal, but quite
unscientifically--all that I cared for was a new named mineral, and I hardly
attempted to classify them. I must have observed insects with some little care, for
when ten years old (1819) I went for three weeks to Plas Edwards on the seacoast
in Wales, I was very much interested and surprised at seeing a large black and
scarlet Hemipterous insect, many moths (Zygæna) and a Cicindela, which are not
found in Shropshire. I almost made up my mind to begin collecting all the insects
which I could find dead, for on consulting my sister, I concluded that it was not
right to kill insects for the sake of making a collection. From reading
White's Selborne I took much pleasure in watching the habits of birds, and even
made notes on the subject. In my simplicity I remember wondering why every
gentleman did not become an ornithologist.

Towards the close of my school life, my brother worked hard at chemistry and
made a fair laboratory with proper apparatus in the toolhouse in the garden, and I
was allowed to aid him as a servant in most of his experiments. He made all the
gases and many com

[page] 46 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

pounds, and I read with care several books on chemistry, such as Henry and
Parkes' Chemical Catechism. The subject interested me greatly, and we often used
to go on working till rather late at night. This was the best part of my education at
school, for it showed me practically the meaning of experimental science. The fact
that we worked at chemistry somehow got known at school, and as it was an
unprecedented fact, I was nicknamed "Gas." I was also once publicly rebuked by
the headmaster, Dr. Butler, for thus wasting my time over such useless subjects

  and he called me very unjustly a "poco curante,"1 and as I did not understand what
  he meant it seemed to me a fearful reproach.

As I was doing no good at school, my father wisely took me away at a rather
earlier age than usual, and sent me (October 1825) to Edinburgh University1with
my brother, where I stayed for two years or sessions. My brother was completing
his medical studies, though I do not believe he ever really intended to practise, and
I was sent there to commence them. But soon after this period I became convinced
from various small circumstances that my father would leave me property enough
to subsist on with some comfort, though I never imagined that I should be so rich
a man as I am but my belief was sufficient to check any strenuous effort to learn
medicine.

The instruction at Edinburgh was altogether by

1 He lodged at Mrs. Mackay's, 11 Lothian Street. What little the records of Edinburgh University can
reveal has been published in the Edinburgh Weekly Dispatch, May 22, 1888 and in the St. James's
Gazette, February 16, 1888. From the latter journal it appears that he and his brother Erasmus
made more use of the library than was usual among the students of their time.--F. D.

1 A "poco curane" is interested in small things, while being indifferent to important things.

[page] 47 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Lectures, and these were intolerably dull, with the exception of those on chemistry
by Hope1 but to my mind there are no advantages and many disadvantages in
lectures compared with reading. Dr. Duncan's lectures on Materia Medica at 8
o'clock on a winter's morning are something fearful to remember. Dr. Munro made
his lectures on human anatomy as dull, as he was himself, and the subject
disgusted me. It has proved one of the greatest evils in my life that I was not
urged to practice dissection, for I should soon have got over my disgust and the
practice would have been invaluable for all my future work. This has been an
irremediable evil, as well as my incapacity to draw. I also attended regularly the
clinical wards in the Hospital. Some of the cases distressed me a good deal, and I
still have vivid pictures before me of some of them but I was not so foolish as to
allow this to lessen my attendance. I cannot understand why this part of my
medical course did not interest me in a greater degree for during the summer
before coming to Edinburgh I began attending some of the poor people, chiefly
children and women in Shrewsbury: I wrote down as full an account as I could of
the cases with all the symptoms, and read them aloud to my father, who suggested
further enquiries, and advised me what medicines to give, which I made up myself.
At one time I had at least a dozen patients, and I felt a keen interest in the
work.1 My father, who was by far the

  1 Thomas Charles Hope, 17661844, Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh, 17991843.--N. B.             25/145
  2 I have heard him call to mind the pride he felt at the results of the successful treatment of a
  whole family with tartar emetic.--F. D.

  T.A.C.D. D

  [page] 48 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  best judge of character whom I ever knew, declared that I should make a
  successful physician,--meaning by this, one who got many patients. He maintained
  that the chief element of success was exciting confidence but what he saw in me
  which convinced him that I should create confidence I know not. I also attended on
  two occasions the operating theatre in the hospital at Edinburgh, and saw two very
  bad operations, one on a child, but I rushed away before they were completed. Nor
  did I ever attend again, for hardly any inducement would have been strong enough
  to make me do so this being long before the blessed days of chloroform. The two
  cases fairly haunted me for many a long year.

  My Brother staid only one year at the University, so that during the second year I
  was left to my own resources and this was an advantage, for I became well
  acquainted with several young men fond of natural science. One of these was
  Ainsworth,1 who afterwards published his travels in Assyria: he was a
  Wernerian2 geologist and knew a little about many subjects, but was superficial
  and very glib with his tongue. Dr. Coldstream3 was a very different young man,
  prim, formal, highly religious and most kindhearted: he afterwards published
  some good zoological articles. A third young

  1 William Francis Ainsworth, 18071896, L.R.C.S., Edinburgh 1827. Studied geology in London, Paris
  and Brussels. Surgeon and geologist to expedition to Euphrates, 1835 led expedition to Christians
  of Chaldea, 183840.--N. B.

  2 Abraham Gottlob Werner, 17501817, geologist adherent of the Neptunian theory--that all rocks
  were deposited as precipitates from water.--N. B.

  3 Dr. Coldstream died September 17, 1863 see Crown 16mo. Book Tract, No. 19, of the Religious
  Tract Society (no date).--F. D. This footnote is given In The Thinkers Library Edition, not inLife and
  Letters.--N. B.

  [page] 49 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  man was Hardie, who would I think have made a good botanist, but died early in
  India. Lastly, Dr. Grant,1 my senior by several years, but how I became acquainted
  with him I cannot remember: he published some firstrate zoological papers, but
  after coming to London as Professor in University College, he did nothing more in
  science--a fact which has always been inexplicable to me. I knew him well he was
  dry and formal in manner, but with much enthusiasm beneath this outer crust. He
  one day, when we were walking together burst forth in high admiration of Lamarck
  and his views on evolution. I listened in silent astonishment, and as far as I can
  judge, without any effect on my mind. I had previously read the Zoönomia of my
  grandfather, in which similar views are maintained, but without producing any
  effect on me. Nevertheless it is probable that the hearing rather early in life such
  views maintained and praised may have favoured my upholding them under a
  different form in my Origin of Species. At this time I admired greatly
  the Zoönomia but on reading it a second time after an interval of ten or fifteen
  years, I was much disappointed, the proportion of speculation being so large to the
  facts given.2

Drs. Grant and Coldstream attended much to marine Zoology, and I often
accompanied the former to collect

1 Robert Edmund Grant, 17931874, Professor of comparative anatomy and zoology at London
University 18271874 F.R.S. 1836. T. H. Huxley writes of Grant thus:--"Within the ranks of the
biologists at that time (18518) I met nobody, except Dr. Grant, of University College who had a
word to say for Evolution and his advocacy was not calculated to advance the cause." Life and
Letters, Vol. II, p. 188.--N. B.

2 See Appendix Part i, on Dr. Erasmus Darwin, p. 152.--N. B.

[page] 50 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

animals in the tidal pools, which I dissected as well as I could. I also became
friends with some of the Newhaven fishermen, and sometimes accompanied them
when they trawled for oysters, and thus got many specimens. But from not having
had any regular practice in dissection, and from possessing only a wretched
microscope my attempts were very poor. Nevertheless I made one interesting little
discovery, and read about the beginning of the year 1826 [actually 27 March 1827], a
short paper on the subject before the Plinian Socy. This was that the socalled ova
of Flustra had the power of independent movement by means of cilia, and were in
fact larvæ. In another short paper I showed that little globular bodies which had
been supposed to be the young state of Fucus loreus were the eggcases of the
wormlike Pontobdella muricata.

The Plinian Society1 was encouraged and I believe founded by Professor
Jameson:2 it consisted of students and met in an underground room in the
University for the sake of reading papers on natural science and discussing them. I
used regularly to attend and the meetings had a good effect on me in stimulating
my zeal and giving me new congenial acquaintances. One evening a poor young
man got up and after stammering for a prodigious length of time, blushing
crimson, he at last slowly got out the words, "Mr. President, I have forgotten what I
was going to say" The poor fellow

1 The society was founded in 1823, and expired about 1848 (Edinburgh Weekly Dispatch, May 22,
1888).--F.D

2 Robert Jameson, 17741854, Regius professor of natural history and Keeper of the Museum at
Edinburgh 18041854. Founded the Wernerian Society, 1808.--N. B.

[page] 51 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

looked quite overwhelmed, and all the members were so surprised that no one
could think of a word to say to cover his confusion. The papers which were read to
our little society were not printed, so that I had not the satisfaction of seeing my
paper in print but I believe Dr. Grant noticed my small discovery in his excellent
memoir on Flustra.

I was also a member of the Royal Medical Society, and attended pretty regularly,  but as the subjects were exclusively medical I did not much care about them. Much
  rubbish was talked there, but there were some good speakers, of whom the best
  was the present Sir J. KayShuttleworth.1 Dr. Grant took me occasionally to the
  meetings of the Wernerian Society, where various papers on natural history were
  read, discussed, and afterwards published in the Transactions. I heard
  Audubon2 deliver there some interesting discourses on the habits of N. American
  birds, sneering somewhat unjustly at Waterton.3 By the way, a negro lived in
  Edinburgh, who had travelled with Waterton and gained his livelihood by stuffing
  birds, which he did excellently he gave me lessons for payment, and I used often
  to sit with him, for he was a very pleasant and intelligent man.

1 James Phillips KayShuttleworth, 1st Baronet, 18041877, M.D., Edinburgh, 1827 Assistant Poor
law Commissioner 1835 first Secretary of the Committee of Council of Education, 183949
member of scientific commissions, etc.--N. B.

2 John James Audubon, 17801851. Ornithologist and author ofThe Birds of America, and The
Quadrupeds of North America.--N. B.

3 Charles Waterton, 17821865. Naturalist and traveller, author of Wanderings in S. America.--N. B.

[page] 52 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

Mr. Leonard Horner1 also took me once to a meeting of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, where I saw Sir Walter Scott in the chair as President, and he
apologised to the meeting as not feeling fitted for such a position. I looked at him
and at the whole scene with some awe and reverence and I think it was owing to
this visit during my youth and to my having attended the Royal Medical Society,
that I felt the honour of being elected a few years ago an honorary member of both
these Societies, more than any other similar honour. If I had been told at that time
that I should one day have been thus honoured, I declare that I should have
thought it as ridiculous and improbable, as if I had been told that I should be
elected King of England.

During my second year in Edinburgh I attended Jameson's lectures on Geology and
Zoology, but they were incredibly dull. The sole effect they produced on me was
the determination never as long as I lived to read a book on Geology or in any way
to study the science. Yet I feel sure that I was prepared for a philosophical
treatment of the subject for an old Mr Cotton in Shropshire who knew a good deal
about rocks, had pointed out to me, two or three years previously a wellknown
large erratic boulder in the town of Shrewsbury, called the bellstone he told me
that there was no rock of the same kind nearer than Cumberland or Scotland, and
he solemnly assured me that the world would come to an end before anyone would
be able to explain how

1 Leonard Horner, 17851864. Geologist and educationalist, helped to organise London Institution,
1827, took active part in Factory Acts.--N. B.

[page] 53 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

this stone came where it now lay. This produced a deep impression on me and I


  meditated over this wonderful stone. So that I felt the keenest delight when I first
  read of the action of icebergs in transporting boulders, and I gloried in the progress
  of Geology. Equally striking is the fact that I, though now only sixtyseven years
  old, heard Professor Jameson, in a field lecture at Salisbury Craigs, discoursing on
  a trapdyke, with amygdaloidal margins and the strata indurated on each side, with
  volcanic rocks all around us, and say that it was a fissure filled with sediment from
  above, adding with a sneer that there were men who maintained that it had been
  injected from beneath in a molten condition. When I think of this lecture, I do not
  wonder that I determined never to attend to Geology.

From attending Jameson's lectures, I became acquainted with the curator of the
museum, Mr. Macgillivray,1 who afterwards published a large and excellent book on
the birds of Scotland. He had not much the appearance or manners of the
gentleman. I had much interesting naturalhistory talk with him, and he was very
kind to me. He gave me some rare shells, for I at that time collected marine
mollusca, but with no great zeal.

My summer vacations during these two years were wholly given up to
amusements, though I always had some book in hand, which I read with interest.
During the summer of 1826, I took a long walking tour with

1 William Macgillivray, 17961852. Conservator of the Royal College of Surgeons Museum,
Edinburgh, 183141. Professor of Natural History, Aberdeen, 1841. Author of A History of British
Birds.--N. B.

[page] 54 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

two friends with knapsacks on our backs through North Wales. We walked thirty
miles most days, including one day the ascent of Snowdon. I also went with my
sister Caroline a riding tour in North Wales, a servant with saddlebags carrying our
clothes. The autumns were devoted to shooting, chiefly at Mr. Owen's at
Woodhouse, and at my Uncle Jos's1, at Maer. My zeal was so great that I used to
place my shooting boots open by my bedside when I went to bed, so as not to
lose halfaminute in putting them on in the morning and on one occasion I
reached a distant part of the Maer estate on the 20th of August for blackgame
shooting, before I could see: I then toiled on with the gamekeeper the whole day
through thick heath and young Scotch firs. I kept an exact record of every bird
which I shot throughout the whole season. One day when shooting at Woodhouse
with Captain Owen, the eldest son and Major Hill, his cousin, afterwards Lord
Berwick, both of whom I liked very much, I thought myself shamefully used, for
every time after I had fired and thought that I had killed a bird, one of the two
acted as if loading his gun and cried out, "You must not count that bird, for I fired
at the same time," and the gamekeeper perceiving the joke, backed them up. After
some hours they told me the joke, but it was no joke to me for I had shot a large
number of birds, but did not know how many, and could not add them to my list,
which I used to do by making a knot in a piece of string tied to a buttonhole. This
my wicked friends had perceived.

  1 Josiah Wedgwood, the son of the founder of the Etruria Works.--F. D.                         

  [page] 55 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

How I did enjoy shooting, but I think that I must have been halfconsciously
ashamed of my zeal, for I tried to persuade myself that shooting was almost an
intellectual employment it required so much skill to judge where to find most
game and to hunt the dogs well.

One of my autumnal visits to Maer in 1827 was memorable from meeting there Sir
J. Mackintosh,1who was the best converser I ever listened to. I heard afterwards
with a glow of pride that he had said, "There is something in that young man that
interests me." This must have been chiefly due to his perceiving that I listened with
much interest to everything which he said, for I was as ignorant as a pig about his
subjects of history, politicks and moral philosophy. To hear of praise from an
eminent person, though no doubt apt or certain to excite vanity, is, I think, good
for a young man, as it helps to keep him in the right course.

My visits to Maer during these two and the three succeeding years were quite
delightful, independently of the autumnal shooting. Life there was perfectly free
the country was very pleasant for walking or riding and in the evening there was
much very agreeable conversation, not so personal as it generally is in large family
parties, together with music. In the summer the whole family used often to sit on
the steps of the old portico, with the flowergarden in front, and with the

1 Sir James Mackintosh, 17651832, philosopher and historian. Had studied medicine at Edinburgh.
He and Josiah Wedgwood of Maer married two of the Allen sisters, so there was connection by
marriage between the families.--N. B.

[page] 56 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

steep wooded bank, opposite the house, reflected in the lake, with here and there
a fish rising or a waterbird paddling about. Nothing has left a more vivid picture on
my mind than these evenings at Maer. I was also attached to and greatly revered
my Uncle Jos: he was silent and reserved so as to be a rather awful man but he
sometimes talked openly with me.1 He was the very type of an upright man with
the clearest judgment. I do not believe that any power on earth could have made
him swerve an inch from what he considered the right course. I used to apply to
him in my mind, the wellknown ode of Horace, now forgotten by me, in which the
words "nec vultus tyranni, &c.,"2 come in.

                       Cambridge, 18281831

AFTER HAVING spent two sessions in Edinburgh, my father perceived or he heard
from my sisters, that I did not like the thought of being a physician, so he
proposed that I should become a clergyman. He was very properly vehement
against my turning an idle sporting man, which then seemed my probable
destination. I asked for some

1 Sydney Smith was a frequent visitor at Maer, and Mrs. Litchfield quotes her mother's memory of a
speech of his:--"Wedgwood's an excellent man--it is a pity he hates his fr iends."  Emma Dar win,

Vol. I, p. 74.--N. B.


  2 Justum et tenacem propositi virum
  Non civium ardor prava jubentium,
  Non vultus instantis tyranni
  Mente quatit solida. F. D.

  [page] 57 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

time to consider, as from what little I had heard and thought on the subject I had
scruples about declaring my belief in all the dogmas of the Church of England
though otherwise I liked the thought of being a country clergyman. Accordingly I
read with carePearson on the Creed and a few other books on divinity and as I did
not then in the least doubt the strict and literal truth of every word in the Bible, I
soon persuaded myself that our Creed must be fully accepted. It never struck me
how illogical it was to say that I believed in what I could not understand and what
is in fact unintelligible. I might have said with entire truth that I had no wish to
dispute any dogma but I never was such a fool as to feel and say 'credo quia
incredibile'.

Considering how fiercely I have been attacked by the orthodox it seems ludicrous
that I once intended to be a clergyman. Nor was this intention and my father's wish
ever formally given up, but died a natural death when on leaving Cambridge I
joined the Beagle as Naturalist. If the phrenologists are to be trusted, I was well
fitted in one respect to be a clergyman. A few years ago the Secretaries of a
German psychological society asked me earnestly by letter for a photograph of
myself and some time afterwards I received the proceedings of one of the
meetings in which it seemed that the shape of my head had been the subject of a
public discussion, and one of the speakers declared that I had the bump of
Reverence developed enough for ten Priests.

As it was decided that I should be a clergyman, it was necessary that I should go
to one of the English

[page] 58 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

universities and take a degree but as I had never opened a classical book since
leaving school, I found to my dismay that in the two intervening years I had
actually forgotten, incredible as it may appear, almost everything which I had
learnt even to some few of the Greek letters. I did not therefore proceed to
Cambridge at the usual time in October, but worked with a private tutor in
Shrewsbury and went to Cambridge after the Christmas vacation, early in 1828. I
soon recovered my school standard of knowledge, and could translate easy Greek
books, such as Homer and the Greek Testament with moderate facility.

During the three years which I spent at Cambridge my time was wasted, as far as

the academical studies were concerned, as completely as at Edinburgh and at

school. I attempted mathematics, and even went during the summer of 1828 with

a private tutor (a very dull man) to Barmouth, but I got on very slowly. The work

was repugnant to me, chiefly from my not being able to see any meaning in the

early steps in algebra. This impatience was very foolish, and in after years I have

deeply regretted that I did not proceed far enough at least to understand
  something of the great leading principles of mathematics for men thus endowed
  seem to have an extra sense. But I do not believe that I should ever have
  succeeded beyond a very low grade. With respect to Classics I did nothing except
  attend a few compulsory college lectures, and the attendance was almost nominal.
  In my second year I had to work for a month or two to pass the Little Go, which I
  did easily. Again in my last

[page] 59 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

year I worked with some earnestness for my final degree of B.A., and brushed up
my Classics together with a little Algebra and Euclid, which latter gave me much
pleasure, as it did whilst at school. In order to pass the B.A. examination, it was,
also, necessary to get up Paley's Evidences of Christianity, and his Moral
Philosophy. This was done in a thorough manner, and I am convinced that I could
have written out the whole of the Evidences with perfect correctness, but not of
course in the clear language of Paley. The logic of this book and as I may add of
his Natural Theologygave me as much delight as did Euclid. The careful study of
these works, without attempting to learn any part by rote, was the only part of the
Academical Course which, as I then felt and as I still believe, was of the least use
to me in the education of my mind. I did not at that time trouble myself about
Paley's premises and taking these on trust I was charmed and convinced by the
long line of argumentation. By answering well the examination questions in Paley,
by doing Euclid well, and by not failing miserably in Classics, I gained a good place
among the  , or crowd of men who do not go in for honours. Oddly enough

I cannot remember how high I stood, and my memory fluctuates between the fifth,
tenth, or twelfth name on the list.1

Public lectures on several branches were given in the University, attendance being
quite voluntary but I was so sickened with lectures at Edinburgh that I did not

1 Tenth in the list of January 1831.--F. D.

[page] 60 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

even attend Sedgwick's1 eloquent and interesting lectures. Had I done so I should
probably have become a geologist earlier than I did. I attended, however,
Henslow's2 lectures on Botany, and liked them much for their extreme clearness,
and the admirable illustrations but I did not study botany. Henslow used to take
his pupils, including several of the older members of the University, field
excursions, on foot, or in coaches to distant places, or in a barge down the river,
and lectured on the rarer plants or animals which were observed. These excursions
were delightful.

Although as we shall presently see there were some redeeming features in my life

at Cambridge, my time was sadly wasted there and worse than wasted. From my

passion for shooting and for hunting and when this failed, for riding across country

I got into a sporting set, including some dissipated lowminded young men. We

used often to dine together in the evening, though these dinners often included

men of a higher stamp, and we sometimes drank too much, with jolly singing and
  playing at cards afterwards. I know that I ought to feel ashamed of days and
  evenings thus spent, but as some of my friends were very pleasant and we were all
  in the highest spirits, I cannot help looking back to these times with much
  pleasure.3

1 Adam Sedgwick, 17851873. Woodwardian professor of geology, Cambridge, 1818. F.R.S., 1830.--
N. B.

2 John Stevens Henslow, 17961861. Professor of botany, Cambridge, 182761. He helped to obtain
for Darwin the post of naturalist on the Beagle, and Darwin always held him in very high esteem.--
N. B.

3 I gather from some of my father's contemporaries that he has exaggerated the Bacchanalian
nature of these parties.--F. D.

[page] 61 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

But I am glad to think that I had many other friends of a widely different nature. I
was very intimate with Whitley1, who was afterwards Senior Wrangler, and we used
continually to take long walks together. He inoculated me with a taste for pictures
and good engravings, of which I bought some. I frequently went to the Fitzwilliam
Gallery, and my taste must have been fairly good, for I certainly admired the best
pictures, which I discussed with the old curator. I read also with much interest Sir
J. Reynolds' book. This taste, though not natural to me, lasted for several years
and many of the pictures in the National Gallery in London gave me much
pleasure that of Sebastian del Piombo exciting in me a sense of sublimity.

I also got into a musical set, I believe by means of my warmhearted friend
Herbert,2 who took a high wrangler's degree. From associating with these men and
hearing them play, I acquired a strong taste for music, and used very often to time
my walks so as to hear on week days the anthem in King's College Chapel. This
gave me intense pleasure, so that my backbone would sometimes shiver. I am sure
that there was no affectation or mere imitation in this taste, for I used generally to
go by myself to King's College, and I sometimes hired the chorister boys to sing in
my rooms. Nevertheless I am so utterly destitute of an ear, that I cannot perceive
a discord, or keep time and hum a tune correctly and it is

1 Rev. C. Whitley, Hon. Canon of Durham, formerly Reader in Natural Philosophy in Durham
University.--F. D.

2 The late John Maurice Herbert, County Court Judge of Cardiff and the Monmouth Circuit.--F. D.

[page] 62 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

a mystery how I could possibly have derived pleasure from music.

My musical friends soon perceived my state, and sometimes amused themselves by
making me pass an examination, which consisted in ascertaining how many tunes I
could recognise, when they were played rather more quickly or slowly than usual.
'God save the King' when thus played was a sore puzzle. There was another man
with almost as bad an ear as I had, and strange to say he played a little on the

  flute. Once I had the triumph of beating him in one of our musical examinations.

But no pursuit at Cambridge was followed with nearly so much eagerness or gave
me so much pleasure as collecting beetles. It was the mere passion for collecting,
for I did not dissect them and rarely compared their external characters with
published descriptions, but got them named anyhow. I will give a proof of my zeal:
one day, on tearing off some old bark, I saw two rare beetles and seized one in
each hand then I saw a third and new kind, which I could not bear to lose, so that
I popped the one which I held in my right hand into my mouth. Alas it ejected
some intensely acrid fluid, which burnt my tongue so that I was forced to spit the
beetle out, which was lost, as well as the third one.

I was very successful in collecting and invented two new methods I employed a
labourer to scrape during the winter, moss off old trees and place [it] in a large
bag, and likewise to collect the rubbish at the bottom

[page] 63 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

of the barges in which reeds are brought from the fens, and thus I got some very
rare species. No poet ever felt more delight at seeing his first poem published than
I did at seeing in Stephen'sIllustrations of British Insects the magic words,
"captured by C. Darwin, Esq." I was introduced to entomology by my second
cousin, W. Darwin Fox, a clever and most pleasant man, who was then at Christ's
College, and with whom I became extremely intimate. Afterwards I became well
acquainted with and went out collecting, with Albert Way1 of Trinity, who in after
years became a wellknown archæologist also with H. Thompson,2 of the same
College, afterwards a leading agriculturist, chairman of a great Railway, and
Member of Parliament. It seems therefore that a taste for collecting beetles is some
indication of future success in life!

I am surprised what an indelible impression many of the beetles which I caught at
Cambridge have left on my mind. I can remember the exact appearance of certain
posts, old trees and banks where I made a good capture. The pretty Panagæus
cruxmajor was a treasure in those days, and here at Down I saw a beetle running
across a walk, and on picking it up instantly perceived that it differed slightly
from P. cruxmajor, and it turned out to be P.quadripunctatus, which is only a
variety or closely allied species, differing from it very slightly in outline. I had never
seen in those old days Licinus alive, which to an uneducated eye hardly differs from

1 Albert Way, 180574. Antiquarian, traveller and editor ofPromptorium Parvulorum, 184365.--N. B.
2 Afterwards Sir H. Thompson, first baronet.--F. D.

T.A.C.D. E

[page] 64 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

many other black Carabidous beetles but my sons found here a specimen and I
instantly recognised that it was new to me yet I had not looked at a British beetle
  for the last twenty years.

I have not as yet mentioned a circumstance which influenced my whole career
more than any other. This was my friendship with Prof. Henslow. Before coming up
to Cambridge, I had heard of him from my brother as a man who knew every
branch of science, and I was accordingly prepared to reverence him. He kept open
house once every week,1 where all undergraduates and several older members of
the University, who were attached to science, used to meet in the evening. I soon
got, through Fox, an invitation, and went there regularly. Before long I became well
acquainted with Henslow, and during the latter half of my time at Cambridge took
long walks with him on most days so that I was called by some of the dons "the
man who walks with Henslow" and in the evening I was very often asked to join
his family dinner. His knowledge was great in botany, entomology, chemistry,
mineralogy, and geology. His strongest taste was to draw conclusions from long
continued minute observations. His judgment was excellent, and his whole mind
wellbalanced but I do not suppose that anyone would say that he possessed
much original genius.

He was deeply religious, and so orthodox, that he

1 The Cambridge Ray Club, which in 1887 attained its fiftieth anniversary, is the direct descendant
of these meetings, having been founded to fill the blank caused by the discontinuance, in 1836, of
Henslow's Friday evenings. See Professor Babington's pamphlet, The Cambridge Ray Club, 1887.--F.
D.

[page] 65 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

told me one day, he should be grieved if a single word of the Thirtynine Articles
were altered. His moral qualities were in every way admirable. He was free from
every tinge of vanity or other petty feeling and I never saw a man who thought so
little about himself or his own concerns. His temper was imperturbably good, with
the most winning and courteous manners yet, as I have seen, he could be roused
by any bad action to the warmest indignation and prompt action. I once saw in his
company in the streets of Cambridge almost as horrid a scene, as could have been
witnessed during the French Revolution. Two bodysnatchers had been arrested
and whilst being taken to prison had been torn from the constable by a crowd of
the roughest men, who dragged them by their legs along the muddy and stony
road. They were covered from head to foot with mud and their faces were bleeding
either from having been kicked or from the stones they looked like corpses, but
the crowd was so dense that I got only a few momentary glimpses of the wretched
creatures. Never in my life have I seen such wrath painted on a man's face, as was
shown by Henslow at this horrid scene. He tried repeatedly to penetrate the mob
but it was simply impossible. He then rushed away to the mayor, telling me not to
follow him, to get more policemen. I forget the issue, except that the two were got
into the prison before being killed.

Henslow's benevolence was unbounded, as he proved by his many excellent
schemes for his poor parishioners, when in after years he held the living of
Hitcham. My

  [page] 66 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

intimacy with such a man ought to have been and I hope was an inestimable
benefit. I cannot resist mentioning a trifling incident, which showed his kind
consideration. Whilst examining some pollengrains on a damp surface I saw the
tubes exserted, and instantly rushed off to communicate my surprising discovery to
him. Now I do not suppose any other Professor of Botany could have helped
laughing at my coming in such a hurry to make such a communication. But he
agreed how interesting the phenomenon was, and explained its meaning, but made
me clearly understand how well it was known so I left him not in the least
mortified, but well pleased at having discovered for myself so remarkable a fact,
but determined not to be in such a hurry again to communicate my discoveries.

Dr. Whewell1 was one of the older and distinguished men who sometimes visited
Henslow, and on several occasions I walked home with him at night. Next to Sir J.
Mackintosh he was the best converser on grave subjects to whom I ever listened.
Leonard Jenyns,2(grandson of the famous Soames Jenyns), who afterwards
published some good essays in Natural History, often staid with Henslow, who was
his brotherinlaw. At first I disliked him from his somewhat grim and

1 William Whewell, 17941866, Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, 18411866. F.R.S. 1820.
Philosopher, theologian and scientist.--N. B.

2 Mr. Jenyns (now Blomefield) described the fish for the Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle
and is author of a long series of papers, chiefly zoological. In 1887 he printed, for private
circulation, an autobiographical sketch, Chapters in my Life, and subsequently some (undated)
addenda. The wellknown Soame Jenyns was cousin to Mr. Jenyns father.--F. D. Charles Darwin's
suggested relationship is therefore wrong. Leonard Jenyns almost accepted the offer of the post on
the Beagle before it was offered to Charles Darwin.--N. B.

[page] 67 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

sarcastic expression and it is not often that a first impression is lost but I was
completely mistaken and found him very kindhearted, pleasant and with a good
stock of humour. I visited him at his parsonage on the borders of the Fens
[Swaffham Bulbeck], and had many a good walk and talk with him about Natural
History. I became also acquainted with several other men older than me, who did
not care much about science, but were friends of Henslow. One was a Scotchman,
brother of Sir Alexander Ramsay, and tutor of Jesus College he was a delightful
man, but did not live for many years. Another was Mr Dawes, afterwards Dean of
Hereford and famous for his success in the education of the poor. These men and
others of the same standing, together with Henslow, used sometimes to take
distant excursions into the country, which I was allowed to join and they were most
agreeable.

Looking back, I infer that there must have been something in me a little superior to
the common run of youths, otherwise the abovementioned men, so much older
than me and higher in academical position, would never have allowed me to
associate with them. Certainly I was not aware of any such superiority, and I
remember one of my sporting friends, Turner, who saw me at work on my beetles,

  saying that I should some day be a Fellow of the Royal Society, and the notion
  seemed to me preposterous.

During my last year at Cambridge I read with care and profound interest
Humboldt's Personal Narrative. This work and Sir J. Herschel's Introduction to the
Study

[page] 68 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

of Natural Philosophy stirred up in me a burning zeal to add even the most humble
contribution to the noble structure of Natural Science. No one or a dozen other
books influenced me nearly so much as these two. I copied out from Humboldt long
passages about Teneriffe, and read them aloud on one of the abovementioned
excursions, to (I think) Henslow, Ramsay and Dawes for on a previous occasion I
had talked about the glories of Teneriffe, and some of the party declared they
would endeavour to go there but I think that they were only half in earnest. I was,
however, quite in earnest, and got an introduction to a merchant in London to
enquire about ships but the scheme was of course knocked on the head by the
voyage of the Beagle.

My summer vacations were given up to collecting beetles, to some reading and
short tours. In the autumn my whole time was devoted to shooting, chiefly at
Woodhouse and Maer, and sometimes with young Eyton of Eyton.1 Upon the whole
the three years which I spent at Cambridge were the most joyful in my happy life
for I was then in excellent health, and almost always in high spirits.

As I had at first come up to Cambridge at Christmas, I was forced to keep two
terms after passing my final examination, at the commencement of 1831 and
Henslow then persuaded me to begin the study of geology. Therefore on my return
to Shropshire I examined sections

1 Thomas Campbell Eyton, 18091880. Corresponded with Darwin and Agassiz, and opposed
Darwinism.--N. B.

[page] 69 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

and coloured a map of parts round Shrewsbury. Professor Sedgwick intended to
visit N. Wales in the beginning of August to pursue his famous geological
investigation amongst the older rocks, and Henslow asked him to allow me to
accompany him.1Accordingly he came and slept at my Father's house.

A short conversation with him during this evening produced a strong impression on
my mind. Whilst examining an old gravelpit near Shrewsbury a labourer told me
that he had found in it a large worn tropical Volute shell, such as may be seen on
the chimneypieces of cottages and as he would not sell the shell I was convinced
that he had really found it in the pit. I told Sedgwick of the fact, and he at once,
said (no doubt truly) that it must have been thrown away by someone into the pit
but then added, if really embedded there it would be the greatest misfortune to
geology, as it would overthrow all that we know about the superficial deposits of

  the midland counties. These gravel beds belonged in fact to the glacial period, and
  in after years I found in them broken arctic shells. But I was then utterly
  astonished at Sedgwick not being delighted at so wonderful a fact as a tropical
  shell being found near the surface in the middle of England. Nothing before had
  ever made me thoroughly realise, though I had read various scien

1 In connection with this tour my father used to tell a story about Sedgwick: they had started from
their inn one morning, and had walked a mile or two, when Sedgwick suddenly stopped, and vowed
that he would return, being certain "that damned scoundrel" (the waiter) had not given the
chambermaid the sixpence entrusted to him for the purpose. He was ultimately persuaded to give
up the project, seeing that there was no reason for suspecting the waiter of perfidy.--F. D.

[page] 70 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

tific books, that science consists in grouping facts so that general laws or
conclusions may be drawn from them.

Next morning we started for Llangollen, Conway, Bangor, and Capel Curig. This tour
was of decided use in teaching me a little how to make out the geology of a
country. Sedgwick often sent me on a line parallel to his, telling me to bring back
specimens of the rocks and to mark the stratification on a map. I have little doubt
that he did this for my good, as I was too ignorant to have aided him. On this tour
I had a striking instance how easy it is to overlook phenomena, however
conspicuous, before they have been observed by anyone. We spent many hours in
Cwm Idwal, examining all the rocks with extreme care, as Sedgwick was anxious to
find fossils in them but neither of us saw a trace of the wonderful glacial
phenomena all around us we did not notice the plainly scored rocks, the perched
boulders, the lateral and terminal moraines. Yet these phenomena are so
conspicuous that, as I declared in a paper published many years afterwards in
the Philosophical Magazine,1 a house burnt down by fire did not tell its story more
plainly than did this valley. If it had still been filled by a glacier, the phenomena
would have been less distinct than they now are.

At Capel Curig I left Sedgwick and went in a straight line by compass and map
across the mountains to Barmouth, never following any track unless it coincided
with my course. I thus came on some strange wild

1 Philosophical Magazine, 1842--F D.

[page] 71 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

places and enjoyed much this manner of travelling. I visited Barmouth to see some
Cambridge friends who were reading there, and thence returned to Shrewsbury
and to Maer for shooting for at that time I should have thought myself mad to
give up the first days of partridgeshooting for geology or any other science.

Voyage of the 'Beagle': from Dec. 27, 1831 to Oct. 2, 1836

ON RETURNING home from my short geological tour in N. Wales, I found a letter
from Henslow, informing me that Captain FitzRoy1 was willing to give up part of
  his own cabin to any young man who would volunteer to go with him without pay
  as naturalist to the Voyage of the Beagle. I have given as I believe in my M.S.
  Journal an account of all the circumstances which then occurred I will here only
  say that I was instantly eager to accept the offer, but my father strongly objected,
  adding the words fortunate for me,--"If you can find any man of common sense,
  who advises you to go, I will give my consent." So I wrote that evening and
  refused the offer. On the next morning I went to Maer to be ready for September
  1st, and whilst out shooting, my uncle1 sent

1 Robert FitzRoy, 18051865. Vice admiral, hydrographer and meteorologist. Son of Lord Charles
FitzRoy, and grandson of the Duke of Grafton. Instituted systems of weatherwarnings--N. B.

2 Josiah Wedgwood, son of Josiah Wedgwood the Potter.

[page] 72 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

for me, offering to drive me over to Shrewsbury and talk with my father. As my
uncle thought it would be wise in me to accept the offer, and as my father always
maintained that he was one of the most sensible men in the world, he at once
consented in the kindest manner.1 I had been rather extravagant at Cambridge and
to console my father said, "that I should be deuced clever to spend more than my
allowance whilst on board the Beagle" but he answered with a smile, "But they all
tell me you are very clever."

Next day I started for Cambridge to see Henslow, and thence to London to see Fitz
Roy, and all was soon arranged. Afterwards on becoming very intimate with Fitz
Roy, I heard that I had run a very narrow risk of being rejected, on account of the
shape of my nose! He was an ardent disciple of Lavater, and was convinced that he
could judge a man's character by the outline of his features and he doubted
whether anyone with my nose could possess sufficient energy and determination
for the voyage. But I think he was afterwards wellsatisfied that my nose had
spoken falsely.

FitzRoy's character was a singular one, with many very noble features: he was
devoted to his duty, generous to a fault, bold, determined, indomitably energetic,
and an ardent friend to all under his sway. He would undertake any sort of trouble
to assist those whom he thought deserved assistance. He was a handsome man,

1 See Note 2, p. 226 letters from Charles Darwin and Josiah Wedgwood, refuting Dr. Robert's
objections to the voyage. How Dr. Robert Darwin's objections to the Voyage were overcome.--N. B.

[page] 73 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

strikingly like a gentleman, with highly courteous manners, which resembled those

of his maternal uncle, the famous Lord Castlereagh, as I was told by the Minister at

Rio. Nevertheless he must have inherited much in his appearance from Charles II,

for Dr. Wallich gave me a collection of photographs which he had made, and I was

struck with the resemblance of one to FitzRoy on looking at the name, I found it

Ch. E. Sobieski Stuart, Count d'Albanie,1 illegitimate descendant of the same

monarch.

  FitzRoy's temper was a most unfortunate one. This was shown not only by passion
  but by fits of longcontinued moroseness against those who had offended him. His
  temper was usually worst in the early morning, and with his eagle eye he could
  generally detect something amiss about the ship, and was then unsparing in his
  blame. The junior officers when they relieved each other in the forenoon used to
  ask "whether much hot coffee had been served out this morning,--" which meant
  how was the Captain's temper? He was also somewhat suspicious and occasionally
  in very low spirits, on one occasion bordering on insanity. He seemed to me often
  to fail in sound judgment or common sense. He was extremely kind to me, but was
  a man very difficult to live with on the intimate terms which necessarily followed
  from our messing by ourselves in the same cabin. We had several quarrels for
  when out of temper he was utterly unreasonable. For instance, early

1 The Count d'Albanie's claim to Royal descent has been shown to be based on a myth. See
the Quarterly Review, 1847, vol. lxxxi. p. 83 also Hayward's Biographical and Critical Essays, 1873,
vol. ii. p. 201.--F. D.

[page] 74 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

in the voyage at Bahia in Brazil he defended and praised slavery, which I
abominated, and told me that he had just visited a great slaveowner, who had
called up many of his slaves and asked them whether they were happy, and
whether they wished to be free, and all answered "No." I then asked him, perhaps
with a sneer, whether he thought that the answers of slaves in the presence of
their master was worth anything. This made him excessively angry, and he said
that as I doubted his word, we could not live any longer together. I thought that I
should have been compelled to leave the ship but as soon as the news spread,
which it did quickly, as the captain sent for the first lieutenant to assuage his anger
by abusing me, I was deeply gratified by receiving an invitation from all the gun
room officers to mess with them. But after a few hours FitzRoy showed his usual
magnanimity by sending an officer to me with an apology and a request that I
would continue to live with him. I remember another instance of his candour. At
Plymouth before we sailed, he was extremely angry with a dealer in crockery who
refused to exchange some article purchased in his shop: the Captain asked the
man the price of a very expensive set of china and said "I should have purchased
this if you had not been so disobliging." As I knew that the cabin was amply
stocked with crockery, I doubted whether he had any such intention and I must
have shown my doubts in my face, for I said not a word. After leaving the shop he
looked at me, saying You do not believe what I have said, and I was forced to own

[page] 75 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

that it was so. He was silent for a few minutes and then said You are right, and I
acted wrongly in my anger at the blackguard.

At Conception in Chile, poor FitzRoy was sadly overworked and in very low spirits
he complained bitterly to me that he must give a great party to all the inhabitants
of the place. I remonstrated and said that I could see no such necessity on his part
under the circumstances. He then burst out into a fury, declaring that I was the

  sort of man who would receive any favours and make no return. I got up and left
  the cabin without saying a word, and returned to Conception where I was then
  lodging. After a few days I came back to the ship and was received by the Captain
  as cordially as ever, for the storm had by that time quite blown over. The first
  Lieutenant, however, said to me: "Confound you, philosopher, I wish you would not
  quarrel with the skipper the day you left the ship I was deadtired (the ship was
  refitting) and he kept me walking the deck till midnight abusing you all the time."
  The difficulty of living on good terms with a Captain of a ManofWar is much
  increased by its being almost mutinous to answer him as one would answer anyone
  else and by the awe in which he is held--or was held in my time, by all on board. I
  remember hearing a curious instance of this in the case of the purser of
  the Adventure,--the ship which sailed with the Beagle during the first voyage. The
  Purser was in a store in Rio de Janeiro, purchasing rum for the ship's company, and
  a little gentleman in plain clothes walked in. The Purser said to him, "Now

  [page] 76 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  Sir, be so kind as to taste this rum, and give me your opinion of it." The gentleman
  did as he was asked, and soon left the store. The storekeeper then asked the
  Purser, whether he knew that he had been speaking to the Captain of a Line of
  Battleships which had just come into the harbour. The poor Purser was struck dumb
  with horror he let the glass of spirit drop from his hand onto the floor, and
  immediately went on board, and no persuasion, as an officer on
  the Adventure assured me, could make him go on shore again for fear of meeting
  the Captain after his dreadful act of familiarity.

  I saw FitzRoy only occasionally after our return home, for I was always afraid of
  unintentionally offending him, and did so once, almost beyond mutual
  reconciliation. He was afterwards very indignant with me for having published so
  unorthodox a book (for he became very religious) as the Origin of Species. Towards
  the close of his life he was as I fear, much impoverished, and this was largely due
  to his generosity. Anyhow after his death a subscription was raised to pay his
  debts. His end was a melancholy one, namely suicide, exactly like that of his uncle
  Ld. Castlereagh, whom he resembled closely in manner and appearance.

  His character was in several respects one of the most noble which I have ever
  known, though tarnished by grave blemishes.

  The voyage of the Beagle has been by far the most important event in my life and
  has determined my whole career yet it depended on so small a circumstance as

  [page] 77 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  my uncle offering to drive me 30 miles to Shrewsbury, which few uncles would
  have done, and on such a trifle as the shape of my nose. I have always felt that I
  owe to the voyage the first real training or education of my mind. I was led to
  attend closely to several branches of natural history, and thus my powers of
  observation were improved, though they were already fairly developed.

  The investigation of the geology of all the places visited was far more important, as
  reasoning here comes into play. On first examining a new district nothing can
  appear more hopeless than the chaos of rocks but by recording the stratification
  and nature of the rocks and fossils at many points, always reasoning and predicting
  what will be found elsewhere, light soon begins to dawn on the district, and the
  structure of the whole becomes more or less intelligible. I had brought with me the
  first volume of Lyell's Principles of Geology, which I studied attentively and this
  book was of the highest service to me in many ways. The very first place which I
  examined, namely St. Jago in the Cape Verde islands, showed me clearly the
  wonderful superiority of Lyell's manner of treating geology, compared with that of
  any other author, whose works I had with me or ever afterwards read.1

Another of my occupations was collecting animals of all classes, briefly describing
and roughly dissecting many of the marine ones but from not being able to

1 The second volume of Lyell's Principles of Geology reached him in Monte Video in 1832.--N. B.

[page] 78 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

draw and from not having sufficient anatomical knowledge a great pile of MS.
which I made during the voyage has proved almost useless. I thus lost much time,
with the exception of that spent in acquiring some knowledge of the Crustaceans,
as this was of service when in after years I undertook a monograph of the
Cirripedia.

During some part of the day I wrote my Journal, and took much pains in describing
carefully and vividly all that I had seen and this was good practice. My Journal
served, also, in part as letters to my home, and portions were sent to England,
whenever there was an opportunity.

The above various special studies were, however, of no importance compared with
the habit of energetic industry and of concentrated attention to whatever I was
engaged in, which I then acquired. Everything about which I thought or read was
made to bear directly on what I had seen and was likely to see and this habit of
mind was continued during the five years of the voyage. I feel sure that it was this
training which has enabled me to do whatever I have done in science.

Looking backwards, I can now perceive how my love for science gradually
preponderated over every other taste. During the first two years my old passion for
shooting survived in nearly full force, and I shot myself all the birds and animals
for my collection but gradually I gave up my gun more and more, and finally
altogether to my servant, as shooting interfered with my work,

[page] 79 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

more especially with making out the geological structure of a country. I discovered,
though unconsciously and insensibly, that the pleasure of observing and reasoning
was a much higher one than that of skill and sport. The primeval instincts of the
barbarian slowly yielded to the acquired tastes of the civilized man. That my mind

  became developed through my pursuits during the voyage, is rendered probable by
  a remark made by my father, who was the most acute observer whom I ever saw,
  of a sceptical disposition, and far from being a believer in phrenology for on first
  seeing me after the voyage, he turned round to my sisters and exclaimed, "Why,
  the shape of his head is quite altered."

  To return to the voyage. On September 11th (1831) I paid a flying visit with Fitz
  Roy to the Beagle at Plymouth. Thence to Shrewsbury to wish my father and sisters
  a long farewell. On Oct. 24th, I took up my residence at Plymouth, and remained
  there until December 27th when the Beagle finally left the shores of England for
  her circumnavigation of the world. We made two earlier attempts to sail, but were
  driven back each time by heavy gales. These two months at Plymouth were the
  most miserable which I ever spent, though I exerted myself in various ways. I was
  out of spirits at the thought of leaving all my family and friends for so long a time,
  and the weather seemed to me inexpressibly gloomy. I was also troubled with
  palpitations and pain about the heart, and like many a young ignorant man,
  especially one with a smattering of medical knowledge,

  T.A.C.D. F

  [page] 80 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  was convinced that I had heartdisease. I did not consult any doctor, as I fully
  expected to hear the verdict that I was not fit for the voyage, and I was resolved to
  go at all hazards.

  I need not here refer to the events of the voyage--where we went and what we did
  --as I have given a sufficiently full account in my published Journal. The glories of
  the vegetation of the Tropics rise before my mind at the present time more vividly
  than anything else. Though the sense of sublimity, which the great deserts of
  Patagonia and the forestclad mountains of Tierra del Fuego excited in me, has left
  an indelible impression on my mind. The sight of a naked savage in his native land
  is an event which can never be forgotten. Many of my excursions on horseback
  through wild countries, or in the boats, some of which lasted several weeks, were
  deeply interesting their discomfort and some degree of danger were at that time
  hardly a drawback and none at all afterwards. I also reflect with high satisfaction
  on some of my scientific work, such as solving the problem of coralislands, and
  making out the geological structure of certain islands, for instance, St. Helena.
  Nor1 must I pass over the discovery of the singular relations of the animals and
  plants inhabiting the several islands of the Galapagos archipelago, and of all of
  them to the inhabitants of South America.

  As far as I can judge of myself I worked to the utmost during the voyage from the
  mere pleasure of investigation, and from my strong desire to add a few facts to the

  1 Addendum to end of paragraph.--N. B.

  [page] 81 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  great mass of facts in natural science. But I was also ambitious to take a fair place
  among scientific men,--whether more ambitious or less so than most of my fellow
  workers I can form no opinion.

The geology of St. Jago is very striking yet simple: a stream of lava formerly
flowed over the bed of the sea, formed of triturated recent shells and corals, which
it has baked into a hard white rock. Since then the whole island has been
upheaved. But the line of white rock revealed to me a new and important fact,
namely that there had been afterwards subsidence round the craters, which had
since been in action, and had poured forth lava. It then first dawned on me that I
might perhaps write a book on the geology of the various countries visited, and this
made me thrill with delight. That was a memorable hour to me, and how distinctly I
can call to mind the low cliff of lava beneath which I rested, with the sun glaring
hot, a few strange desert plants growing near, and with living corals in the tidal
pools at my feet. Later in the voyage FitzRoy asked to read some of my Journal,
and declared it would be worth publishing so here was a second book in prospect!

Towards the close of our voyage I received a letter whilst at Ascension, in which my
sisters told me that Sedgwick had called on my father and said that I should take a
place among the leading scientific men. I could not at the time understand how he
could have learnt anything of my proceedings, but I heard (I believe afterwards)
that Henslow had read some of the letters which

[page] 82 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

I wrote to him before the Philosophical Soc. of Cambridge1 and had printed them
for private distribution. My collection of fossil bones, which had been sent to
Henslow, also excited considerable attention amongst palæontologists. After
reading this letter I clambered over the mountains of Ascension with a bounding
step and made the volcanic rocks resound under my geological hammer! All this
shows how ambitious I was but I think that I can say with truth that in after
years, though I cared in the highest degree for the approbation of such men as
Lyell and Hooker, who were my friends, I did not care much about the general
public. I do not mean to say that a favourable review or a large sale of my books
did not please me greatly but the pleasure was a fleeting one, and I am sure that
I have never turned one inch out of my course to gain fame.

From my return to England Oct. 2, 1836 to my marriage Jan. 29, 1839

THESE TWO years and three months were the most active ones which I ever spent,
though I was occasionally unwell and so lost some time. After going backwards and
forwards several times between Shrewsbury, Maer,

1 Read at the meeting held November 16, 1835, and printed in apamphlet of 31 pp. for distribution
among the members of the Society.--F. D.

[page] 83 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Cambridge and London, I settled in lodgings at Cambridge1 on December 13th,

  where all my collections were under the care of Henslow. I stayed here three
  months and got my minerals and rocks examined by the aid of Prof. Miller.2

I began preparing my Journal of travels, which was not hard work, as my MS.
Journal had been written with care, and my chief labour was making an abstract of
my more interesting scientific results. I sent also, at the request of Lyell, a short
account of my observations on the elevation of the coast of Chile to the Geological
Society.3

On March 7th, 1837, I took lodgings in Great Marlborough Street in London and
remained there for nearly two years until I was married.4 During these two years I
finished my Journal, read several papers before the Geological Society, began
preparing the MS. for my Geological Observations and arranged for the publication
of the Zoology of the Voyage of the Beagle. In July I opened my first notebook for
facts in relation to the Origin of Species, about which I had long reflected, and
never ceased working on for the next twenty years.

During these two years I also went a little into society, and acted as one of the
hon. secretaries of the Geological Society. I saw a great deal of Lyell. One of his
chief characteristics was his sympathy with the work of others

1 In Fitzwilliam Street.--F.D.
2 William Hallowes Miller, 18011880. Professor of Mineralogy, 183270.--N. B.
3 Geolog. Soc. Proc. ii. 1838, pp. 446449.--F. D.
4 See Note 3, p. 231. "This is the question."--N. B.

[page] 84 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

and I was as much astonished as delighted at the interest which he showed when
on my return to England I explained to him my views on coral reefs. This
encouraged me greatly, and his advice and example had much influence on me.
During this time I saw also a good deal of Robert Brown1 "facile princeps
botanicorum." I used often to call and sit with him during his breakfast on Sunday
mornings, and he poured forth a rich treasure of curious observations and acute
remarks, but they almost always related to minute points, and he never with me
discussed large and general questions in science.

During these two years I took several short excursions as a relaxation, and one
longer one to the parallel roads of Glen Roy, an account of which was published in
the Philosophical Transactions.2 This paper was a great failure, and I am ashamed
of it. Having been deeply impressed with what I had seen of the elevation of the
land in S. America, I attributed the parallel lines to the action of the sea but I had
to give up this view when Agassiz propounded his glacierlake theory. Because no
other explanation was possible under our then state of knowledge, I argued in
favour of seaaction and my error has been a good lesson to me never to trust in
science to the principle of exclusion.

  As I was not able to work all day at science I read a good deal during these two
  years on various subjects, including some metaphysical books, but I was not at

1 Robert Brown, 17731858. Botanist, Librarian to Linnean Society.--N. B.
2 1839, pp. 3982.--F. D.

[page] 85 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

[all] well fitted for such studies. About this time I took much delight in
Wordsworth's and Coleridge's poetry, and can boast that I read the Excursion twice
through. Formerly Milton's Paradise Lost had been my chief favourite, and in my
excursions during the voyage of the Beagle, when I could take only a single small
volume, I always chose Milton.

Religious Belief

DURING THESE two years1 I was led to think much about religion. Whilst on board
the Beagle I was quite orthodox, and I remember being heartily laughed at by
several of the officers (though themselves orthodox) for quoting the Bible as an
unanswerable authority on some point of morality. I suppose it was the novelty of
the argument that amused them. But I had gradually come, by this time, to see
that the Old Testament from its manifestly false history of the world, with the
Tower of Babel, the rainbow as a sign, etc., etc., and from its attributing to God the
feelings of a revengeful tyrant, was no more to be trusted than the sacred books of
the Hindoos, or the beliefs of any barbarian. The question then continually rose
before my mind and would not be banished,--is it credible that if God were now to
make a revelation to the Hindoos, would he

1 October 1836 to January 1839.--F. D.

[page] 86 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

permit it to be connected with the belief in Vishnu, Siva, &c., as Christianity is
connected with the Old Testament. This appeared to me utterly incredible.

By further reflecting that the clearest evidence would be requisite to make any
sane man believe in the miracles by which Christianity is supported,--that the more
we know of the fixed laws of nature the more incredible do miracles become,--that
the men at that time were ignorant and credulous to a degree almost
incomprehensible by us,--that the Gospels cannot be proved to have been written
simultaneously with the events,--that they differ in many important details, far too
important as it seemed to me to be admitted as the usual inaccuracies of eye
witnesses--by such reflections as these, which I give not as having the least
novelty or value, but as they influenced me, I gradually came to disbelieve in
Christianity as a divine revelation. The fact that many false religions have spread
over large portions of the earth like wildfire had some weight with me. Beautiful as
is the morality of the New Testament, it can hardly be denied that its perfection
depends in part on the interpretation which we now put on metaphors and
allegories.

  But I was very unwilling to give up my belief--I feel sure of this for I can well
  remember often and often inventing daydreams of old letters between
  distinguished Romans and manuscripts being discovered at Pompeii or elsewhere
  which confirmed in the most striking manner all that was written in the Gospels.
  But I found it more and more difficult, with free scope given to my imagina

[page] 87 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

tion, to invent evidence which would suffice to convince me. Thus disbelief crept
over me at a very slow rate, but was at last complete. The rate was so slow that I
felt no distress, and have never since doubted even for a single second that my
conclusion was correct. I can indeed hardly see how anyone ought to wish
Christianity to be true for if so the plain language of the text seems to show that
the men who do not believe, and this would include my Father, Brother and almost
all my best friends, will be everlastingly punished.

And this is a damnable doctrine.1

Although I did not think much about the existence of a personal God until a
considerably later period of my life, I will here give the vague conclusions to which
I have been driven. The old argument of design in nature, as given by Paley, which
formerly seemed to me so conclusive, fails, now that the law of natural selection
has been discovered. We can no longer argue that, for instance, the beautiful hinge
of a bivalve shell must have been made by an intelligent being, like the hinge of a
door by man. There seems to be no more design in the variability of organic beings
and in the action of natural selection, than in the course which the wind blows.
Everything in nature is the result of fixed laws.

1 Mrs. Darwin annotated this passage (from "and have never since doubted".... to "damnable
doctrine") in her own handwriting. She writes:--"I should dislike the passage in brackets to be
published. It seems to me raw. Nothing can be said too severe upon the doctrine of everlasting
punishment for disbelief--but very few now wd. call that 'Christianity,' (tho' the words are there.)
There is the question of verbal inspiration comes in too. E. D." Oct. 1882. This was written six
months after her husband's death, in a second copy of the Autobiography in Francis's handwriting.
The passage was not published. See Introduction.--N. B.

[page] 88 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

But I have discussed this subject at the end of my book on the Variation of
Domestic Animals and Plants,1 and the argument there given has never, as far as I
can see, been answered.

But passing over the endless beautiful adaptations which we everywhere meet
with, it may be asked how can the generally beneficent arrangement of the world
be accounted for? Some writers indeed are so much impressed with the amount of
suffering in the world, that they doubt if we look to all sentient beings, whether
there is more of misery or of happiness--whether the world as a whole is a good
or a bad one. According to my judgment happiness decidedly prevails, though this
would be very difficult to prove. If the truth of this conclusion be granted, it
harmonises well with the effects which we might expect from natural selection. If

  all the individuals of any species were habitually to suffer to an extreme degree
  they would neglect to propagate their kind but we have no reason to believe that
  this has ever or at least often occurred. Some other considerations, moreover, lead
  to the belief that all sentient beings have been formed so as to enjoy, as a general
  rule, happiness.

  Every one who believes, as I do, that all the corporeal

  1 My father asks whether we are to believe that the forms are preordained of the broken fragments
  of rock which are fitted together by man to build his houses. If not, why should we believe that the
  variations of domestic animals or plants are preordained for the sake of the breeder? "But if we
  give up the principle in one case,...no shadow of reason can be assigned for the belief that
  variations alike in nature and the result of the same general laws, which have been the groundwork
  through natural selection of the formation of the most perfectly adapted animals in the world, man
  included, were intentionally and specially guided."--Variations of Animals and Plants, 1st Edit. vol.
  ii. p. 431.--F. D.

  [page] 89 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  and mental organs (excepting those which are neither advantageous or
  disadvantageous to the possessor) of all beings have been developed through
  natural selection, or the survival of the fittest, together with use or habit,1 will
  admit that these organs have been formed so that their possessors may compete
  successfully with other beings, and thus increase in number. Now an animal may be
  led to pursue that course of action which is the most beneficial to the species by
  suffering, such as pain, hunger, thirst, and fear,--or by pleasure, as in eating and
  drinking and in the propagation of the species, &c. or by both means combined, as
  in the search for food. But pain or suffering of any kind, if long continued, causes
  depression and lessens the power of action yet is well adapted to make a creature
  guard itself against any great or sudden evil. Pleasurable sensations, on the other
  hand, may be long continued without any depressing effect on the contrary they
  stimulate the whole system to increased action. Hence it has come to pass that
  most or all sentient beings have been developed in such a manner through natural
  selection, that pleasurable sensations serve as their habitual guides. We see this in
  the pleasure from exertion, even occasionally from great exertion of the body or
  mind,--in the pleasure of our daily meals, and especially in the pleasure derived
  from sociability and from loving our families. The sum of such pleasures as these,
  which are habitual or frequently recurrent, give, as I can hardly doubt, to

  1 "together with use or habit" added later. The many corrections and alterations in this sentence
  show his increasing preoccupation with the possibility of other forces at work besides Natural
  Selection. See P. 15--N. B.

  [page] 90 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  most sentient beings an excess of happiness over misery, although many
  occasionally suffer much. Such suffering, is quite compatible with the belief in
  Natural Selection, which is not perfect in its action, but tends only to render each
  species as successful as possible in the battle for life with other species, in
  wonderfully complex and changing circumstances.

  That there is much suffering in the world no one disputes. Some have attempted to
  explain this in reference to man by imagining that it serves for his moral
  improvement. But the number of men in the world is as nothing compared with
  that of all other sentient beings, and these often suffer greatly without any moral
  improvement. A being so powerful and so full of knowledge as a God who could
  create the universe, is to our finite minds omnipotent and omniscient, and it revolts
  our understanding to suppose that his benevolence is not unbounded, for what
  advantage can there be in the sufferings of millions of the lower animals
  throughout almost endless time? This very old argument from the existence of
  suffering against the existence of an intelligent first cause seems to me a strong
  one whereas, as just remarked, the presence of much suffering agrees well with
  the view that all organic beings have been developed through variation and natural
  selection.

At the present day the most usual argument for the existence of an intelligent God
is drawn from the deep inward conviction and feelings which are experienced by
most persons. But it cannot be doubted that Hindoos,

[page] 91 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Mahomadans and others might argue in the same manner and with equal force in
favour of the existence of one God, or of many Gods, or as with the Buddists of no
God. There are also many barbarian tribes who cannot be said with any truth to
believe in what we call God: they believe indeed in spirits or ghosts, and it can be
explained, as Tyler and Herbert Spencer have shown, how such a belief would be
likely to arise.

Formerly I was led by feelings such as those just referred to, (although I do not
think that the religious sentiment was ever strongly developed in me), to the firm
conviction of the existence of God, and of the immortality of the soul. In my
Journal I wrote that whilst standing in the midst of the grandeur of a Brazilian
forest, 'it is not possible to give an adequate idea of the higher feelings of wonder,
admiration, and devotion which fill and elevate the mind.' I well remember my
conviction that there is more in man than the mere breath of his body. But now the
grandest scenes would not cause any such convictions and feelings to rise in my
mind. It may be truly said that I am like a man who has become colourblind, and
the universal belief by men of the existence of redness makes my present loss of
perception of not the least value as evidence. This argument would be a valid one if
all men of all races had the same inward conviction of the existence of one God
but we know that this is very far from being the case. Therefore I cannot see that
such inward convictions and feelings are of any weight as evidence of what really
exists. The state of mind which grand scenes formerly

[page] 92 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  excited in me, and which was intimately connected with a belief in God, did not     49/145
  essentially differ from that which is often called the sense of sublimity and
  however difficult it may be to explain the genesis of this sense, it can hardly be
  advanced as an argument for the existence of God, any more than the powerful

  though vague and similar feelings excited by music.

With respect to immortality,1 nothing shows me how strong and almost instinctive
a belief it is, as the consideration of the view now held by most physicists, namely
that the sun with all the planets will in time grow too cold for life, unless indeed
some great body dashes into the sun and thus gives it fresh life.--Believing as I do
that man in the distant future will be a far more perfect creature than he now is, it
is an intolerable thought that he and all other sentient beings are doomed to
complete annihilation after such longcontinued slow progress. To those who fully
admit the immortality of the human soul, the destruction of our world will not
appear so dreadful.

Another source of conviction in the existence of God, connected with the reason
and not with the feelings, impresses me as having much more weight. This follows
from the extreme difficulty or rather impossibility of conceiving this immense and
wonderful universe, including man with his capacity of looking far backwards and
far into futurity, as the result of blind chance or necessity. When thus reflecting I
feel compelled to look to a First Cause having an intelligent mind in some

1 Addendum added later to end of paragraph--N. B.

[page] 93 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

degree analogous to that of man and I deserve to be called a Theist.

This conclusion1 was strong in my mind about the time, as far as I can remember,
when I wrote theOrigin of Species and it is since that time that it has very
gradually with many fluctuations become weaker. But then arises the doubt--can
the mind of man, which has, as I fully believe, been developed from a mind as low
as that possessed by the lowest animal, be trusted when it draws such grand
conclusions? May not these be the result of the connection between cause and
effect which strikes us as a necessary one, but probably depends merely on
inherited experience? Nor must we overlook the probability of the constant
inculcation in a belief in God on the minds of children producing so strong and
perhaps an inherited effect on their brains not yet fully developed, that it would be
as difficult for them to throw off their belief in God, as for a monkey to throw off its
instinctive fear and hatred of a snake.2

1 Addendum of four lines added later. In Charles's MS. copy the interleaved addition is in his eldest
son's hand. In Francis's copy it is in Charles's own hand.--N. B.

2 Added later. Emma Darwin wrote and asked Frank to omit this sentence when he was editing the
Autobiography in 1885. The letter is as follows:--

"Emma Darwin to her son Francis. 1885.

My dear Frank,

There is one sentence in the Autobiography which I very much wish to omit, no doubt partly
because your father's opinion thatall morality has grown up by evolution is painful to me but also
because where this sentence comes in, it gives one a sort of shock--and would give an opening to
say, however unjustly, that he considered all spiritual beliefs no higher than hereditary aversions or

  likings, such as the fear of monkeys towards snakes.

  I think the disrespectful aspect would disappear if the first part of the conjecture was left without
  the illustration of the instance of monkeys and snakes. I don't think you need consult William about
  this omission, as it would not change the whole gist of the Autobiography. I should wish if possible
  to avoid giving pain to your father's religious friends who are

  [page] 94 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  I cannot pretend to throw the least light on such abstruse problems. The mystery
  of the beginning of all things is insoluble by us and I for one must be content to
  remain an Agnostic.

  A man who has no assured and ever present belief in the existence of a personal
  God or of a future existence with retribution and reward, can have for his rule of
  life, as far as I can see, only to follow those impulses and instincts which are the
  strongest or which seem to him the best ones. A dog acts in this manner, but he
  does so blindly. A man, on the other hand, looks forwards and backwards, and
  compares his various feelings, desires and recollections. He then finds, in
  accordance with the verdict of all the wisest men that the highest satisfaction is
  derived from following certain impulses, namely the social instincts. If he acts for
  the good of others, he will receive the approbation of his fellow men and gain the
  love of those with whom he lives and this latter gain undoubtedly is the highest
  pleasure on this earth. By degrees it will become intolerable to him to obey his
  sensuous passions rather than his higher impulses, which when rendered habitual
  may be almost called instincts. His reason may occasionally tell him to act in
  opposition to the opinion of others, whose approbation

  ___________

  deeply attached to him, and I picture to myself the way that sentence would strike them, even
  those so liberal as Ellen Tollett and Laura, much more Admiral Sullivan, Aunt Caroline, &c., and
  even the old servants.

  Yours, dear Frank,

  E. D."

  This letter appeared in Emma Darwin by Henrietta Litchfield in the privately printed edition from the
  Cambridge University Press in 1904. In John Murray's public edition of 1915 it was omitted.--N. B.

  [page] 95 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  he will then not receive but he will still have the solid satisfaction of knowing that
  he has followed his innermost guide or conscience.--As for myself I believe that I
  have acted rightly in steadily following and devoting my life to science. I feel no
  remorse from having committed any great sin, but have often and often regretted
  that I have not done more direct good to my fellow creatures. My sole and poor
  excuse is much illhealth and my mental constitution, which makes it extremely
  difficult for me to turn from one subject or occupation to another. I can imagine
  with high satisfaction giving up my whole time to philanthropy, but not a portion of
  it though this would have been a far better line of conduct.

  Nothing1 is more remarkable than the spread of scepticism or rationalism during
  the latter half of my life. Before I was engaged to be married, my father advised
  me to conceal carefully my doubts, for he said that he had known extreme misery
  thus caused with married persons. Things went on pretty well until the wife or
  husband became out of health, and then some women suffered miserably by
  doubting about the salvation of their husbands, thus making them likewise to
  suffer. My father added that he had known during his whole long life only three
  women who were sceptics and it should be remembered that he knew well a
  multitude of persons and possessed extraordinary power of winning confidence.
  When I asked him who the three

1 This paragraph has a note by Charles:--"Written in 1879--copied out Apl. 22, 1881." Probably
refers also to previous paragraph.--N. B.

T.A.C.D. G

[page] 96 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

women were, he had to own with respect to one of them, his sisterinlaw Kitty
Wedgwood, that he had no good evidence, only the vaguest hints, aided by the
conviction that so clearsighted a woman could not be a believer. At the present
time, with my small acquaintance, I know (or have known) several married ladies,
who believe very little more than their husbands. My father used to quote an
unanswerable argument, by which an old lady, a Mrs Barlow, who suspected him of
unorthodoxy, hoped to convert him:--" Doctor, I know that sugar is sweet in my
mouth, and I know that my Redeemer liveth."

From my marriage, Jan. 29, 1839, and residence in Upper Gower Street to our
                    leaving London and settling at Down, Sep. 14, 1842

YOU ALL know well your Mother, and what a good Mother she has ever been to all
of you. She has been my greatest blessing, and I can declare that in my whole life
I have never heard her utter one word which I had rather have been unsaid. She
has never failed in the kindest sympathy towards me, and has borne with the
utmost patience my frequent complaints from illhealth and discomfort. I do not
believe she has ever missed an opportunity of doing a kind action to anyone near
her.

[page] 97 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

I marvel at my good fortune that she, so infinitely my superior in every single
moral quality, consented to be my wife. She has been my wise adviser and cheerful
comforter throughout life, which without her would have been during a very long
period a miserable one from illhealth. She has earned the love and admiration of
every soul near her.1

(Mem: her beautiful letter to myself preserved, shortly after our marriage.)2

I have indeed been most happy in my family, and I must say to you my children

  that not one of you has ever given me one minute's anxiety, except on the score of
  health. There are, I suspect, very few fathers of five sons who could say this with
  entire truth. When you were very young it was my delight to play with you all, and
  I think with a sigh that such days can never return. From your earliest days to now
  that you are grown up, you have all, sons and daughters, ever been most pleasant,
  sympathetic and affectionate to us and to one another. When all or most of you are
  at home (as, thank Heavens, happens pretty frequently) no party can be, according
  to my taste, more agreeable, and I wish for no other society. We have suffered
  only one very severe grief in the death of Annie at Malvern on April 24th, 1851,
  when she was just over ten years old. She was a most sweet and affectionate child,
  and I feel sure would have grown into a delightful woman. But I need say nothing
  here of her character, as I wrote a short

1 Included in More Letters, Vol. I, p. 30, but not published inAutobiography.
2 See Note 4, p. 235.

[page] 98 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

sketch of it shortly after her death. Tears still sometimes come into my eyes, when
I think of her sweet ways.1

During the three years and eight months whilst we resided in London, I did less
scientific work, though I worked as hard as I possibly could, than during any other
equal length of time in my life. This was owing to frequently recurring unwellness
and to one long and serious illness. The greater part of my time, when I could do
anything, was devoted to my work on Coral Reefs, which I had begun before my
marriage, and of which the last proofsheet was corrected on May 6th, 1842. This
book, though a small one, cost me twenty months of hard work, as I had to read
every work on the islands of the Pacific and to consult many charts. It was thought
highly of by scientific men, and the theory therein given is, I think, now well
established.

No other work of mine was begun in so deductive a spirit as this for the whole
theory was thought out on the west coast of S. America before I had seen a true
coral reef. I had therefore only to verify and extend my views by a careful
examination of living reefs. But it should be observed that I had during the two
previous years been incessantly attending to the effects on the shores of S.
America of the intermittent elevation of the land, together with denudation and the
deposition of sediment. This necessarily led me to reflect much on the effects of
subsidence, and it was easy to replace

1 The fuller account of Annie can be found in Life and Letters, Vol. I, p. 132.--N.B.

[page] 99 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

in imagination the continued deposition of sediment by the upward growth of coral.
To do this was to form my theory of the formation of barrierreefs and atolls.

Besides my work on coralreefs, during my residence in London, I read before the

  Geological Society papers on the Erratic Boulders of S. America,1 on
  Earthquakes,2 and on the Formation by the Agency of Earthworms of Mould.3 I
  also continued to superintend the publication of the Zoology of the Voyage of the
  Beagle. Nor did I ever intermit collecting facts bearing on the origin of species and
  I could sometimes do this when I could do nothing else from illness.

In the summer of 1842 I was stronger than I had been for some time and took a
little tour by myself in N. Wales, for the sake of observing the effects of the old
glaciers which formerly filled all the larger valleys. I published a short account of
what I saw in thePhilosophical Magazine.4 This excursion interested me greatly, and
it was the last time I was ever strong enough to climb mountains or to take long
walks, such as are necessary for geological work.

During the early part of our life in London,5 I was strong enough to go into general
society, and saw a good deal of several scientific men and other more or less
distinguished men. I will give my impressions with

1 Geolog. Soc. Proc. iii. 1842.
2 Geolog. Trans. v. 1840.
3 Geolog. Soc. Proc. ii. 1838.--F.D.
4 Philosophical Magazine, 1842.
5 These reminiscences until "Residence at Down" (p. 114) added Ap. 1881, which accounts for the
slight repetition.--N. B.

[page] 100 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

respect to some of them, though I have little to say worth saying.

I saw more of Lyell than of any other man both before and after my marriage. His
mind was characterised, as it appeared to me, by clearness, caution, sound
judgment and a good deal of originality. When I made any remark to him on
Geology, he never rested until he saw the whole case clearly and often made me
see it more clearly than I had done before. He would advance all possible
objections to my suggestion, and even after these were exhausted would long
remain dubious. A second characteristic was his hearty sympathy with the work of
other scientific men.

On my return from the voyage of the Beagle, I explained to him my views on coral
reefs, which differed from his, and I was greatly surprised and encouraged by the
vivid interest which he showed. On such occasions, while absorbed in thought, he
would throw himself into the strangest attitudes, often resting his head on the seat
of a chair, while standing up. His delight in science was ardent, and he felt the
keenest interest in the future progress of mankind. He was very kindhearted, and
thoroughly liberal in his religious beliefs or rather disbeliefs but he was a strong
theist. His candour was highly remarkable. He exhibited this by becoming a convert
to the Descenttheory, though he had gained much fame by opposing Lamarck's

  views, and this after he had grown old. He reminded me that I had many years
  before said to him, when discussing the opposition of the old school of geologists to
  his new views, "What

[page] 101 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

a good thing it would be, if every scientific man was to die when sixty years old, as
afterwards he would be sure to oppose all new doctrines." But he hoped that now
he might be allowed to live. He had a strong sense of humour and often told
amusing anecdotes. He was very fond of society, especially of eminent men, and of
persons high in rank and this overestimation of a man's position in the world,
seemed to me his chief foible. He used to discuss with Lady Lyell as a most serious
question, whether or not they should accept some particular invitation. But as he
would not dine out more than three times a week on account of the loss of time, he
was justified in weighing his invitations with some care. He looked forward to going
out oftener in the evening with advancing years, as to a great reward but the good
time never came, as his strength failed.

The science of Geology is enormously indebted to Lyell--more so, as I believe, than
to any other man who ever lived. When I was starting on the voyage of the Beagle,
the sagacious Henslow, who, like all other geologists believed at that time in
successive cataclysms, advised me to get and study the first volume of
the Principles, which had then just been published, but on no account to accept the
views therein advocated. How differently would any one now speak of
the Principles! I am proud to remember that the first place, namely St. Jago, in the
Cape Verde Archipelago, which I geologised, convinced me of the infinite
superiority of Lyell's views over those advocated in any other work known to me.

[page] 102 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

The powerful effects of Lyell's works could formerly be plainly seen in the different
progress of the science in France and England. The present total oblivion of Elie de
Beaumont's wild hypotheses, such as his Craters of Elevation and Lines of
Elevation(which latter hypothesis I heard Sedgwick at the Geolog. Soc. lauding to
the skies), may be largely attributed to Lyell.

All the leading geologists were more or less known by me, at the time when
geology was advancing with triumphant steps. I liked most of them, with the
exception of Buckland,1 who though very goodhumoured and goodnatured
seemed to me a vulgar and almost coarse man. He was incited more by a craving
for notoriety, which sometimes made him act like a buffoon, than by a love of
science. He was not, however, selfish in his desire for notoriety for Lyell, when a
very young man, consulted him about communicating a poor paper to the Geol.
Soc. which had been sent him by a stranger, and Buckland answered--"You had
better do so, for it will be headed, 'Communicated by Charles Lyell', and thus your
name will be brought before the public."

The services rendered to geology by Murchison2 by his classification of the older

formations cannot be overestimated but he was very far from possessing a

  1 William Buckland, 17841856, Geologist, professor of mineralogy at Oxford, 1813 President of
  Geological Society, 1824 and 1840.--N. B.

  2 Roderick Impey Murchison, 17921871. Studied secondary rocks. F.R.S. 1826. President R. Geog.
  Soc. 1843 received Russian Orders knighted 1846 K.C.B., 1863 baronet, 1866.--N. B.

  [page] 103 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  philosophical mind. He was very kindhearted and would exert himself to the
  utmost to oblige anyone. The degree to which he valued rank was ludicrous, and he
  displayed this feeling and his vanity with the simplicity of a child. He related with
  the utmost glee to a large circle, including many mere acquaintances, in the rooms
  of the Geolog. Soc. how the Czar Nicholas, when in London, had patted him on the
  shoulder and had said, alluding to his geological work--"Mon ami, Russia is grateful
  to you," and then Murchison added rubbing his hands together, "The best of it was
  that Prince Albert heard it all." He announced one day to the Council of the Geolog.
  Soc. that his great work on the Silurian system was at last published and he then
  looked at all who were present and said, "You will every one of you find your name
  in the Index," as if this was the height of glory.

  I saw a good deal of Robert Brown, "facile Princeps Botanicorum," as he was called
  by Humboldt and before I was married I used to go and sit with him almost every
  Sunday morning. He seemed to me to be chiefly remarkable for the minuteness of
  his observations and their perfect accuracy. He never propounded to me any large
  scientific views in biology. His knowledge was extraordinarily great, and much died
  with him, owing to his excessive fear of ever making a mistake. He poured out his
  knowledge to me in the most unreserved manner, yet was strangely jealous on
  some points. I called on him two or three times before the voyage of the Beagle,
  and on one occasion he asked me to look through a

  [page] 104 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  microscope and describe what I saw. This I did, and believe now that it was the
  marvellous currents of protoplasm in some vegetable cell. I then asked him what I
  had seen but he answered me, who was then hardly more than a boy and on the
  point of leaving England for five years, "That is my little secret." I suppose that he
  was afraid that I might steal his discovery. Hooker told me that he was a complete
  miser, and knew himself to be a miser, about his dried plants and he would not
  lend specimens to Hooker, who was describing the plants of Tierra del Fuego,
  although well knowing that he himself would never make any use of the collections
  from this country. On the other hand he was capable of the most generous actions.
  When old, much out of health and quite unfit for any exertion, he daily visited (as
  Hooker told me) an old manservant, who lived at a distance and whom he
  supported, and read aloud to him. This is enough to make up for any degree of
  scientific penuriousness or jealousy. He was rather given to sneering at anyone who
  wrote about what he did not fully understand: I remember praising
  Whewell's History of the Inductive Sciences to him, and he answered, "Yes, I
  suppose that he has read the prefaces of very many books."

  I often saw Owen,1 whilst living in London, and admired him greatly, but was never
  able to understand his character and never became intimate with him. After the
  publication of the Origin of Species he became my

1 Richard Owen, 18041892. Anatomist F.R.S. 1834. First Hunterian professor of comparative
anatomy and physiology, 183656. Attacked Origin 1860 In Ed. Rev. K.C.B. 1884.--N. B.

[page] 105 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

bitter enemy, not owing to any quarrel between us, but as far as I could judge out
of jealousy at its success. Poor dear Falconer,1 who was a charming man, had a
very bad opinion of him, being convinced that he was not only ambitious, very
envious and arrogant, but untruthful and dishonest. His power of hatred was
certainly unsurpassed. When in former days I used to defend Owen, Falconer often
said, "You will find him out some day," and so it has proved.

At a somewhat later period I became very intimate with Hooker,2 who has been
one of my best friends throughout life. He is a delightfully pleasant companion and
most kindhearted. One can see at once that he is honourable to the backbone.
His intellect is very acute, and he has great power of generalisation. He is the most
untirable worker that I have ever seen, and will sit the whole day working with the
microscope, and be in the evening as fresh and pleasant as ever. He is in all ways
very impulsive and somewhat peppery in temper but the clouds pass away almost
immediately. He once sent me an almost savage letter from a cause which will
appear ludicrously small to an outsider, viz. because I maintained for a time the
silly notion that our coalplants had lived in shallow water in the sea. His
indignation was all the greater because he could not pretend that he should ever
have suspected that the Mangrove (and a

1 Hugh Falconer, 18081865. Palæontologist and botanist. Worked largely in India appointed to
British Museum 1844 to arrange Indian fossils.--N. B.

2 Joseph Dalton Hooker, 18171911. Botanist and traveller, increased knowledge of geographical
distribution, and supported the DarwinWallace theory of Origin of Species. F.R.S. 1847. Succeeded
his father as Director of Kew Gardens, 1865. WroteStudents' Flora of the British Isles and other
works. C.B. 1869 O.M. 1907, etc.--N. B.

[page] 106 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

few other marine plants which I named) had lived in the sea, if they had been
found only in a fossil state. On another occasion he was almost equally indignant
because I rejected with scorn the notion that a continent had formerly extended
between Australia and S. America. I have known hardly any man more lovable than
Hooker.

A little later I became intimate with Huxley. His mind is as quick as a flash of
lightning and as sharp as a razor. He is the best talker whom I have known. He
never writes and never says anything flat. From his conversation no one would
suppose that he could cut up his opponents in so trenchant a manner as he can do
and does do. He has been a most kind friend to me and would always take any

  trouble for me. He has been the mainstay in England of the principle of the gradual
  evolution of organic beings. Much splendid work as he has done in Zoology, he
  would have done far more, if his time had not been so largely consumed by official
  and literary work, and by his efforts to improve the education of the country. He
  would allow me to say anything to him: many years ago I thought that it was a pity
  that he attacked so many scientific men, although I believe that he was right in
  each particular case, and I said so to him. He denied the charge indignantly, and I
  answered that I was very glad to hear that I was mistaken. We had been talking
  about his welldeserved attacks on Owen, so I said after a time, "How well you
  have exposed Ehrenberg's blunders" he agreed and

[page] 107 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

added that it was necessary for science that such mistakes should be exposed.
Again after a time, I added: "Poor Agassiz has fared ill under your hands." Again I
added another name, and now his bright eyes flashed on me, and he burst out
laughing, anathematising me in some manner. He is a splendid man and has
worked well for the good of mankind.

I may here mention a few other eminent men whom I have occasionally seen, but I
have little to say about them worth saying. I felt a high reverence for Sir J.
Herschel,1 and was delighted to dine with him at his charming house at the C. of
Good Hope and afterwards at his London house. I saw him, also, on a few other
occasions. He never talked much, but every word which he uttered was worth
listening to. He was very shy and he often had a distressed expression. Lady
Caroline Bell, at whose house I dined at the C. of Good Hope, admired Herschel
much, but said that he always came into a room as if he knew that his hands were
dirty, and that he knew that his wife knew that they were dirty.

I once met at breakfast at Sir R. Murchison's house, the illustrious Humboldt, who
honoured me by expressing a wish to see me. I was a little disappointed with the
great man, but my anticipations probably were too high. I can remember nothing
distinctly about our interview, except that Humboldt was very cheerful and talked
much.

1 John Frederick William Herschel, 17921871, Astronomer. F.R.S. 1813. Wrote on astronomical
subjects, and on Light, Natural Philosophy, etc. Master of Mint, 185055. Created Baronet, 1838 --N.
B.

[page] 108 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

I used to call pretty often on Babbage1 and regularly attended his famous evening
parties. He was always worth listening to, but he was a disappointed and
discontented man and his expression was often or generally morose. I do not
believe that he was half as sullen as he pretended to be. One day he told me that
he had invented a plan by which all fires could be effectively stopped, but added,
--"I shan't publish it--damn them all, let all their houses be burnt." The all were
the inhabitants of London. Another day he told me that he had seen a pump on a
roadside in Italy, with a pious inscription on it to the effect that the owner had

  erected the pump for the love of God and his country, that the tired wayfarer might
  drink. This led Babbage to examine the pump closely and he soon discovered that
  every time that a wayfarer pumped some water for himself, he pumped a larger
  quantity into the owner's house. Babbage then added--"There is only one thing
  which I hate more than piety, and that is patriotism." But I believe that his bark
  was much worse than his bite.

Herbert Spencer's conversation seemed to me very interesting, but I did not like
him particularly, and did not feel that I could easily have become intimate with
him. I think that he was extremely egotistical. After reading any of his books, I
generally feel enthusiastic admiration for his transcendent talents, and have often
wondered whether in the distant future he would rank

1 Charles Babbage, 17921871. F.R.S. 1816. Helped to found Astronomical Society 1820, and
Statistical Society 1834. Mathematical and mechanical but his inventions often proved abortive.--N.
B.

[page] 109 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

with such great men as Descartes, Leibnitz, etc., about whom, however, I know
very little. Nevertheless I am not conscious of having profited in my own work by
Spencer's writings. His deductive manner of treating every subject is wholly
opposed to my frame of mind. His conclusions never convince me: and over and
over again I have said to myself, after reading one of his discussions,--"Here would
be a fine subject for halfadozen years' work." His fundamental generalisations
(which have been compared in importance by some persons with Newton's laws!)--
which I daresay may be very valuable under a philosophical point of view, are of
such a nature that they do not seem to me to be of any strictly scientific use. They
partake more of the nature of definitions than of laws of nature. They do not aid
one in predicting what will happen in any particular case. Anyhow they have not
been of any use to me.

Speaking of H. Spencer reminds me of Buckle,1whom I once met at Hensleigh
Wedgwood's. I was very glad to learn from him his system of collecting facts. He
told me that he bought all the books which he read, and made a full index to each,
of the facts which he thought might prove serviceable to him, and that he could
always remember in what book he had read anything, for his memory was
wonderful. I then asked him how at first he could judge what facts would be
serviceable and he answered that he did not know, but that a sort of instinct
guided him. From this habit of making indices, he was

1 Henry Thomas Buckle, 18211862. Selfeducated historian.

[page] 110 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

enabled to give the astonishing number of references on all sorts of subjects, which

may be found in hisHistory of Civilisation. This book I thought most interesting and

read it twice but I doubt whether his generalisations are worth anything. H.

Spencer told me that he had never read a line of it! Buckle was a great talker, and I

listened to him without saying hardly a word, nor indeed could I have done so, for
  he left no gaps. When Effie1 began to sing, I jumped up and said that I must listen
  to her. This I suppose offended him, for after I had moved away, he turned round
  to a friend, and said (as was overheard by my brother), "Well Mr Darwin's books
  are much better than his conversation." What he really meant was that I did not
  properly appreciate his conversation.

  Of other great literary men, I once met Sydney Smith at Dean Milman's house.
  There was something inexplicably amusing in every word which he uttered.
  Perhaps this was partly due to the expectation of being amused. He was talking
  about Lady Cork, who was then extremely old. This was the lady, who, as he said,
  was once so much affected by one of his charity sermons, that she borrowed a
  guinea from a friend to put into the Plate. He now said, "It is generally believed
  that my dear old friend Lady Cork has been overlooked" and he said this in such a
  manner that no one could for a moment doubt that he meant that his dear old
  friend had been overlooked by the devil. How he managed to express this I know
  not.

  1 Euphemia Wedgwood, married T. H. Farrer in 1873 as second wife.--N. B.

  [page break]

                         Charles Darwin aged 43, with his eldest child, William   60/145

          From a daguerrotype in the possession of Sir Charles Darwin, Cambridge


[page] 111 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

I likewise once met Macaulay at Lord Stanhope's (the historian's) house,1 and as
there was only one other man at dinner, I had a grand opportunity of hearing him
converse, and he was very agreeable. He did not talk at all too much nor indeed
could such a man talk too much, as long as he allowed others to turn the stream of
his conversation, and this he did allow.

Lord Stanhope once gave me a curious little proof of the accuracy and fulness of
Macaulay's memory: many historians used often to meet at Lord Stanhope's house,
and, in discussing various subjects, they would sometimes differ from Macaulay,
and formerly they often referred to some book to see who was right but latterly,
as Lord Stanhope noticed, no historian ever took this trouble, and whatever
Macaulay said was final.

On another occasion I met at Ld. Stanhope's house one of his parties of historians
and other literary men, and amongst them were Motley2 and Grote.3After luncheon
I walked about Chevening Park for nearly an hour with Grote, and was much
interested by his conversation and pleased by the simplicity and absence of all
pretension in his manners.

I met another set of great men at breakfast at Ld. Stanhope's house in London.
After breakfast was quite

1 Philip Henry Stanhope, 18051875. Fifth Earl of Stanhope historian, author, Conservative M.P.
undersecretary for Foreign Affairs influential in forming National Portrait Gallery, etc.--N. B.

2 John Lothrop Motley, 18141877. Born in Dorchester, Mass., but lived much in Europe, as the
materials for his historical work were not available in U.S.A. Published History of the Dutch
Republic in 1856.--N. B.

3 George Grote, 17941871. Historian an original founder of London University. F.R.S. 1857. Vice
Chancellor Lon. Univ. 1862.--N. B.

T.A.C.D. II

[page] 112 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

over, Monckton Milnes1 (Ld. Houghton now) walked in, and after looking round,
exclaimed--(justifying Sidney Smith's nickname of "the cool of the evening")
--"Well, I declare, you are all very premature."

Long ago I dined occasionally with the old Earl Stanhope, the father of the
historian. I have heard that his father, the democratic earl, wellknown at the time
of the French Revolution, had his son educated as a blacksmith, as he declared that
every man ought to know some trade. The old Earl, whom I knew, was a strange
man, but what little I saw of him, I liked much. He was frank, genial, and pleasant.
He had stronglymarked features, with a brown complexion, and his clothes, when

  I saw him, were all brown. He seemed to believe in everything which was to others
  utterly incredible. He said one day to me, "Why don't you give up your fiddlefaddle
  of geology and zoology, and turn to the occult sciences?" The historian (then Ld.
  Mahon) seemed shocked at such a speech to me, and his charming wife much
  amused.

The last man whom I will mention is Carlyle, seen by me several times at my
brother's house and two or three times at my own house. His talk was very racy
and interesting, just like his writings, but he sometimes went on too long on the
same subject. I remember a funny dinner at my brother's, where, amongst a few
others, were Babbage and Lyell, both of whom liked to

1 Richard Monckton Milnes, 18091885. Intimate friend of Tennyson, Hallam and Thackeray.
Conservative M.P. 1837 became a Liberal on Peel's conversion to Free Trade, and supported
reforms. Created Baron Houghton 1863. Author of various works.--N. B.

[page] 113 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

talk. Carlyle, however, silenced every one by haranguing during the whole dinner
on the advantages of silence. After dinner, Babbage, in his grimmest manner,
thanked Carlyle for his very interesting Lecture on Silence.

Carlyle sneered at almost every one. One day in my house he called
Grote's History "a fetid quagmire, with nothing spiritual about it." I always thought,
until his Reminiscences appeared, that his sneers were partly jokes, but this now
seems rather doubtful. His expression was that of a depressed, almost despondent,
yet benevolent man and it is notorious how heartily he laughed. I believe that his
benevolence was real, though stained by not a little jealousy. No one can doubt
about his extraordinary power of drawing vivid pictures of things and men--far
more vivid, as it appears to me, than any drawn by Macaulay. Whether his pictures
of men were true ones is another question.

He has been allpowerful in impressing some grand moral truths on the minds of
men. On the other hand, his views about slavery were revolting. In his eyes might
was right. His mind seemed to me a very narrow one even if all branches of
science, which he despised, are excluded. It is astonishing to me that Kingsley
should have spoken of him as a man well fitted to advance science. He laughed to
scorn the idea that a mathematician, such as Whewell, could judge, as I
maintained he could, of Goethe's views on light. He thought it a most ridiculous
thing that any one should care whether a glacier moved a little quicker or a little

[page] 114 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

slower, or moved at all. As far as I could judge, I never met a man with a mind so
ill adapted for scientific research.

Whilst living in London, I attended as regularly as I could the meetings of several

scientific societies, and acted as secretary to the Geological Society. But such

attendance, and ordinary society, suited my health so badly that we resolved to live

in the country, which we both preferred and have never repented of.1

AFTER SEVERAL fruitless searches in Surrey and elsewhere, we found this house
and purchased it. I was pleased with the diversified appearance of the vegetation
proper to a chalk district, and so unlike what I had been accustomed to in the
Midland counties and still more pleased with the extreme quietness and rusticity of
the place. It is not, however, quite so retired a place as a writer in a German
periodical makes it, who says that my house can be approached only by a mule
track! Our fixing ourselves here has answered admirably in one way which we did
not anticipate, namely, by being very convenient for frequent visits from our
children, who

1 End of Reminiscences, Apl. 1881, beginning p. 99.--N. B.

[page] 115 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

never miss an opportunity of doing so when they can.

Few persons can have lived a more retired life than we have done. Besides short
visits to the houses of relations, and occasionally to the seaside or elsewhere, we
have gone nowhere. During the first part of our residence we went a little into
society, and received a few friends here but my health almost always suffered
from the excitement, violent shivering and vomiting attacks being thus brought on.
I have therefore been compelled for many years to give up all dinnerparties and
this has been somewhat of a deprivation to me, as such parties always put me into
high spirits. From the same cause I have been able to invite here very few scientific
acquaintances. Whilst I was young and strong I was capable of very warm
attachments, but of late years, though I still have very friendly feelings towards
many persons, I have lost the power of becoming deeply attached to anyone, not
even so deeply to my good and dear friends Hooker and Huxley, as I should
formerly have been. As far as I can judge this grievous loss of feeling has gradually
crept over me, from the expectation of much distress afterwards from exhaustion
having become firmly associated in my mind with seeing and talking with anyone
for an hour, except my wife and children.

My chief enjoyment and sole employment throughout life has been scientific work
and the excitement from such work makes me for the time forget, or drives quite
away, my daily discomfort. I have therefore nothing to record during the rest of my
life, except the publication

[page] 116 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

of my several books. Perhaps a few details how they arose may be worth giving.

My Several Publications

IN THE early part of 1844, my observations on theVolcanic Islands visited during

the voyage of theBeagle were published. In 1845, I took much pains in correcting a

new edition of my Journal of Researches, which was originally published in 1839 as

part of FitzRoy's work. The success of this my first literary child always tickles my
  vanity more than that of any of my other books. Even to this day it sells steadily in
  England and the United States, and has been translated for the second time into
  German, and into French and other languages. This success of a book of travels,
  especially of a scientific one, so many years after its first publication, is surprising.
  Ten thousand copies have now been sold in England of the second edition. In 1846
  my Geological Observations on South America were published. I record in a little
  diary, which I have always kept, that my three geological books (Coral
  Reefs included) consumed four and a half years' steady work "and now it is ten
  years since my return to England. How much time have I lost by illness?" I have
  nothing to say about these three books except that to my surprise new editions
  have lately been called for.1

1 Geological Observations, 2nd Edit. 1876. Coral Reefs, 2nd Edit. 1874.--F. D.

[page] 117 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

In October, 1846, I began to work on Cirripedia1. When on the coast of Chile, I
found a most curious form, which burrowed into the shells of Concholepas, and
which differed so much from all other Cirripedes that I had to form a new sub
order for its sole reception. Lately an allied burrowing genus has been found on the
shores of Portugal. To understand the structure of my new Cirripede I had to
examine and dissect many of the common forms: and this gradually led me on to
take up the whole group. I worked steadily on the subject for the next eight years,
and ultimately published two thick volumes,2describing all the known living
species, and two thin quartos on the extinct species. I do not doubt that Sir E.
Lytton Bulwer had me in his mind when he introduces in one of his novels a
Professor Long, who had written two huge volumes on Limpets.

Although I was employed during eight years on this work, yet I record in my diary
that about two years out of this time was lost by illness. On this account I went in
1848 for some months to Malvern for hydropathic treatment, which did me much
good, so that on my return home I was able to resume work. So much was I out of
health that when my dear father died on November 13th, 1847,3 I was unable to
attend his funeral or to act as one of his executors.

My work on the Cirripedia possesses, I think, con

1 Barnacles.--N. B.

2 Published by the Ray Society.--F. D.

3 The date of Dr. Robert's death is given as 1848 in Life and Letters. In the MS. the date is clearly
written 1847--a curious error.--N. B.

[page] 118 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

siderable value, as besides describing several new and remarkable forms, I made

out the homologies of the various parts--I discovered the cementing apparatus,

though I blundered dreadfully about the cement glands--and lastly I proved the

existence in certain genera of minute males complemental to and parasitic on the

  hermaphrodites. This latter discovery has at last been fully confirmed though at
  one time a German writer was pleased to attribute the whole account to my fertile
  imagination. The Cirripedes form a highly varying and difficult group of species to
  class and my work was of considerable use to me, when I had to discuss in
  the Origin of Species the principles of a natural classification. Nevertheless, I doubt
  whether the work was worth the consumption of so much time.

  From September 1854 onwards I devoted all my time to arranging my huge pile of
  notes, to observing, and experimenting, in relation to the transmutation of species.
  During the voyage of the Beagle I had been deeply impressed by discovering in the
  Pampean formation great fossil animals covered with armour like that on the
  existing armadillos secondly, by the manner in which closely allied animals replace
  one another in proceeding southwards over the Continent and thirdly, by the
  South American character of most of the productions of the Galapagos archipelago,
  and more especially by the manner in which they differ slightly on each island of
  the group none of these islands appearing to be very ancient in a geological
  sense.

  It was evident that such facts as these, as well as many

  [page] 119 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  others, could be explained on the supposition that species gradually become
  modified and the subject haunted me. But it was equally evident that neither the
  action of the surrounding conditions, nor the will of the organisms (especially in the
  case of plants), could account for the innumerable cases in which organisms of
  every kind are beautifully adapted to their habits of life,--for instance, a
  woodpecker or treefrog to climb trees, or a seed for dispersal by hooks or plumes.
  I had always been much struck by such adaptations, and until these could be
  explained it seemed to me almost useless to endeavour to prove by indirect
  evidence that species have been modified.

  After my return to England it appeared to me that by following the example of Lyell
  in Geology, and by collecting all facts which bore in any way on the variation of
  animals and plants under domestication and nature, some light might perhaps be
  thrown on the whole subject. My first notebook was opened in July 1837. I worked
  on true Baconian principles, and without any theory collected facts on a wholesale
  scale, more especially with respect to domesticated productions, by printed
  enquiries, by conversation with skilful breeders and gardeners, and by extensive
  reading. When I see the list of books of all kinds which I read and abstracted,
  including whole series of Journals and Transactions, I am surprised at my industry.
  I soon perceived that selection was the keystone of man's success in making useful
  races of animals and plants. But how selection could be applied to organisms living
  in a

  [page] 120 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  state of nature remained for some time a mystery to me.


  In October 1838, that is, fifteen months after I had begun my systematic enquiry, I
  happened to read for amusement Malthus on Population, and being well prepared
  to appreciate the struggle for existence which everywhere goes on from long
  continued observation of the habits of animals and plants, it at once struck me that
  under these circumstances favourable variations would tend to be preserved, and
  unfavourable ones to be destroyed. The result of this would be the formation of
  new species. Here, then, I had at last got a theory by which to work but I was so
  anxious to avoid prejudice, that I determined not for some time to write even the
  briefest sketch of it. In June 1842 I first allowed myself the satisfaction of writing a
  very brief abstractof my theory in pencil in 35 pages and this was enlarged during
  the summer of 1844 into one of 230 pages, which I had fairly copied out and still
  possess.

But at that time I overlooked one problem of great importance and it is
astonishing to me, except on the principle of Columbus and his egg, how I could
have overlooked it and its solution. This problem is the tendency in organic beings
descended from the same stock to diverge in character as they become modified.
That they have diverged greatly is obvious from the manner in which species of all
kinds can be classed under genera, genera under families, families under sub
orders, and so forth and I can remember the very spot in the road, whilst in my
carriage, when to my joy the

[page] 121 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

solution occurred to me and this was long after I had come to Down. The solution,
as I believe, is that the modified offspring of all dominant and increasing forms
tend to become adapted to many and highly diversified places in the economy of
nature.

Early in 1856 Lyell advised me to write out my views pretty fully, and I began at
once to do so on a scale three or four times as extensive as that which was
afterwards followed in my Origin of Species yet it was only an abstract of the
materials which I had collected, and I got through about half the work on this
scale. But my plans were overthrown, for early in the summer of 1858 Mr
Wallace,1 who was then in the Malay archipelago, sent me an essay On the
Tendency of Varieties to depart indefinitely from the Original Type and this essay
contained exactly the same theory as mine. Mr Wallace expressed the wish that if I
thought well of his essay, I should send it to Lyell for perusal.

The circumstances under which I consented at the request of Lyell and Hooker to
allow of an extract from my MS., together with a letter to Asa Gray, dated
September 5, 1857, to be published at the same time with Wallace's Essay, are
given in theJournal of the Proceedings of the Linnean Society, 1858, p. 45. I was at
first very unwilling to consent, as I thought Mr Wallace might consider my doing so
unjustifiable, for I did not then know how generous and noble was his disposition.
The extract from my MS. and the letter to Asa Gray

  1Alfred Russell Wallace, 18231913, naturalist and traveller, author of various works on  66/145
  geographical distribution and evolution. F.R.S. 1893.--N. B.


  [page] 122 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

had neither been intended for publication, and were badly written. Mr Wallace's
essay, on the other hand, was admirably expressed and quite clear. Nevertheless,
our joint productions excited very little attention, and the only published notice of
them which I can remember was by Professor Haughton of Dublin, whose verdict
was that all that was new in them was false, and what was true was old. This
shows how necessary it is that any new view should be explained at considerable
length in order to arouse public attention.

In September 1858 I set to work by the strong advice of Lyell and Hooker to
prepare a volume on the transmutation of species, but was often interrupted by ill
health, and short visits to Dr. Lane's delightful hydropathic establishment at Moor
Park. I abstracted the MS. begun on a much larger scale in 1856, and completed
the volume on the same reduced scale. It cost me thirteen months and ten days'
hard labour. It was published under the title of the Origin of Species, in November
1859. Though considerably added to and corrected in the later editions, it has
remained substantially the same book.

It is no doubt the chief work of my life. It was from the first highly successful. The
first small edition of 1250 copies was sold on the day of publication, and a second
edition of 3000 copies soon afterwards. Sixteen thousand copies have now (1876)
been sold in England and considering how stiff a book it is, this is a large sale. It
has been translated into almost every European tongue, even into such languages
as Spanish, Bohemian,

[page] 123 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Polish, and Russian. It has also, according to Miss Bird, been translated into
Japanese, and is there much studied.1 Even an essay in Hebrew has appeared on
it, showing that the theory is contained in the Old Testament! The reviews were
very numerous for a time I collected all that appeared on the Origin and on my
related books, and these amount (excluding newspaper reviews) to 265 but after
a time I gave up the attempt in despair. Many separate essays and books on the
subject have appeared and in Germany a catalogue or bibliography on
"Darwinismus" has appeared every year or two.

The success of the Origin may, I think, be attributed in large part to my having
long before written two condensed sketches, and to my having finally abstracted a
much larger manuscript, which was itself an abstract. By this means I was enabled
to select the more striking facts and conclusions. I had, also, during many years,
followed a golden rule, namely, that whenever a published fact, a new observation
or thought came across me, which was opposed to my general results, to make a
memorandum of it without fail and at once for I had found by experience that
such facts and thoughts were far more apt to escape from the memory than
favourable ones. Owing to this habit, very few objections were raised against my
views which I had not at least noticed and attempted to answer.

It has sometimes been said that the success of theOrigin proved "that the subject


  was in the air," or "that

1 Miss Bird is mistaken, as I learn from Professor Mitsukuri.--F. D.

[page] 124 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

men's minds were prepared for it." I do not think that this is strictly true, for I
occasionally sounded not a few naturalists, and never happened to come across a
single one who seemed to doubt about the permanence of species. Even Lyell and
Hooker, though they would listen with interest to me, never seemed to agree. I
tried once or twice to explain to able men what I meant by natural selection, but
signally failed. What I believe was strictly true is that innumerable wellobserved
facts were stored in the minds of naturalists, ready to take their proper places as
soon as any theory which would receive them was sufficiently explained.1 Another
element in the success of the book was its moderate size and this I owe to the
appearance of Mr Wallace's essay had I published on the scale in which I began to
write in 1856, the book would have been four or five times as large as the Origin,
and very few would have had the patience to read it.

I gained much by my delay in publishing from about 1839, when the theory was
clearly conceived, to 1859 and I lost nothing by it, for I cared very little whether
men attributed most originality to me or Wallace and his essay no doubt aided in
the reception of the theory. I was forestalled in only one important point, which my
vanity has always made me regret, namely, the explanation by means of the
Glacial period of the presence of the same species of plants and of some few
animals on distant mountain summits and in the arctic regions.

1 See Appendix, Part 1, on Charles and Erasmus Darwin, p. 149. Charles's doubts as to whether "the
subject was in the air" are there discussed.--N. B.

[page] 125 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

This view pleased me so much that I wrote it out in extenso, and it was read by
Hooker some years before E. Forbes published his celebrated memoir on the
subject.1 In the very few points in which we differed, I still think that I was in the
right. I have never, of course, alluded in print to my having independently worked
out this view.

Hardly any point gave me so much satisfaction when I was at work on the Origin,
as the explanation of the wide difference in many classes between the embryo and
the adult animal, and of the close resemblance of the embryos within the same
class. No notice of this point was taken, as far as I remember, in the early reviews
of the Origin, and I recollect expressing my surprise on this head in a letter to Asa
Gray. Within late years several reviewers have given the whole credit of the idea to
Fritz Muller and Häckel, who undoubtedly have worked it out much more fully, and
in some respects more correctly than I did. I had materials for a whole chapter on
the subject, and I ought to have made the discussion longer for it is clear that I
failed to impress my readers and he who succeeds in doing so deserves, in my
opinion, all the credit.


  This leads me to remark that I have almost always been treated honestly by my
  reviewers, passing over those without scientific knowledge as not worthy of notice.
  My views have often been grossly misrepresented, bitterly opposed and ridiculed,
  but this has been generally done, as I believe, in good faith. I must,

  1 Geol. Survey Mem, 1846.--F. D.

  [page] 126 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  however, except Mr Mivart,1 who as an American expressed it in a letter has acted
  towards me "like a pettifogger", or as Huxley has said "like an Old Bailey lawyer."
  On the whole I do not doubt that my works have been over and over again greatly
  overpraised. I rejoice that I have avoided controversies, and this I owe to Lyell,
  who many years ago, in reference to my geological works, strongly advised me
  never to get entangled in a controversy, as it rarely did any good and caused a
  miserable loss of time and temper.

  Whenever2 I have found out that I have blundered, or that my work has been
  imperfect, and when I have been contemptuously criticised, and even when I have
  been overpraised, so that I have felt mortified, it has been my greatest comfort to
  say hundreds of times to myself that "I have worked as hard and as well as I could,
  and no man can do more than this." I remember when in Good Success Bay, in
  Tierra del Fuego, thinking, (and I believe that I wrote home to the effect) that I
  could not employ my life better than in adding a little to natural science. This I
  have done to the best of my abilities, and critics may say what they like, but they
  cannot destroy this conviction.

  During the two last months of the year 1859 I was fully occupied in preparing a
  second edition of theOrigin, and by an enormous correspondence. On January 7th,
  1860, I began arranging my notes for my work on

  1 St. George Jackson Mivart, 18271900, biologist. Became a Roman Catholic, but later repudiated
  ecclesiastical authority. An evolutionist, but an opponent of Charles Darwin. F.R.S. 1869.--N.B.

  2 This paragraph added, probably in 1881.--N.B.

  [page break]

Charles Darwin aged 72, on the verandah at Down, ready for his customary stroll
                                                 to the Sandwalk

[page break]

[page] 127 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

the Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication but it was not published
until the beginning of 1868 the delay having been caused partly by frequent
illnesses, one of which lasted seven months, and partly by having been tempted to
publish on other subjects which at the time interested me more.

On May 15th, 1862, my little book on the Fertilisation of Orchids, which cost me

ten months' work, was published: most of the facts had been slowly accumulated

during several previous years. During the summer of 1839, and, I believe, during

the previous summer, I was led to attend to the crossfertilisation of flowers by the

aid of insects, from having come to the conclusion in my speculations on the origin

of species, that crossing played an important part in keeping specific forms

constant. I attended to the subject more or less during every subsequent summer

and my interest in it was greatly enhanced by having procured and read in

November 1841, through the advice of Robert Brown, a copy of C. K.

  Sprengel's1 wonderful book, Das entdeckte Geheimnis der Natur. For some years
  before 1862 I had specially attended to the fertilisation of our British orchids and
  it seemed to me the best plan to prepare as complete a treatise on this group of
  plants as well as I could, rather than to utilise the great mass of matter which I
  had slowly collected with respect to other plants.

My resolve proved a wise one for since the appearance of my book, a surprising
number of papers and

1 Christian Konrad Sprengel, 17501816. Schoolmaster at Spandau.--N B.

T.A.C.D. I

[page] 128 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

separate works on the fertilisation of all kinds of flowers have appeared and these
are far better done than I could possibly have effected. The merits of poor old
Sprengel, so long overlooked, are now fully recognised many years after his death.

During this same year I published in the Journal of the Linnean Society, a paper On
the Two Forms, or Dimorphic Condition of Primula, and during the next five years,
five other papers on dimorphic and trimorphic plants. I do not think anything in my
scientific life has given me so much satisfaction as making out the meaning of the
structure of these plants. I had noticed in 1838 or 1839 the dimorphism of Linum
flavum, and had at first thought that it was merely a case of unmeaning variability.
But on examining the common species of Primula, I found that the two forms were
much too regular and constant to be thus viewed. I therefore became almost
convinced that the common cowslip and primrose were on the highroad to become
dioecious--that the short pistil in the one form, and the short stamens in the other
form were tending towards abortion. The plants were therefore subjected under
this point of view to trial but as soon as the flowers with short pistils fertilised with
pollen from the short stamens, were found to yield more seeds than any other of
the four possible unions, the abortiontheory was knocked on the head. After some
additional experiment, it became evident that the two forms, though both were
perfect hermaphrodites, bore almost the same relation to one another as do the
two sexes of an ordinary animal. With Lythrum we

[page] 129 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

have the still more wonderful case of three forms standing in a similar relation to
one another. I afterwards found that the offspring from the union of two plants
belonging to the same forms presented a close and curious analogy with hybrids
from the union of two distinct species.

In the autumn of 1864 I finished a long paper onClimbing Plants, and sent it to the
Linnean Society. The writing of this paper cost me four months: but I was so unwell
when I received the proofsheets that I was forced to leave them very badly and
often obscurely expressed. The paper was little noticed, but when in 1875 it was
corrected and published as aseparate book it sold well. I was led to take up this
  subject by reading a short paper by Asa Gray, published in 1858, on the
  movements of the tendrils of a Cucurbitacean plant. He sent me seeds, and on
  raising some plants I was so much fascinated and perplexed by the revolving
  movements of the tendrils and stems, which movements are really very simple,
  though appearing at first very complex, that I procured various other kinds of
  Climbing Plants, and studied the whole subject. I was all the more attracted to it,
  from not being at all satisfied with the explanation which Henslow gave us in his
  Lectures, about Twining plants, namely, that they had a natural tendency to grow
  up in a spire. This explanation proved quite erroneous. Some of the adaptations
  displayed by climbing plants are as beautiful as those by Orchids for ensuring
  crossfertilisation.

My Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication

[page] 130 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

was begun, as already stated, in the beginning of 1860, but was not published until
the beginning of 1868. It is a big book, and cost me four years and two months'
hard labour. It gives all my observations and an immense number of facts collected
from various sources, about our domestic productions. In the second volume the
causes and laws of variation, inheritance, &c., are discussed, as far as our present
state of knowledge permits. Towards the end of the work I give my well abused
hypothesis of Pangenesis. An unverified hypothesis is of little or no value. But if any
one should hereafter be led to make observations by which some such hypothesis
could be established, I shall have done good service, as an astonishing number of
isolated facts can thus be connected together and rendered intelligible. In 1875
a second and largely corrected edition, which cost me a good deal of labour, was
brought out.

My Descent of Man was published in Feb. 1871. As soon as I had become, in the
year 1837 or 1838, convinced that species were mutable productions, I could not
avoid the belief that man must come under the same law. Accordingly I collected
notes on the subject for my own satisfaction, and not for a long time with any
intention of publishing. Although in theOrigin of Species, the derivation of any
particular species is never discussed, yet I thought it best, in order that no
honourable man should accuse me of concealing my views, to add that by the work
in question "light would be thrown on the origin of man and his history." It would
have been useless and injurious to the success of the

[page] 131 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

book to have paraded without giving any evidence my conviction with respect to
his origin.

But when I found that many naturalists fully accepted the doctrine of the evolution
of species, it seemed to me advisable to work up such notes as I possessed and to
publish a special treatise on the origin of man. I was the more glad to do so, as it
gave me an opportunity of fully discussing sexual selection,--a subject which had
always greatly interested me. This subject, and that of the variation of our

  domestic productions, together with the causes and laws of variation, inheritance,
  etc., and the intercrossing of Plants, are the sole subjects which I have been able
  to write about in full, so as to use all the materials which I had collected.
  The Descent of Man took me three years to write, but then as usual some of this
  time was lost by ill health, and some was consumed by preparing new editions and
  other minor works. A second and largely corrected edition of the Descentappeared
  in 1874.

My book on the Expression of the Emotions in Men and Animals was published in
the autumn of 1872. I had intended to give only a chapter on the subject in
the Descent of Man, but as soon as I began to put my notes together, I saw that it
would require a separate Treatise.

My first child was born on December 27th, 1839, and I at once commenced to
make notes on the first dawn of the various expressions which he exhibited, for I
felt convinced, even at this early period, that the most complex and fine shades of
expression must all have had

[page] 132 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

a gradual and natural origin. During the summer of the following year, 1840, I read
Sir C. Bell's1admirable work on Expression, and this greatly increased the interest
which I felt in the subject, though I could not at all agree with his belief that
various muscles had been specially created for the sake of expression. From this
time forward I occasionally attended to the subject, both with respect to man and
our domesticated animals. My book sold largely 5267 copies having been disposed
of on the day of publication.

In the summer of 1860 I was idling and resting near Hartfield, where two species
of Drosera abound and I noticed that numerous insects had been entrapped by the
leaves. I carried home some plants, and on giving them insects saw the
movements of the tentacles, and this made me think it probable that the insects
were caught for some special purpose. Fortunately a crucial test occurred to me,
that of placing a large number of leaves in various nitrogenous and non
nitrogenous fluids of equal density and as soon as I found that the former alone
excited energetic movements, it was obvious that here was a fine new field for
investigation.

During subsequent years, whenever I had leisure, I pursued my experiments, and
my book onInsectivorous Plants was published July 1875,--that is sixteen years
after my first observations. The delay in this case, as with all my other books, has
been a great advantage to me for a man after a long interval can criticise his own

1 Charles Bell, 17741842. Educated Edinburgh, F.C.S. Ed. 1799. Prof. of Surgery, Ed. 1847.
Knighted R.S. medallist 1829 wrote on the nervous system and Anatomy of Expression, etc.--N.B.

[page] 133 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

work, almost as well as if it were that of another person. The fact that a plant
should secrete, when properly excited, a fluid containing an acid and ferment,

  closely analogous to the digestive fluid of an animal, was certainly a remarkable
  discovery.

  During this autumn of 1876 I shall publish on theEffects of Cross and Self
  Fertilisation in the Vegetable Kingdom. This book will form a complement to that on
  the Fertilisation of Orchids, in which I showed how perfect were the means for
  crossfertilisation, and here I shall show how important are the results. I was led to
  make, during eleven years, the numerous experiments recorded in this volume, by
  a mere accidental observation and indeed it required the accident to be repeated
  before my attention was thoroughly aroused to the remarkable fact that seedlings
  of selffertilised parentage are inferior, even in the first generation, in height and
  vigour to seedlings of crossfertilised parentage. I hope also to republish a revised
  edition of my book on Orchids, and hereafter my papers on dimorphic and
  trimorphic plants, together with some additional observations on allied points which
  I never have had time to arrange. My strength will then probably be exhausted,
  and I shall be ready to exclaim "Nunc dimittis."

  The Effects of Cross and SelfFertilisation1 was published in the autumn of 1876
  and the results there arrived at explain, as I believe, the endless and wonderful

  1 This long addendum added May 1st, 1881, to ..."old geological thoughts.", p. 136.--N.B.

  [page] 134 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  contrivances for the transportal of pollen from one plant to another of the same
  species. I now believe, however, chiefly from the observations of Hermann Müller,
  that I ought to have insisted more strongly than I did on the many adaptations for
  selffertilisation though I was well aware of many such adaptations. A much
  enlarged edition of myFertilisation of Orchids was published in 1877.

  In this same year The Different Forms of Flowers, etc., appeared, and in 1880 a
  second edition. This book consists chiefly of the several papers on heterostyled
  flowers, originally published by the Linnean Society, corrected, with much new
  matter added, together with observations on some other cases in which the same
  plant bears two kinds of flowers. As before remarked, no little discovery of mine
  ever gave me so much pleasure as the making out the meaning of heterostyled
  flowers. The results of crossing such flowers in an illegitimate manner, I believe to
  be very important as bearing on the sterility of hybrids although these results
  have been noticed by only a few persons.

  In 1879, I had a translation of Dr. Ernst Krause's Life of Erasmus Darwin published,
  and I added a sketch of his character and habits from materials in my possession.
  Many persons have been much interested by this little life, and I am surprised that
  only 800 or 900 copies were sold. Owing to my having accidentally omitted to
  mention that Dr. Krause had enlarged and corrected his article in German before it
  was translated, Mr Samuel Butler abused me with almost insane virulence. How

  [page] 135 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  I offended him so bitterly, I have never been able to understand. The subject gave
  rise to some controversy in the Athenæum newspaper and Nature. I laid all the
  documents before some good judges, viz. Huxley, Leslie Stephen, Litchfield,1 etc.,
  and they were all unanimous that the attack was so baseless that it did not deserve
  any public answer for I had already expressed privately my regret to Mr. Butler for
  my accidental omission. Huxley consoled me by quoting some German lines from
  Goethe, who had been attacked by someone, to the effect "that every Whale has
  its Louse."2

In 1880 I published, with Frank's assistance, ourPower of Movement in Plants. This
was a tough piece of work. The book bears somewhat the same relation to my little
book on Climbing Plants, which CrossFertilisation did to the Fertilisation of
Orchids for in accordance with the principles of evolution it was impossible to
account for climbing plants having been developed in so many widely different
groups, unless all kinds of plants possess some slight power of movement of an
analogous kind. This I proved to be the case, and I was further led to a rather wide
generalisation, viz., that the great and important classes of movements, excited by
light, the attraction of gravity, &c., are all modified forms of the fundamental
movement of circumnutation. It has always pleased me to exalt plants in the scale
of organised beings and I therefore felt an especial pleasure in

1 His soninlaw, R. B. Litchfield.--N. B.

2 See Appendix. Part ii. p. 167. On the DarwinButler controversy, with unpublished documents,
including Huxley's letter in its entirety.--N. B.

[page] 136 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

showing how many and what admirably well adapted movements the tip of a root
possesses.

I have now (May 1, 1881) sent to the printers the MS. of a little book on The
Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of Worms. This is a subject of but
small importance and I know not whether it will interest any readers,1 but it has
interested me. It is the completion of a short paper read before the Geological
Society more than forty years ago, and has revived old geological thoughts.2

I have now mentioned all the books which I have published, and these have been
the milestones in my life, so that little remains to be said. I am not conscious of
any change in my mind during the last thirty years, excepting in one point
presently to be mentioned nor indeed could any change have been expected
unless one of general deterioration. But my father lived to his eightythird year
with his mind as lively as ever it was, and all his faculties undimmed and I hope
that I may die before my mind fails to a sensible extent. I think that I have become
a little more skilful in guessing right explanations and in devising experimental
tests but this may probably be the result of mere practice, and of a larger store of
knowledge. I have as much difficulty as ever in expressing myself clearly and
concisely and this difficulty has caused me a very great loss of time but it has
had the compensating advantage of

  1 Between November 1881 and February 1884, 8,500 copies were sold.--F.D.
  2 End of 1881 Addendum. Beginning "The Effect of Cross...", p. 133. --N.B.

  [page] 137 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

forcing me to think long and intently about every sentence, and thus I have been
often led to see errors in reasoning and in my own observations or those of others.

There seems to be a sort of fatality in my mind leading me to put at first my
statement and proposition in a wrong or awkward form. Formerly I used to think
about my sentences before writing them down but for several years I have found
that it saves time to scribble in a vile hand whole pages as quickly as I possibly
can, contracting half the words and then correct deliberately. Sentences thus
scribbled down are often better ones than I could have written deliberately.

Having said this much about my manner of writing, I will add that with my larger
books I spend a good deal of time over the general arrangement of the matter. I
first make the rudest outline in two or three pages, and then a larger one in several
pages, a few words or one word standing for a whole discussion or series of facts.
Each of these headings is again enlarged and often transformed before I begin to
write in extenso. As in several of my books facts observed by others have been
very extensively used, and as I have always had several quite distinct subjects in
hand at the same time, I may mention that I keep from thirty to forty large
portfolios, in cabinets with labelled shelves, into which I can at once put a detached
reference or memorandum. I have bought many books and at their ends I make an
index of all the facts that concern my work or, if the book is

[page] 138 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

not my own, write out a separate abstract, and of such abstracts I have a large
drawer full. Before beginning on any subject I look to all the short indexes and
make a general and classified index, and by taking the one or more proper
portfolios I have all the information collected during my life ready for use.

I have said that in one respect my mind has changed during the last twenty or
thirty years. Up to the age of thirty, or beyond it, poetry of many kinds, such as the
works of Milton, Gray, Byron, Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Shelley, gave me great
pleasure, and even as a schoolboy I took intense delight in Shakespeare, especially
in the historical plays. I have also said that formerly pictures gave me considerable,
and music very great delight. But now for many years I cannot endure to read a
line of poetry: I have tried lately to read Shakespeare, and found it so intolerably
dull that it nauseated me. I have also almost lost any taste for pictures or music.--
Music generally sets me thinking too energetically on what I have been at work on,
instead of giving me pleasure. I retain some taste for fine scenery, but it does not
cause me the exquisite delight which it formerly did. On the other hand, novels
which are works of the imagination, though not of a very high order, have been for
years a wonderful relief and pleasure to me, and I often bless all novelists. A
surprising number have been read aloud to me, and I like all if moderately good,

  and if they do not end unhappily--against which a law ought to be passed. A novel,
  according to my taste, does not come into the first class unless it contains

[page] 139 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

some person whom one can thoroughly love, and if it be a pretty woman all the
better.

This curious and lamentable loss of the higher aesthetic tastes is all the odder, as
books on history, biographies and travels (independently of any scientific facts
which they may contain), and essays on all sorts of subjects interest me as much
as ever they did. My mind seems to have become a kind of machine for grinding
general laws out of large collections of facts, but why this should have caused the
atrophy of that part of the brain alone, on which the higher tastes depend, I cannot
conceive. A man with a mind more highly organised or better constituted than
mine, would not I suppose have thus suffered and if I had to live my life again I
would have made a rule to read some poetry and listen to some music at least
once every week for perhaps the parts of my brain now atrophied could thus have
been kept active through use. The loss of these tastes is a loss of happiness, and
may possibly be injurious to the intellect, and more probably to the moral
character, by enfeebling the emotional part of our nature.

My books have sold largely in England, have been translated into many languages,
and passed through several editions in foreign countries. I have heard it said that
the success of a work abroad is the best test of its enduring value. I doubt whether
this is at all trustworthy but judged by this standard my name ought to last for a
few years. Therefore it may be worth while for me to try to analyse the mental
qualities and the conditions on which my success has

[page] 140 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

depended though I am aware that no man can do this correctly.

I have no great quickness of apprehension or wit which is so remarkable in some
clever men, for instance Huxley. I am therefore a poor critic: a paper or book,
when first read, generally excites my admiration, and it is only after considerable
reflection that I perceive the weak points. My power to follow a long and purely
abstract train of thought is very limited I should, moreover, never have succeeded
with metaphysics or mathematics. My memory is extensive, yet hazy: it suffices to
make me cautious by vaguely telling me that I have observed or read something
opposed to the conclusion which I am drawing, or on the other hand in favour of it
and after a time I can generally recollect where to search for my authority. So poor
in one sense is my memory, that I have never been able to remember for more
than a few days a single date or a line of poetry.

Some of my critics have said, "Oh, he is a good observer, but has no power of
reasoning." I do not think that this can be true, for the Origin of Species is one
long argument from the beginning to the end, and it has convinced not a few able
men. No one could have written it without having some power of reasoning. I have
  a fair share of invention and of common sense or judgment, such as every fairly
  successful lawyer or doctor must have, but not I believe, in any higher degree.

  On the favourable side of the balance, I think that I

  [page] 141 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  am superior to the common run of men in noticing things which easily escape
  attention, and in observing them carefully. My industry has been nearly as great as
  it could have been in the observation and collection of facts. What is far more
  important, my love of natural science has been steady and ardent. This pure love
  has, however, been much aided by the ambition to be esteemed by my fellow
  naturalists. From my early youth I have had the strongest desire to understand or
  explain whatever I observed,--that is, to group all facts under some general laws.
  These causes combined have given me the patience to reflect or ponder for any
  number of years over any unexplained problem. As far as I can judge, I am not apt
  to follow blindly the lead of other men. I have steadily endeavoured to keep my
  mind free, so as to give up any hypothesis, however much beloved (and I cannot
  resist forming one on every subject), as soon as facts are shown to be opposed to
  it. Indeed I have had no choice but to act in this manner, for with the exception of
  the Coral Reefs, I cannot remember a single firstformed hypothesis which had not
  after a time to be given up or greatly modified. This has naturally led me to distrust
  greatly deductive reasoning in the mixed sciences. On the other hand, I am not
  very sceptical,--a frame of mind which I believe to be injurious to the progress of
  science1 a good deal of scepticism in a scientific man is advisable to avoid much
  loss of time for I have met with not a few men,

  1 Beginning of addendum. Addendum ends "which might be sold", p. 144.--N.B.

  [page] 142 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  who I feel sure have often thus been deterred from experiment or observations,
  which would have proved directly or indirectly serviceable.

  In illustration, I will give the oddest case which I have known. A gentleman (who,
  as I afterwards heard, was a good local botanist) wrote to me from the Eastern
  counties that the seeds or beans of the common fieldbean had this year
  everywhere grown on the wrong side of the pod. I wrote back, asking for further
  information, as I did not understand what was meant but I did not receive any
  answer for a long time. I then saw in two newspapers, one published in Kent and
  the other in Yorkshire, paragraphs stating that it was a most remarkable fact that
  "the beans this year had all grown on the wrong side." So I thought that there
  must be some foundation for so general a statement. Accordingly, I went to my
  gardener, an old Kentish man, and asked him whether he had heard anything about
  it and he answered, "Oh, no, Sir, it must be a mistake, for the beans grow on the
  wrong side only on Leapyear, and this is not Leapyear." I then asked him how
  they grew on common years and how on leapyears, but soon found out that he
  knew absolutely nothing of how they grew at any time but he stuck to his belief.

  After a time I heard from my first informant, who, with many apologies, said that
  he should not have written to me had he not heard the statement from several
  intelligent farmers but that he had since spoken again to every one of them, and
  not one knew in the least what he had himself meant. So that here a belief

  [page] 143 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

  --if indeed a statement with no definite idea attached to it can be called a belief --
  had spread over almost the whole of England without any vestige of evidence. I
  have known in the course of my life only three intentionally falsified statements,
  and one of these may have been a hoax (and there have been several scientific
  hoaxes) which, however, took in an American agricultural journal. It related to the
  formation in Holland of a new breed of oxen by the crossing of distinct species of
  Bos (some of which I happen to know are sterile together), and the author had the
  impudence to state that he had corresponded with me, and that I had been deeply
  impressed with the importance of his results. The article was sent to me by the
  editor of an English Agricult. Journal, asking for my opinion before republishing it.

  A second case was an account of several varieties raised by the author from several
  species of Primula, which had spontaneously yielded a full complement of seed,
  although the parent plants had been carefully protected from the access of insects.
  This account was published before I had discovered the meaning of heterostylism,
  and the whole statement must have been fraudulent, or there was neglect in
  excluding insects so gross as to be scarcely credible.

  The third case was more curious: Mr Huth published in his book on Consanguineous
  Marriage some long extracts from a Belgian author, who stated that he had
  interbred rabbits in the closest manner for very many generations without the least
  injurious effects. The

  T.A.C.D. K

  [page] 144 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHARLES DARWIN

  account was published in a most respectable Journal, that of the Royal Medical Soc.
  of Belgium but I could not avoid feeling doubts,--I hardly know why, except that
  there were no accidents of any kind, and my experience in breeding animals made
  me think this improbable.

  So with much hesitation I wrote to Prof. Van Beneden asking him whether the
  author was a trustworthy man. I soon heard in answer that the Society had been
  greatly shocked by discovering that the whole account was a fraud. The writer had
  been publicly challenged in the Journal to say where he had resided and kept his
  large stock of rabbits while carrying on his experiments, which must have
  consumed several years, and no answer could be extracted from him. I informed
  poor Mr Huth, that the account which formed the cornerstone of his argument was
  fraudulent and he in the most honourable manner immediately had a slip printed
  to this effect to be inserted in all future copies of his book which might be sold.1

  My habits are methodical, and this has been of not a little use for my particular line
  of work. Lastly, I have had ample leisure from not having to earn my own bread.
  Even illhealth, though it has annihilated several years of my life, has saved me
  from the distractions of society and amusement.

Therefore, my success as a man of science, whatever this may have amounted to,
has been determined, as far as I can judge, by complex and diversified mental
qualities 

1 End of undated addendum of 5½ paragraphs,--N.B.

[page] 145 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

and conditions. Of these the most important have been--the love of science--
unbounded patience in long reflecting over any subject--industry in observing and
collecting facts--and a fair share of invention as well as of commonsense. With
such moderate abilities as I possess, it is truly surprising that thus I should have
influenced to a considerable extent the beliefs of scientific men on some important
points.

                                                                                  August 3rd 1876

This sketch of my life was begun about May 28th. at Hopedene, and since then I
                      have written for nearly an hour on most afternoons

