CHARLES KINGSLEY

         HIS LETTERS AND
   MEMORIES OF HIS LIFE.

                      EDITED BY HIS WIFE.

                    ' ' Sleepe after toyle, port after stormie seas,
                          Ease after warre, death after life, does greatly please."

                                       Spenser's "Faerie Queen," Book I., Canto ix.

                     IN TWO VOLUMES.
                                  VOL. I.

WITH STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS.

            Henry S. King & Co., London.

                                                     1877.

A3

                         ( The rights of translation and of reproduction arc reservcd. )

GrU

                             TO THE BELOVED MEMORY
                                                 or

                                   A RIGHTEOUS MAN

                 WHO LOVED GOD AND TRUTH ABOVE ALL THINGS.
                 A MAN OF UNTARNISHED HONOUR--
               LOYAL AND CHIVALROUS-- GENTLE AND STRONG --
               MODEST AND HUMBLE -- TENDER AND TRUE --
               PITIFUL TO THE WEAK --YEARNING AFTER THE ERRING --
                 STERN TO ALL FORMS OF WRONG AND OPPRESSION,
                 YET MOST STERN TOWARDS HIMSELF --
                 WHO BEING ANGRY, YET SINNED NOT.
                   WHOSE HIGHEST VIRTUES WERE KNOWN ONLY
                 TO HIS WIFE, HIS CHILDREN, HIS SERVANTS. AND THE POOR.
                 WHO LIVED IN THE PRESENCE OF GOD HERE,
                 AND PASSING THROUGH THE GRAVE AND GATE OF DEATH
                 NOW LIVETH UNTO GOD FOR EVERMORE.


                PREFACE.

   IN bringing out these Volumes, thanks are due and

gratefully offered to all who have generously given their
help to the work ;-- to the many known and unknown
Correspondents who have treasured and lent the letters
now first made public ;-- to the Publishers who have
allowed quotations to be made from Mr. Kingsley's
published works ;-- to the Artists, especially Sheldon
Williams, Esq., and Francis Goode, Esq., of Hartley
Wintney, whose sketches and photographs have been
kindly given for the Illustrations of the book ; but above
all to the friends who have so eloquently borne witness
to his character and genius. These written testimonies to
their father's worth are a rich inheritance to his children,
and God only knows the countless unwritten ones, of
souls rescued from doubt, darkness, error, and sin, of work
done, the worth of which can never be calculated upon
earth, of seed sown which has borne, and will still bear
fruit for years, perhaps for generations to come, when

viii Preface.

the name of CHARLES KINGSLEY is forgotten, while his
unconscious influence will endure treasured up in the
eternal world, where nothing really good or great can be
lost or pass away, to be revealed at that Day when
God's Book shall be opened and the thoughts of all
hearts be made known.

                         F. E. K.

BYFLEET, October, 1876.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

                                                                                                                                                        FACE

BIRTH AND PARENTAGE-- INHERITED TALENTS-- REMOVAL FROM DEVON
       SHIRE TO BURTON-ON-TRENT -- CLIFTON-- BARNACK AND ITS TRA

DITIONS--FIRST SERMON AND POEMS-- CHILDISH CHARACTER-- EFFECT                             i

OF FEN SCENERY ON HIS MIND          . , ,,

CHAPTER II.

1830--1838.

nAGED                       TO 19.

LIFE AT CLOVELLY-- SCHOOL LIFE AT CLIFTON-- BRISTOL RIOTS--THEIR                          15
      EFFECT ON HIS MIND --HELSTON -- EARLY FRIENDSHIPS -- LETTERS
      FROM REV. DERWENT COLERIDGE AND REV. R. C. POWLES --REMOVAL

       TO CHELSEA -- ENTERS KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON

CHAPTER III.

                                                            1838-1842.                    41

                                                       AGED 19 TO 23.

LIFE AT CAMBRIDGE--VISIT TO OXFORDSHIRE --UNDERGRADUATE DAYS-
      DECIDES TO TAKE ORDERS-- TAKES HIS DEGREE--CORRESPONDENCE --
      LETTERS FROM REV. E. CAMPBELL AND OTHER CAMBRIDGE FRIENDS

CHAPTER IV.

                                                                    1842--1843.  DEACON-
                                                       AGED 23 TO 24.
                                                                                          6?
READS FOR HOLY ORDERS-- CORRESPONDENCE-- ORDAINED
     SETTLES AT EVERSLEY --PARISH WORK-- LETTERS

                   Contents.

                   CHAPTER V.

                                                                    1842--1843.  FACE
                                                       AGED 23 TO 24.                91

CURATE LIFE -- LETTER FROM COLONEL W. -- BRIGHTER PROSPECTS --COR
      RESPONDENCE RENEWED -- PROMISE OF PREFERMENT -- LEAVES

       EVERSLEY

                   CHAPTER VI.

MARRIAGE --CURACY                      1844--1847.  OF EVERSLEY--CORRE
                                   AGED 25 TO 28.
       SPONDENCE   OF PIMPERNE-- RECTORY

                                                                                 115

                   CHAPTER VII.

                   1848.

                   AGED 29.

PUBLICATION OF "SAINT'S TRAGEDY"-- CHARTIST RIOTS--TENTH OF
APRIL -- POLITICS FOR THE PEOPLE-- PROFESSORSHIP OF QUEEN'S
COLLEGE -- "YEAST'' -- ILLNESS -- LETTER ON MARRIAGE
                                                      . ..                       149

                   CHAPTER VIII.

                   1849.

                   AGED 30.

WINTER IN DEVONSHIRE-- ILFRACOMBE --LYNMOUTH-- DECIDES ON TAKING

PUPILS-- CORRESPONDENCE-- VISIT TO LONDON-- SOCIAL    QUESTIONS-
FEVER AT EVERSLEY --RENEWED ILLNESS -- RETURNS TO     DEVONSHIRE
--CHOLERA IN ENGLAND --SANITARY WORK-- BERMONDSEY-- JACOB'S
ISLAND-- LETTER FROM MR. C. K. PAUL
                                                                                 193

                   CHAPTER IX.

                                                                    1850--1851.  231

                                                       AGED 31 TO 32.

RESIGNS THE OFFICE OF CLERK IN ORDERS AT CHELSEA-- PUPIL LIFE
     AT EVERSLEY --PUBLICATION OF "ALTON LOCKE" --LETTERS FROM
     MR. CARLYLE--WRITES FOR "CHRISTIAN SOCIALIST" --TROUBLED
      STATE OF THE COUNTRY-- BURGLARIES-- THE RECTORY ATTACKED --

       CORRESPONDENCE ON THE ROMISH QUESTION

                                      Contents.                                         xi

                              CHAPTER X.

                                                                            185 1.

                                                 Aged 32.
Letters on University Reform and Teetotalism -- Opening of the PACK

     Great Exhibition --Attack on "Yeast" in the "Guardian"
     and Reply --Lecture on Agriculture -- Occurrence in a London
     Church-- Tour in Germany-- Letter from Mr. John Martineau 261

                         CHAPTER XI.

                                          1852.

                                      Aged 33.

Strike in the Iron-Trade-- Correspondence on Social and Meta
     physical   Questions-- Rt. Hon.                 T. Erskine comes to Fir
     -- Parson   Lot's Last Words                                                Grove
     from Frederika Bremer                          -- Hexameters -- Poetry --  Letter

                                                    ..                                  309

                         CHAPTER XII.

                                                    1853-

The  Rector     in  His  Church--  "  Aged 34.             Letters from Chevalier

                                      Hypatia"             Essays-- Correspondence
     Bunsen -- Mr. Maurice's Theological
     with Thomas Cooper
                                                                                        357

                         CHAPTER XIII.

                                                    1854.

                                      Aged 35.
Torquay-- Seaside Studies-- Sanitary Work-- Lectures in Edin
     burgh --  Deutsche Theologie-- Letter from Baron         Bunsen --
     Crimean    War -- Settles in North Devon -- Writes    "  Wonders

     of the Shore" and "Westward Ho!"                                                   401

                         CHAPTER XIV.

                                                    1855.

                                      Aged 36.

BideMfoarnds--fieCldrim--e"anWeWstawr--ardDeHaoth!  of    his friend Charles Blachford
                                                         Letters from Mr. Henry Drum-
                                                    "--

     mond and Rajah Brooke-- Drawing Class for Mechanics at
     Bideford -- Leaves Devonshire --Lecture to Ladies in London
     --Correspondence -- Winter at Farley Court-- The "Heroes"
     written
                                                                                        437

xii Contents.

                    CHAPTER XV.

                    1856.

                    Aged 37.

Winter  at  Farley  Court-- Letters  to  Mr.  Bullar-- Letter              PAGE

                                                               from
a Sailor at Hong Kong-- Union Strikes -- Fishing Poem and
Fishing Flies-- Study of Phrygan^e-- The Sabbath Question--
Invitation to Snowdonia -- Visit to North Wales --American
Visitors --Preface to Tauler's Sermons
                                                                     461

            LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Steel Engraved Portrait of Charles Kingsley . . .              Frontispiece.

Eversley Rectory                                               page  75

Eversley Church                                                      359

The Great Fir Trees on the Rectory Lawn at Eversley            . . 501

                    CHAPTER I.

Birth and Parentage-- Inherited Talents-- Removal from Devonshire
     to Burton-on-Trent -- Clifton-- Barnack and its Traditions -- First
      Sermon and Poems-- Childish Character -- Effect of Fen Scenery

      on his Mind.

        vol. i.

AND Nature, the old Nurse, took

SaTyhineg,ch"ildHeurepoins  her knee,
                            a story book

   Thy Father has written for thee.

"  C"oImnetowraengdioenrs  with   me," she  said,
                            yet  untrod,

And read what is still unread

   In the Manuscripts of God."

And he wandered away and away
   With Nature, the dear old Nurse,

Who sang to him night and day
   The rhymes of the Universe.

And whenever the way seemed long
   Or his heart began to fail,

She would sing a more wonderful song,
   Or tell a more wonderful tale.

                                 LONGFELLOW.

     CHARLES KINGSLEY:

 HIS LETTERS AND MEMORIES OF HIS LIFE.

                       CHAPTER I.

   CHARLES KINGSLEY, son of Charles Kingsley, of Battramsley
in the New Forest, was born on the 12th of June, 1819, at
Holne Vicarage, under the brow of Dartmoor, Devonshire.
His family claimed descent from the Kingsleys of Kingsley
or Vale Royal, in Delamere Forest, and from Rannulph de
Kingsley, whose name in an old family pedigree stands as
" Grantee of the Forest of Mara and Mondrem from Randall
Meschines, ante 1128." Charles's father was a man of cultivation
and refinement, a good linguist, an artist, a keen sportsman and
natural historian. He was educated at Harrow and Oxford, and
brought up with good expectations as a country gentleman, but
having been early in life left an orphan, and his fortune squan
dered for him during his minority, he soon spent what was
left, and at the age of thirty found himself almost penniless,
and obliged, for the first time, to think of a profession. Being
too old for the army, and having many friends who were owners
of Church property, he decided on the Church, sold his
hunters and land, and with a young wife, went for a second
time to college, entering his name at Trinity Hall, Cambridge,
to read for Holy Orders. While there he became acquainted
with Dr. Herbert Marsh, then Margaret Professor of Divinity,
afterwards Bishop of Peterborough, a fine classic and first-rate
German scholar. This last taste, combined with their mutual
love of literature, attracted the two men to each other, and when
Dr. Marsh was raised to a bishopric he took an early opportunity

4 Charles Kingsley.

of getting Mr. Kingsley into his diocese, and making him his
Examining Chaplain. His first cure was in the Fens, from which
he moved to Holne, in Devonshire.

   Charles's mother, a remarkable woman, full of poetry and
enthusiasm, was born in the West Indies, being the daughter of
Nathan Lucas, of Farley Hall, Barbadoes, and Rushford Lodge,
Norfolk. Keenly alive to the charms of scenery, and highly
imaginative in her younger days, as she was eminently practical

in maturer life, she believed that impressions made on her own

mind, before the birth of this child for whose coming she longed,
by the romantic surroundings of her Devonshire home, would be
mysteriously transmitted to him ; and in this faith, and for his
sake as well as for her own, she luxuriated in the exquisite
scenery of Holne and Dartmoor, the Chase, the hills, and the
lovely Dart, which flowed below the grounds of the little par
sonage, and gave herself up to the enjoyment of every sight and
sound which she hoped would be dear to her child in after life.
These hopes were realized, and though her little son left Holne
when he was six weeks old, and never saw his birthplace till he
was a man of thirty, it and every Devonshire scene and associa

tion had a mysterious charm for him through life. " I am,"

he was proud to say, " a West Country man born and bred."
    " We know, through the admirable labours of Mr. Galton,"

says Mr. Darwin in his "Descent of Man," "that genius which
implies a wonderfully complex combination of high faculties
tends to be inherited," and to prove this in the case of Charles
Kingsley may not be altogether unimportant. " We are," he said
himself, in 1865, when writing to Mr. Galton on his book on
Hereditary Talent, where the Kingsley family are referred to,

" We are but the disjecta membra of a most remarkable pair of

parents. Our talent, such as it  altogether hereditary. My father
a
            a
                                   it,

                                                       is,
                                                    is
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                  ;
was magnificent man in body and mind, and was said to possess

every talent except that of using his talents. My mother, on the con

trary, had quite extraordinary practical and administrative power

....and she combines with    even at her advanced age (79), my father's
                           and the sentiment and fancy of young
passion for knowledge,
girl."

Inherited Tastes.  5

    From his father's side he inherited his love of art, his sport
 ing tastes, his fighting blood-- the men of his family having
 been soldiers for generations, some of them having led troops to
 battle at Naseby, Minden, and elsewhere. And from the
 mother's side came, not only his love of travel, science and lite
 rature, and the romance of his nature, but his keen sense of

 humour, and a force and originality which characterised the
 women of her family of a still older generation.

    His maternal grandfather, sometime a Judge in Barbadoes, was
a man of books and science, the intimate friend of Sir Joseph
 Banks and the distinguished John Hunter. He was also a

great traveller, and had often crossed the Atlantic, in those

 days a more difficult work than it is now. He knew the West
 Indies intimately, and Dcmcrara, where also he had estates,
and had been with his friend Lord Rodney, on board H.M.S.
" Formidable," in his great naval engagement off St. Lucia
in 1782, "on the glorious 12th of April, when he broke Count
 de Grasse's line, destroying seven French ships of war and
taking their commander prisoner." -- ("At Last," Vol. I. p. 69). In
 181 2, at the great eruption of the Souffriere of St. Vincent, when

 resident on his estate in Barbadoes, eighty miles distant, Judge
 Lucas gave proof of his powers of observation and of scientific
induction, by at once detecting the cause of the great earthquake
wave which struck the island, and of the sudden darkness which

spread terror among its inhabitants. " I have a letter," says his

grandson, " written by one long since dead, who had powers of de
scription of no common order," detailing the events of that awful
day and night, and who, while the negroes were shrieking in the
streets, and even the white folks caught the panic, and were

praying at home and in the churches as they had never prayed

before, thinking the last day had come, was above the dismay
and superstitious panic which prevailed; "he opened his window,
found it stick, and felt upon the sill a coat of soft powder.

' The volcano at St. Vincent has broken out at last,' said the
wise man, ' and this is the dust of it.' So he quieted his house

hold and his negroes, lighted his candles, and went to his
scientific books, in that delight, mingled with awe not the less
deep because it is rational and self-possessed, with which he, like

6 Charles Kingsley.

other men of science, looked at the wonders of this wondrous
world."-- ("At Last," Vol. p. 89).*

   His grandfather's reminiscences of the old war times, and
stories of tropical scenes, were the delight of Charles's boyhood,
and gave colouring to his life. They woke up in him that
longing to see the West Indies, which was at last accomplished

and as he sailed the same seas under more peaceful circum

stances, his enjoyment was enhanced by family associations and
memories of the Past.

    But to return, Mr. Kingsley's next curacy on leaving Holne
was at Burton-on-Trent, from whence he moved to Clifton, in

Nottinghamshire, where he and his wife formed the acquaintance
of the Penrose family. To this fact Miss Martineau alludes in
her correspondence with his son 35 years later.
                   a

                                            I.,

                                                                                                                                                     ;

" This evening have heard of you in your infancy                                                      Is that not
I                                                                          a
               I                                                                                   !
odd? The Arnolds have just returned after two months' absence,

and went to Fox How to welcome them home. They have been

into Lincolnshire, at the Penroses'. They say your parents were

friends of the last generation of the Penroses, and they have been

looking over some old letters, in one of which there an account of
                                                                                   is                              a

wo*"rkMThoaneyse"  incidents are mentioned at the request of Mr. F. Galton             in reference to his
                   Hereditary Talent."                                                 work out in some

                   hope," he says in letter to the editor, "that you will
I                                       a
          I
detail the genealogy of his remarkable family, and, you will permit me the liberty,I
                                                       I if
would strongly urge that the sketch should be pretty exhaustive as regards the nearer

kinsfolk, male and female, certainly including aunts and uncles on both sides, and

preferably great aunts, uncles and cousins. When say exhaustive,                       I              mean that note

should be made of every member whose character differed in a decided degree,

.... ....either in excess or deficiency, from mediocrity. Even bald but accurate statementIa
of this form              of much statistical value.   'Of great uncles                               were distinctly
                          I is
abo"veInmtheediomcarintyy,     while    notices  were  below.'                 'Idid not once notice any
                              obituary           that   read in the papers,

mention of what venture to think, partly on your husband's own verbal account to

me, was the most important hereditary peculiarity in his character, namely, his descent

on the mother's side from a pure West Indian family, of, am afraid to say, how many                       a
generations. He mentioned that he revelled in the heat of the Tropics, as in climate
congenial to his nature, and of course the phrase of at last must have been largely'

"inspired by an instinctive longing for tropical scenes and sensations.

                                                                                  Very faithfully yours,
                                                                               "Francis
" Rutland Gate, London, Dec. 24, 1875."                                                                   Galton.

                       Bamack and its Ghost Chamber.                             7

stormy passage of a river (the Trent in flood), when your mother's
chief anxiety was about her 'little delicate Charles,' whom she
wrapped in her shawl, going without it herself. So now, perhaps we
know something about you that you did not know yourself."

While curate of Clifton, the Bishop of Peterborough offered

his friend the living of Barnack, one of the best in the diocese,

to hold for his own son Herbert, then only 17. Such trans
actions were common in the church in those days, and Mr.

Kingsley, thankfully, accepted the offer, and held the living

for 6 years. Barnack Rectory was a fine old house, built in

the fourteenth century, and thither the family removed. It

contained a celebrated haunted room called Button Cap's, into

which little Charles on one occasion was moved when ill of

brain fever, which he had more than once, as a child. This

naturally excited his imagination, which was haunted years

afterwards with the weird sights and sounds connected with

that time in his memory. To this he traced his own strong

disbelief in the existence of ghosts. For, as he used to say

to his children in later years, he had heard too many ghosts

in old Button Cap's room at Barnack, to have much respect for

them, when he had once satisfied himself as to what they really

were. On being questioned about having been born there by Mrs.

Francis Pelham, he gave her his matured opinion of Button Cap

in the following letter :

                                       Eversley Rectory,

" My dear Alice, --                                   June 2, 1864.

            " Of Button Cap --he lived in the Great North Room at
Barnack (where I was not born). I knew him well. He used to walk

across the room in flopping slippers, and turn over the leaves of books

to find the missing deed, whereof he had defrauded the orphan and

the widow. He was an old Rector of Barnack. Everybody heard

him who chose. Nobody ever saw him ; but in spite of that, he wore
Ia flowered dressing-gown, and a cap with a button on it.
                                                                                 never

heard of any skeleton being found; and Button Cap's history had

not"hiSnogmetotimdeos  with   murder,  only with avarice and cheating.  as  the  Ger
                          he  turned   cross and played Polter-geist,

mans say, rolling the barrels in the cellar about with surprising noise,

8 Charles Kingsley.

which was undignified. So he was always ashamed of himself, and

put them all back in their places before morning.

  I" suppose he is gone now. Ghosts hate mortally a certificated

National Schoolmaster, and (being a vain and peevish generation) as
soon as people give up believing in them, go away in a huff-- or

perhaps some one had been laying phosphoric paste about, and he ate

thereof and ran down to the pond; and drank till he burst. He

was rats.                               " Your affect. Uncle,

                                        " C. Kingsley."

   Of this celebrated room, the present rector of Barnack writes

that when some years since the Rectory was rebuilt,

" I carefully kept Button Cap room, which is well built, as four

teenth century buildings generally are, and it is of that age. Button

Cap is still dreaded by some of the old parishioners, and is a mystery

to the young, who see the name painted on the bell which rings from

it. No one in our time has consented to sleep in                           at least of the
                                        a
                                                                      it,
domestic class, and           has been  school-room for my children --
                   a
deserted at night."       it

Charles was precocious child, and his poems and sermons

date from four years old. His delight was to make                          little
                                        a
                                                                  a
pulpit in his nursery, arranging the chairs for an imaginary con

gregation, and putting on his pinafore as surplice, give little
addresses of a rather severe tone of theology. His mother,

unknown to him, took them down at the time, and showed them

to the Bishop of Peterborough, who thought them so remarkable

for such young child, that he begged they might be preserved
           a                                                               :

predicting that the boy would grow up to be no common man.

These arc among the specimens his mother kept.

                               FIRST SERMON.

                                                 [Four years old.]

   " It not right to fight. Honesty has no chance against stealing.

Christ has shown us true religion. We must follow God, and not follow
the Devil, for we follow the Devil we shall go into that everlasting
fire, and we follow God, we shall go to Heaven. When the tempter
is

  if
           if

First Sermon and Poems.                               9

came to Christ in the Wilderness, and told him to make the stones into

bread, he said, Get thee behind me, Satan. He has given us a sign and
an example how we should overcome the Devil. It is written in the

Bible that we should love our neighbour, and not covet his house, nor

his ox, nor his ass, nor his wife, nor anything that is his. It is to a

certainty that we cannot describe how thousands and ten thousands

have been wicked ; and nobody can tell how the Devil can be chained
in HelL Nor can we describe how many men and women and children
have been good. And if we go to Heaven we shall find them all
singing to God in the highest. And if we go to hell, we shall find all
the wicked ones gnashing and wailing their teeth, as God describes in

the Bible. If humanity, honesty, and good religion fade, we can to a

certainty get them back, by being good again. Religion is reading
good books, doing good actions, and not telling lies and speaking evil,
and not calling their brother Fool and Raca. And if we rebel against

God, He will to a certainty cast us into hell. And one day, when a

great generation of people came to Christ in the Wilderness, he said,

Yea ye generation of vipers !"

             FIRST POEMS.is,;
            is                    ;
       [Four years and eight months old.]
It It                                              ;
             SONG UPON LIFE.
     is
       Life and soon will pass
       As life gone, death will come.is
       We -- we rise again --
       In Heaven we must abide.
       Time passes quickly
       He flies on wings as light as silk.
       We must die.

                not false that we must rise again
       Death has its fatal sting,

           brings us to the grave.
       Time and Death and must be.

                MORNING.

When morning's beam first lights us,

And the cock's shrill voice undone,
                  fly
                               is
The owl flies from her retreat,

And the bat does  away,

And morning's beam lightens every spray,

The sun shows forth his splendid train.

 io Charles Kingsley.

                                               Everybody is rising ;
                                               Boys and girls go to school ;
                                               Everybody is at work ;
                                               Everybody is busy.
                               The bee wakes from her sleep to gather honey,
                                   But the drone and the queen bee lie still

                                     In the hive,
                                  And a bee guards them.

                                       Be busy when thou canst !

                                    WINTER EVENING.

                                           Again it is come ;
                                          The owl stays awhile in his nest,
                                          But flies out soon.
                                  Now darkness covers all the sky,
                                  And covers houses, plains and hills ;

                                              Everybody is still.
                                  Now it darkens -- now it rains --
                                      The bursting thunder lightens all ;
                                      Where the windows broken standing,
                                  And the floors are broken all.

                                             NIGHT.

                                   When the dark forest glides along,
                                   When midnight's gloom makes everybody still,

                                         The owl flies out,
                                  And the bat stretches his wing ;

                                        The lion roars ;
                                  The wolf and the tiger prowl about,

                                        And the hyena cries.

   Little can be gleaned of the nursery life at Barnack, except

from an old nurse who lived in his father's family, and who
remembers Charles as a very delicate child between six and
seven years old, subject to dangerous attacks of croup, and

remarkable for his thirst for knowledge and conscientiousness of

feeling.

  I" have never forgotten one day," she says, " when he and his little

brothers were playing together, and had a difference, which seldom
happened. His mother, coming into the room, took the brothers' part,
which he resented, and he said he wished she was not his mother. His
grief afterwards was great, and he came crying bitterly to the kitchen
door to ask me to take him up to his room. The housemaid enquired

               Early Letters.                              11

what was the matter, and said his mamma would be sure to forgive him.

I'She has forgiven me, but don't cant, Elizabeth (I saw you blush). It

is'nt mamma's forgiveness want, but God's.' Poor little fellow, he was
soon upon his knees when he got into his mother's room where he

slept."

  A boy friend, now a clergyman in Essex, recalls him about

this time, repeating his Latin lesson to his father in the study at
Barnack, with his eyes fixed all the time on the fire in the grate.

At last he could stand it no longer ; there was a pause in the
Latin, and Charles cried out, " I do declare, papa, there is pyrites

in the coal."
    Among the few relics of the Barnack days is a little love

letter written when he was five or six years old, which has lately
come to light, having been carefully treasured for fifty years by a
lady who was often staying with his parents at that time, and who
 captivated the child by her kindness and great beauty.

" MY DEAR Miss Dade, --                                    Barnack.

I" hope you are well is fanny well ? The house is com-
Ipletly changed since you went.
                                 think it is nearly 3 months since

you went. Mamma sends her love to you and sally browne Herbert
I Iand geraled (his brothers) but must stop here, because
Iletters of consequenece to write & here must pause.       have more

To Miss DADE.        " Believe m" eYoaulwr asyisn",ceCrHeARfrLieEnSd, KINGSLEY."

                                 i

The subject of his childish affection recalled herself to him

thirty years later, and the answer contains the only other mention
of Barnack in his own hand.

                                 FARLEY COURT,

" MY DEAR MADAM, --                 November 25, 1855.

" Many thanks for your most kind letter, which awoke in my

mind a hundred sleeping recollections. Those old Barnack years seem

now like a dream --perhaps because having lost the two brothers who

were there with me, anecdotes of the place have not been kept up. Yet

1 2 Charles Kingsley.

I remember every stone and brick of                             and you, too, as one of the first
                           a
                                                  it,
persons of whom have clear remembrance, though your face has
            I

faded,  IIam ashamed to   say, from my  memory.                 have pleased, and still
            am delighted  to hear that  my books
   " But

more that they have comforted you. They have been written from my
heart in the hope of doing good and now and then have (as have
now from you) testimony that my life as yet has not been altogether
                           ;                                    I,

useless                                                             I
                                                                                II
   " am just bringing out
                                                                                               it
                                                                                                    is
                           Christmas book for my children with
aI

            a
                                     a

                                                           .

                                                 a

                                     I
illustrations of my own. Will you accept a copy, and allow me to

renew our old friendship?  . . . You speak of sorrows, and have

heard you have past through many. God grant that a quiet evening

may succeed, for you, stormy day.                               am shocked at the amount of

misery in world which has, as yet, treated me so kindly. Yet

but sign that others are nearer to God than                     and therefore more

chastened.                              " Yours ever truly,

                                                                " C. Kingsley."

In 1830, when Charles was eleven years old, his father had to

give up Barnack to his successor. Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley's

parish work still remembered there with affectionate respect,
a
                    is

                                                             a
and they and their parishioners parted with mutual regret. In
after years Professor Hall speaks of " Charles's excellent father

as type of the old English clergyman where the country gentle

man forms the basis of the character which the minister of
                                                                class," he says, " were the
the gospel completes. Of such

Bishop (Otter) of Chichester, Mr. Penrose, and Mr. Kingsley."
Having caught ague in the Fens, Mr. Kingsley was advised to

try the climate of Devonshire, and moved his family to Ilfra-

combe. But the Fen scenery was never obliterated from Charles's

mind. It was connected, too, with his earliest sporting re

collections, for his father, while an excellent parish priest, was

a keen sportsman, and as soon as the boy was old enough, he

was mounted on his father's horse in front of the keeper on

shooting days to bring back the game bag.
   Wild duck, and even bittern and bustard, were to be found in

those days before the draining of the Fen, and butterflies, of

species now extinct, were not uncommon, and used to delight

Fen Scenery.                             13

the eyes of the young naturalist. The sunsets of the Great Fen,
all the more striking from the wide sweep of horizon, were never
forgotten, and the low flat scenery had always a charm for him in
after life from the memory of those days. To them he refers in

an eloquent lecture given to a Mechanics' Institute at Cambridge
on the Fens, in 1867, when he speaks of a certain sadness as

pardonable to one who has

" watched the destruction of a great natural phenomenon, which had
turned ' a waste howling wilderness ' (the Great Fen was such in his
boyhood), into a Garden of the Lord, where

All the land in flowery squares    wind

Beneath a broad and equal-blowing
Smells of the coming summer.

   " And yet," he adds, "the fancy may linger without blame, over the

shining meres, the golden reed-beds, the countless water-fowl, the
strange and gaudy insects, the wild nature, the mystery, the majesty --
for mystery and majesty there were-- which haunted the deep fens for
many hundred years. Little thinks the Scotsman, whirled down by the
Great Northern Railway from Peterborough to Huntingdon, what a
grand place, even twenty years ago, was that Holme and Whittlesea, which
is now but a black unsightly steaming flat, from which the meres and
reed-beds of the old world are gone, while the corn and roots of the new
world have not as yet taken their place. But grand enough it was, that
black ugly place, when backed by Caistor Hanglands and Holme Wood
and the patches of the primeval forest ; while dark green alders, and
 pale green reeds, stretched for miles round the broad lagoon, where the

 coot clanked, and the bittern boomed, and the sedge-bird, not content

with its own sweet song, mocked the notes of all the birds around ;

 while high overhead hung motionless, hawk beyond hawk, buzzard
 beyond buzzard, kite beyond kite, as far as eye could see. Far off,
 upon the silver mere, would rise a puff of smoke from a punt, invisible

 from its flatness and white paint. Then down the wind came the boom of

 the great stanchion gun ; and after that sound, another sound, louder as
 it neared ; a cry as of all the bells of Cambridge and all the hounds of

 Cottesmore; and overhead rushed and whirled the skein of terrified
 wild-fowl, screaming, piping, clacking, croaking, -- filling the air with the
 hoarse rattle of their wings, while clear above all sounded the wild

 whistle of the curlew and the trumpet note of the great wild swan. They
 are all gone now. No longer do the ruffs trample the sedge into a hard

14 Charles Kingsley.

floor in their fighting rings, while the sober reeves stand round, ad
miring the tournament of their lovers, gay with ruffs and tippets, no
two of them alike. Gone are ruffs and reeves, spoonbills, bitterns,
avosets ; the very snipe, one hears, disdains to breed. Gone, too, not
only from the Fens, but from the whole world, is that most exquisite of

butterflies --Lyccena dispar-- the great copper ; and many a curious insect

   This picture was stamped on the boy's young mind, not only
from what he had seen himself, but from the descriptions his
father delighted to give his children of life in the Fens ; and
thus the seeds were sown of the story of Hereward the Wake,
written in after years, produced by the scenes and traditions of
this period of boyhood.

                                * " Prose Idylls," pages 95, 96.

CHAPTER II.

1830-- 1838.

iiAged  to 19.

Life at Clovelly--School Life at Clifton-- Bristol Riots --Their Effect

      on his Mind-- Helston -- Early Friendship s--Letters from Rev. Der-
      went Coleridge and Rev. R. C. Powles-- Move to Chelsea-- Enters
      King's College, London.

The thought of our past years in me doth breed

Perpetual benediction : not indeed

For that which is most worthy to be blest ;

Delight and liberty, the simple creed

Of Childhood, whether busy or at rest,
With new-fledged hope still fluttering in his breast : --

          INot for these raise

The song of thanks and praise ;

But for those obstinate questionings

Of sense and outward things,

Fallings from us, vanishings ;

Blank misgivings of a creature

Moving about in worlds not realised,

High instincts before which our mortal nature
Did tremble like a guilty Thing surprised ;

But for those first affections,

Those shadowy recollections,

Which, be they what they may,
Are yet the fountain light of all our day,

Are yet a master light of all our seeing ;
       Uphold us, cherish, and have power to make

Our noisy years seem moments in the being
Of the eternal Silence ! truths that wake,

             To perish never ;
Which neither listlessr.ess, nor mad endeavour,

Nor Man nor Boy,

Nor all that is at enmity with joy,

Can utterly abolish or destroy !       Wordsworth.

        CHAPTER II.

  WHILE the late rector of Barnack was staying at Ilfracombe,
Sir James Hamlyn Williams, of Clovelly Court, presented him to
the living of Clovelly, which he held till he removed to the
rectory of St. Luke's, Chelsea, in 1836.

    Here a fresh life opened for Charles, whose impressions of

nature had hitherto been gathered from the Eastern Counties

and the scenery of the Fens. A new education began for him,

a new world was revealed to him. The contrast between the
sturdy Fen men and the sailors and fishermen of Clovelly --

between the flat Eastern Counties and the rocky Devonshire

coast, with its rich vegetation, its new fauna and flora, and the
blue sea with its long Atlantic swell, filled him with delight and
wonder. The boys had their boat and their ponies, and Charles

at once plunged into the study of conchology, under the kind and
scientific teaching of Dr. Turton, who lived in the neighbour

hood.

   His parents, both people of excitable natures and poetic
feeling, shared in the boy's enthusiasm. The new elements of

their life at Clovelly, the unique scenery, the impressionable
character of the people and their singular beauty, the courage
of the men and boys, and the passionate sympathy of the women

in the wild life of their husbands and sons, threw the new
charm of romance over their parish work. The people sprang
to touch the more readily under the influence of a man, who,

physically their equal, feared no danger ; and could steer a boat,
hoist and lower a sail, ' shoot ' a herring net, and haul a seine as
one of themselves.

   His ministrations in church and in the cottages were ac
ceptable to dissenters as well as church people. And when the

herring fleet put to sea, whatever the weather might be, the

VOL. L               c

1 8 Charles Kingsley.

Rector, accompanied by his wife and boys, would start off " down

street," for the Quay, to give a short parting service, at which
" men who worked," and "women who wept," would join in sing
ing out of the old Prayer Book version the 121st Psalm as those

only can, who have death and danger staring them in the face ;
and who, " though storms be sudden, and waters deep," can say,

            ******" Then thou, my soul, in safety rest,                 »
                  Thy Guardian will not sleep ;
            ******ShcltcrM beneath th' Almighty wings
                  Thou shalt securely rest." *

   Such memories made this Psalm, in its rough versification,
more dear and speaking to Charles in after life than any hymn
ancient or modern of more artistic form. Such memories still
make the names of Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley a household word in

Clovelly.

  A life so full of romantic and often tragic incidents must

needs leave its mark on Charles's mind ; and thus he refers

to
it,

              a

              I
" One morning can remember well how we .watched from the Hart-

land Cliffs great barque, which came drifting and rolling in before the

western gale, while we followed her up the coast, parsons and sportsmen,

farmers and Preventive men, with the Manby's mortar lumbering behind

us in a cart, through stone gaps and track ways, from headland to head
            The maddening excitement of expectation as she ran wildly
land

towards the cliffs at our feet, and then sheered off again inexplicably                  ;;

her foremast and bowsprit, recollect, were gone short off by the deck
   few rags of sail fluttered from her main and mizen. But with all
a
                                           a

                            I
....straining of eyes and glass we could discern no sign of men on board;                in
          and then, how boat's crew of Clovelly fishermen appeared
view, and how we watched the little black speck crawling and struggling
up in the teeth of the gale, till, when the ship had rounded point into
                                                                        aa
smooth water, she seized on her like some tiny spider on huge un

wieldy fly     and how one still              smaller speck showed      aloft on the     main-
yard, and                                     the desperate efforts to  get the topsail  set
            another -- and then
          ;

                     it
and how we saw tear out of their hands again and again, and again
                                                                                         ;

                         Brady and Tate's Version of the Psalms.

                          The Shipwreck.                                        19

and almost fancied we could hear the thunder of its flappings above the
roar of the gale, and the mountains of surf which made the rocks ring
beneath our feet ; --and how we stood silent, shuddering, expecting every

moment to see whirled into the sea from the plunging jerk one of those

-same tiny black specks, in each of which            was a living human soul, with
                                              "      . . . And, after describing, or
sad women        praying  for him  at  home       .
                                             !

rather painting, every movement of the ship and her salvors as she rounded

the headlands, the spectators keeping pace on the top of the cliff till they

s"usdudcehnlya,    he goes on to say,  staggered  down the woodland walls       upon
                                       as would   have baffled Correggio or     Rem
                 piece of Chiaroscuro

brandt himself. Under a wall was a long tent of sails and spars, filled with

Preventive men, fishermen, Lloyd's underwriters, lying about in every
variety of strange attitude and costume ; while candles, stuck in bayonet-

handles in the wall, poured out a wild glare over shaggy faces and glittering

weapons, and piles of timber, and rusty iron cable, that glowed red-hot

in the light              The ship was breaking up ; and we sat by her like

Ihopeless physicians by a death-bed side to watch the last struggle, and
the ' effects of the deceased.'        recollect our literally warping ourselves

down to the beach, holding on by rocks and posts. There was a

saddened awe-struck silence even upon the gendeman from Lloyd's with

the pen behind his ear. A sudden turn of the clouds let in a wild gleam

of moonshine upon the white leaping heads of the breakers, and on the

pyramid of the Black Church Rock, which stands in summer in such calm

grandeur gazing down on the smiling bay, with the white sand of
Braunton and the red cliffs of Portledge shining through its two vast
arches ; and against a slab of rock on the right, for years after dis

coloured with her paint, lay the ship, rising slowly on every surge, to

drop again with a piteous crash as the wave fell back from the cliff and

dragged the roaring pebbles back with it under the coming wall of

foam. You have heard of ships at the last moment crying aloud like
Iliving things in agony ?
                                   heard it then, as the stumps of her masts

....rocked and reeled in her, and every plank and joint strained and
screamed with the dreadful tension."                 And again, another scene,

which would come before him            in    "cothnetraostld  with   the still   summer
brightness of Clovelly in August,      of                     bay   darkened    with the

grey columns of the water-spouts, stalking across the waves before the

northern gale ; and the tiny herring-boats fleeing from their nets right for

the breakers, hoping more mercy even from those iron walls of rock

than from the pitiless howling waste of spray behind them ; and that

merry beach beside the town covered with shrieking women and old

men, casting themselves on the pebbles in fruitless agonies of prayer, as

corpse after corpse swept up at the feet of wife and child, till in one

20 Charles Kings ley.

case alone, a single dawn saw upwards of sixty widows and orphans
weeping over those who had gone out the night before in the fulness of
strength and courage. Hardly an old playmate of mine but is drowned
and gone.

                                 Their graves are scattered far and wide,
                                 By mount, by stream, and sea.

    " One poor little fellow's face starts out of the depths of memory as
fresh as ever, my especial pet and bird's nesting companion as a boy --
a little, delicate, precocious, large-brained child, who might have
written books some day if he had been a gentleman's son ; but when
his father's ship was wrecked they found him, left alone, of all the crew,
just as he had been lashed to the rigging by loving and dying hands,
but cold and stiff, the little soul beaten out of him by the cruel waves
before it had time to show what growth there might have been in

    Such were the scenes which coloured his boyhood, were re

flected in his after life, and produced "The Song of the Three
Fishers," a song not the mere creation of his imagination, but the

 literal transcript of what he had seen again and again in Devon
shire. " Now that you have seen Clovelly," he said to his wife,
in 1854, " you know what was the inspiration of my life before

I met you."

    The boys had a private tutor at home, till, in 183 1, Charles and
 his brother Herbert were sent to Clifton to a preparatory school
 under the Rev. John Knight, who describes him as " affectionate,
gentle, and fond of quiet," which often made him leave the
 boys' school-room and take refuge with his tutor's daughters
 and their governess ; capable of making remarkable transla
 tions of Latin verse into English ; a passionate lover of
 natural history ; and only excited to vehement anger when the
 housemaid swept away as rubbish some of the treasures collected
 in his walks on the Downs.

    The Bristol Riots, which took place in the autumn of 1831,
 were the marked event in his life at Clifton. He had been a
 timid boy previous to this time, but the horror of the scenes
 which he witnessed seemed to wake up a new courage in him.

                        * "North Devon Prose Idylls," pages 291 --293.

                              Bristol Riots.                                               21

When giving a lecture at Bristol in 1858, he describes the effect
of all this on his mind.

 " It   was in this very City of Bristol, twenty-seven years ago,"                         he says,
          received my first lesson in what is now called ' social                          science,'
that
I"
Iand yet, alas, ten years elapsed ere could even spell out that lesson,

though it had been written for me (as well as for all England) in letters
Iof flame, from one end   of
  " I was a school-boy    in
                              the country to the  other.   been  hearing                   of
                              Clifton up above.
                                                    I had

political disturbances, even of riots, of which understood nothing, and
for which I cared nothing. IBut on one memorable Sunday afternoon
saw an object which was distinctly not political. It was an afternoon of

sullen autumn rain. The fog hung thick over the docks and lowlands.
Glaring through that fog I saw a bright mass of flame -- almost like a
half-risen sun. That, I was told, was the gate of the new gaol on fire --
that the prisoners had been set free ;--that
                                                  . But why speak of

what too many here recollect but too well? The fog rolled slowly

upward. Dark figures, even at that great distance, were flitting to and
fro across what seemed the mouth of the pit. The flame increased --

multiplied --at one point after another ; till, by ten o'clock that night,

one seemed to be looking down upon Dante's Inferno, and to hear the

multitudinous moan and wail of the lost spirits surging to and fro amid

that sea of fire.

  " Right behind Brandon Hill --how can I ever forget it ?-- rose the

central mass of fire, till the little mound seemed converted into a vol

cano, from the peak of which the flame streamed up, not red above, but

delicately green and blue, pale rose and pearly white, while crimson

sparks leapt and fell again in the midst of that rainbow, not of hope,
but of despair ; and dull explosions down below mingled with the roar

of the mob, and the infernal hiss and crackle of the flame.
   " Higher and higher the fog was scorched and shrivelled upward by

the fierce heat below, glowing through and through with red reflected

glare, till it arched itself into one vast dome of red-hot iron, fit roof for
all the madness down below -- and beneath
                                                  miles away, could see
a

  iIf .
                         .

                         I
                              I

                                                                              a
                                                                        it,

                                                                                        a

                                                              I
the lovely tower of Dundry shining red --the symbol of the old faith,

looking down in stately wonder and sorrow upon the fearful birth-throes

of new age.  But to return.   It was on the Tuesday or Wednesday
   ". .

after,  recollect right, that saw another, and still more awful sight.

Along the north side of Queen Square, in front of ruins which had
been three days before noble buildings, lay ghastly row, not of corpses,

but of corpse-fragments.      have no more wish than you to dilate upon

22 Charles Kingsley.

that sight. But there was                             one charred fragment-- with a scrap of old
red petticoat adhering to                                       never forgot --which,
                                                      it,                              trust in
                                                            is

                                                              I

                                                                                   a
                                                         which                         I

                                                                                                     it
God, never shall forget. It good for man to be brought once at
is
least in his life, face to face with fact, ultimate fact, however horrible
    I

                  ;
may be and have to confess to himself, shuddering, what things are

possible upon God's earth, when man has forgotten that his only welfare

in   living after              the likeness of God.             When the first excitement of
"   Not that
                               learnt the lesson then.
                     I
horror and wonder were past, what had seen made me for years theI
                                                      I
veriest aristocrat, full of hatred and contempt of those dangerous classes,aI
whose existence had for the first time discovered. It required many
years -- years, too, of personal intercourse with the poor, to explain to

me the true meaning of what saw here in October twenty-seven years

;ago and to learn                                     part of that lesson which God taught to others

thereby." *

   While Charles was at Clifton, his parents were still undecideda
whether to send him to public school. There was some talk
of both Eton and Rugby. Dr. Hawtrey, who had heard througha
mutual friends of the boy's talent, wished to have him at Eton,a
where doubtless he would have distinguished himself. Dr.
Arnold was at that time head-master of Rugby, but the strong
Tory principles and evangelical views of his parents (in the
former, Charles at that time sympathised) decided them against
Rugby -- decision which their son deeply regretted for many

reasons, when he grew up. It was his own conviction that

nothing but public school education would have overcome his
constitutional shyness, a shyness which he never lost, and which
was naturally increased by the hesitation in his speech. This
hesitation was so sore a trial to him that he seldom entered a

room, or spoke in private or public without a feeling, at moments
amounting to terror, when he said he could have wished the
earth would open and swallow him up there and then.

   At that time the Grammar School at Helston was under the

head-mastership of the Rev. Derwent Coleridge, son of Samuel
Taylor Coleridge and Mr. Kingsley decided to send his son
there. There Charles formed the dearest and most lasting

  " Miscellanies," vol. II., p. 319. Great Cities and their Influence for Good and Evil.
*

                                                   ;

         School Life at Helston.                             23

friendship of his life, with Richard Cowley Powles, afterwards
Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford, and who in 1869,
to the great joy and comfort of his old schoolfellow, became

one of his parishioners at Wixenford, in Eversley. At Helston,

too, he found as second-master the Rev. Charles A. Johns,

afterwards himself head-master, who made himself the com
panion of his young pupil, encouraging his taste, or rather
passion, for botany, going long rambles with him on the neigh
bouring moors and on the sea coast, in search of wild flowers,

and helping him in the study which each loved so well. In
later years, when both were living in Hampshire, Mr. Johns
laboured successfully for the cause of physical science in the
diocese of Winchester, where his name will long be remembered

in conjunction once more with his former pupil and distinguished

friend.

   Of Charles's school life both Mr. Coleridge and Mr. Powles

have contributed their recollections, which shall be given in their

own words.

         REV. D. COLERIDGE TO MRS. KINGSLEY.

                                           Hanwell Rectory,

                                           October 7, 1875.

" . . . . Charles and Herbert Kingsley were brought to Helston

Grammar School, in Cornwall, in the year 1832, by their father the
Rev. Charles Kingsley, then Rector of Clovelly, in Devon. Herbert

died of heart-disease, brought on by a severe attack of rheumatism

in 1834  Charles was a tall, slight boy, of keen visage,

and of great bodily activity, high-spirited, earnest, and energetic,

giving full promise of the intellectual powers, and moral qualities,

by which he was afterwards distinguished.  Though not a close

student, he was an eager reader and enquirer, sometimes in very out

of the way quarters. I once found him busily engaged with an old

copy of ' Porphyry and Iamblichus,' which he had ferreted out of my

library.
   " Truly a remarkable boy, original to the verge of eccentricity, and

yet a thorough boy, fond of sport, and up to any enterprise -- a genuine

out-of-doors English boy.
   " His account of a walk or run would often display considerable

eloquence --the impediment in his speech, already noticeable, though

24 Charles Kings ley.

Inot, think, so marked as it afterwards became, rather adding to the

effect. We well remember his description of a hunt after some pigs,

from which he returned (not an uncommon occurrence) with his head

torn with brambles, and his face beaming with fun and frolic. In

manner he was strikingly courteous, and thus, with his wide and ready

sympathies, and bright intelligence, was popular alike with tutor, school

fellows, and servants.

   " His health was generally very good, but in the summer of 1834 he
had a violent attack of English cholera, which occasioned the more

alarm as the Asiatic form of that malady had reached Helston. He

bore it bravely, and recovered from but believe that the apprehen
                            in

                                   I

                                                    '
                                                                    !

                                                I it,
                                                    I
sion this occasioned led to his removal earlier than was intended, the

distance from London to the extreme west of Cornwall being felt by

his"pAafrteenrtshetolebfet  too great.  he  sent  me  the              manuscript  of his tragedy
                            Cambridge

of 'Elizabeth of Hungary' for my criticism and approval. This was

the last occasion           which stood to him in any degree in the relation

of tutor or adviser. From this time saw him only at intervals but
! Ia                                                                               !

                                                                                           it

                                                                                                        ;
when paid him, as Canon of Westminster, my first, and, as proved,
alas my last visit, on the 17th of November, 1874, he flung his arms

about my neck, exclaiming, Oh my dear old master my dear old

master nor was he less affected at the sight of Mrs. Coleridge --
!'

Valeat in attrnum                                     " Derwent Coleridge."

      KEV. R. C. POWLES TO MRS. KINGSLEY.

                                                                       WlXENFORD, Oct. 30, 1875.

" You wish,                 am told, to have some slight notice, such as may
      I
be comprised in brief space, of the early life of my most dear friend,I

your husband, and you wish that should write it. Such a noticeI

should never have presumed to volunteer not that my recollections of
                                            II        :                            I

                                                                 ;                          I
your husband's boyhood are not full and vivid but because feel my
inability to pourtray with anything like proper force those details of his
school life to which his later career added double interest. But what
                                                      a

"Ityou wish will at least try to do.

           was at Helston, in January, 1833, when we were each in our
fourteenth year, that Charles and first became acquainted. He and
his brother Herbert had been spending the Christmas holidays at
school, and was introduced to them, on my arrival from London,

before any of our schoolfellows had returned.                          I  remember the long,

                                 School Life.                                    25

low room, dimly lighted by a candle on a table at the further end,

where the brothers were sitting, engaged at the moment of my entrance

in  a course  of (not  uncharacteristic) experiments with gunpowder.             I
                       the time of our first introduction Charles
    " Almost    from                                                        and

became friends, and subsequently we shared a study, so that we were

a good deal together. Looking back on those schoolboy days, one can

trace without difficulty the elements of character that made his maturer
life remarkable. Of him more than of most men who have become

famous it may be said, ' the boy was father of the man.' The vehement
spirit, the adventurous courage, the love of truth, the impatience of

injustice, the quick and tender sympathy, that distinguished the man's
entrance on public life, were all in the boy, as any of those who knew

him then and are still living will remember ; and there was, besides, the
same eagerness in the pursuit of physical knowledge, the same keen

observation of the world around him, and the same thoughtful temper
of tracing facts to principles, which all who are familiar with his writings

rec"ogFnoizrealal shiasmgoonogd  his most notable characteristics.   as  a  school-boy.
                                 qualities, Charles was not popular

He knew too much, and his mind was generally on a higher level than

ours. He did not consciously snub those who knew less, but a good

deal of unconscious snubbing went on ; all the more resented, perhaps,

because it was   unconscious. Then,   too,     though  strong               and active,
Charles was not  expert at games. He  never            a score              " at cricket.
                                               made "

In mere feats of agility and adventure he was among the foremost ; and

Ion one of the very last times ever saw him he was recalling an old

exploit in which he had only two competitors. Our play-ground was

separated by a lane, not very narrow, and very deep, from a field on the

opposite side. To jump from the play-ground wall to the wall opposite,

and to jump back, was a considerable trial of nerve and muscle. The

walls, which were not quite on a level, were rounded at the top, and a

fall into the deep lane must have involved broken bones. This jump

Iwas one of Charles's favourite performances. Again, remember his

climbing a tall tree to take an egg from a hawk's nest. For three or

four days he had done this with impunity. There came an afternoon,

however, when the hawk was on her nest, and on the intruder's putting

in his hand as usual the results were disastrous. To most boys the sur

prise of the hawk's attack, apart from the pain inflicted by her claws,
would have been fatal. They would have loosed their hold of the tree,

and tumbled down. But Charles did not flinch. He came down as
steadily as if nothing had happened, though his wounded hand was
streaming with blood. It was wonderful how well he bore pain. On

one occasion, having a sore finger, he determined to cure it by cautery.

26 Charles Kingsley.

He heated the poker red-hot in the school-room fire, and calmly applied

it two or three times till he was satisfied that his object was attained.
   " His own endurance of pain did not, however, make him careless of

suffering in others. He was very tender-hearted -- often more so than

his school-fellows could understand ; and what they did not understand

Ithey were apt to ridicule. And this leads me to notice what, after all,

should fix on as the moral quality that pre-eminently distinguished him

as a boy, the generosity with which he forgave offence. He was keenly

sensitive to ridicule ; nothing irritated him more ; and he had often

excessive provocation from those who could not enter into his feelings,
or appreciate the workings of his mind. But with the moment of
offence the memory of it passed away. He had no place for vindictive-

Iness in his heart. Again and again have seen him chafed to intensest

exasperation by boys with whom half an hour afterwards he has mixed

with the frankest good humour.
   " How keen his feelings were none of his surviving school-fellows will

forget, who were with us at the time his brother Herbert died. Herbert

had had an attack of rheumatic fever, but was supposed to be recover

ing and nearly convalescent, when one afternoon he suddenly passed

away. Charles was summoned from the room where we were all sitting

in ignorance of what had just taken place. All at once a cry of anguish

Iburst upon us, such as, after more than forty years, remember as if it

were yesterday. There was no need to tell the awe-struck listeners what

Ihad

   "
happened.  have      spoken  rather  of  Charles's  moral  than of his intel
Thus far
Ilectual qualities.
                     must add something of these latter. His chief
Itaste was, as have hinted, for physical science. He was fond of

studying all objects of the natural world, but for botany and geology he

had an absolute enthusiasm. Whatever time he could spare from less

congenial studies, and from ordinary play-ground games, which never
specially attracted him, he gave to these. He liked nothing better than

to sally out, hammer in hand and his botanical tin slung round his neck,

on some long expedition in quest of new plants, and to investigate

the cliffs within a few miles of Helston, dear to every geologist.

   "For the study of language he had no great liking. Later on, Greek

and Latin interested him because of their subject-matter; but for classics,
in the school-boy sense of the term, he had no turn. He would work
hard at them by fits and starts -- on the eve of an examination, for

instance ; but his industry was intermittent and against the grain. Nor

Ido think he had any such turn for mathematics as led him to make

the most of the opportunities we had for that branch of study. His

passion was for natural science, and for art. With regard to the former

   Love of Art and Poetry.                                                     27

I think his zeal was led by a strong religious feeling --a sense of the

nearness of God in His works. Thus he writes at sixteen years of age to
one of two friends, in whose intercourse with each other he was much
interested t ' Teach her a love of nature. Stir her imagination, and
excite her awe and delight by your example. Point out to her the

sublime and terrible, the lovely and joyous, and let her look on them

both with the same over-ruling feeling, with a reference to their Maker.

Teach her to love God, teach her to love Nature. God is love ; and the

more we love Him, the more we love all around us.' In the same letter
occurs a passage bearing on art. It shows that, so far as he had then

gone, the writer had definite views and conceptions of his own on

Isubjects of which boys of his age -- am speaking of forty years ago--
Ihad hardly begun to think at all. ' love paintings. They and poetry

are identical --the one is the figures, the other the names of beauty

and feeling of every kind. Of all the painters Vandyke and Murillo

   tdoreamdyfulm. indHisthe"  most  exquisitely poetical. Rubens is magnificent,
                              Day   of Judgment " is the most awful picture
are

Ibut
Iever saw. It rapt me in awe and horror, and stood rivetted for many

minutes in astonishment. What must the original at Dusseldorf be, in
                                                       '
                                           as life     already,
                                          enough
I Iwh"icMh ythleettfiegrurheass
   are as                     large                 !
   been                       long
                                                                 but   should like, if may,

to add a fragment or two of Charles's verse compositions of the same
date as the letter quoted -- e., when he was sixteen. Apart from the
                              is
circumstances under which they were written, these little poems have an
                                     /'.
interest for me which others will share. They show the pains he took

to describe exactly what he saw, instead of running off into the vague

generalities and common-places with which young versifiers often think

to take poetry by storm. In the following lines and in others of quite

his earliest efforts there much of the musical cadence that gives such

a  charm to his later poems, and here and there an expression and a

figure which he did not disdain to reproduce in the song which has

made him famous wherever English literature read.
                                                                 ; is
         TREHILL WELL.                    a

   There stood low and ivied roof,
      As gazing rustics tell,

   In times of chivalry and song
      'Yclept the holy well.

   Above the ivies' branchlets grey                                    bright
      In glistening clusters shone

   While round the base the grass-blades
      And spiry fox-glove sprung.

28 Charles Kingsley.

                     The brambles cling in graceful bands,

                        Chequering the old grey stone
                     With shining leaflets, whose bright face

                        In Autumn's tinting shone.

                     Around the fountain's eastern base

                        A babbling brooklet sped,
                     With sleepy murmur purling soft

                        Adown its gravelly bed.

                     Within the cell the filmy ferns
                        To woo the clear wave bent ;

                     And cushioned mosses to the stone
                        Their quaint embroidery lent.

                     The fountain's face lay still as glass --
                         Save where the streamlet free

                     Across the basin's gnarled lip
                         Flowed ever silently.

                     Above the well a little nook
                         Once held, as rustics tell,

                     All garland-decked, an image of
                        The Lady of the Well.

                     They tell of tales of mystery,
                        Of darkling deeds of woe,

                     But no i such doings might not brook
                        The holy streamlet's flow.

                     O tell me not of bitter thoughts,
                        Of melancholy dreams,

                     By that fair fount whose sunny wall

                        Basks in the western beams.

                     IWhen last saw that little stream,

                       A form of light there stood,

                     That seemed like a precious gem,
                        Beneath that archway rude :

                     IAnd as gazed with love and awe

                         Upon that sylph-like thing,
                     Methought that fairy form must be

                        The fairy of the spring.

" With these extracts, dear Mrs. Kingsley, my letter must end. More
than ever I feel how little qualified I am to do what you wish, but what
I could I have done
                     " R. COWLEY POWLES."

                                    Botanical Taste.                                                   29

   To his mother he writes during the early days of his school-

life :--

  I" am now quite settled and very happy. I read my Bible every
Inight, and try to profit by what read, and I am sure I do. I am more
I Ihappy now than have been for a long time ; but do not like to talk

I
      it,
                                 it

                                                                     I

                                                                                                                    it
about but to prove by my conduct.                                                             hope

   " am keeping a journal of my actions and thoughts, and

will be useful to me."

   The following characteristic letters to his mother will show
the intensity of the boy in his favourite pursuit, prophetic of the
intensity of the man in after life in every thing he took up.

                                                                      Helston, May 16, 1835.
" have just received your letter about the plants, and wish to tell
it

  is I

                   if

                                       I

                                                      I,

                                                           I
you that you must not send the new plant away without either finding

me some more, or keeping one piece.                            entreat you, get me a bit. It

can hardly be an arum, and they ought to be able to find out whether

     an orchis or not. Between you and                         Mr. C.'s botany must be at

a very low ebb they cannot.

   " Dry me as much spurge as you can --as much bird's-nest orchis,
and plenty of tway-blade, of which there are quantities in the long walk --

all the Arabis to be found; woodruff, Marsh marigold, and cockle.

Wh"aGt idvoe                   you   mean by this  last
                               my   love to Emily  Wellesley,
                                    it                         and ask her to dry me some Adoxa.
                                            is

                                            it
                                                 is

                                                          ?

                                                     I
The plant in the moors in flower now. Menyanthes trifoliata its name,
                                                                                            is
and we have found here long ago.                               question whether that            is isreally
                                                   Ifvery likely to be.                            a  most
Arabis stricta;' 'hirsuta'                                             a it      'stricta/it
'
                                                                             is
      I.

               '

                              ;
noble prize but Mr. C. wrong-names his plants dreadfully, between you
                               If you go to Bragela you will find
and                                                                      very large red-stalked

spurge, Euphorbia amygdaloides growing by the path, before you enter'
the wood, as you come up from the beach -- pray dry me some of this.

have found Spergula subulata, Vicea angustifolia, Asplenium lanceo-
I
latumI                         Scilla verna, Arenaria verna, Teesdalia nudicaulis, Orni-

                   !
                      !
                         !

             I
thopus perpusillus, Carex strigosa, Carex ^Eden, and several others, of

all of which can give Emily specimens.                         believe there are only two
                                                               I
                                                                           I
                                                                                    I
other habitats for Asplenium lanceolatum known.                                  shall make the
   " am only sorry we are not going to Ireland, but

most of my time at Plymouth, and on the South Downs, where shall be

certain to get excellent plants. The orchids are unequalled on the

South Downs.

30 Charles Kingsley.

" We must make an excursion to Hastings -- dear old Hastings --
Iagain, if possible.
                      long to see it again.
  I" Mr. Johns and have been settling our Plymouth walks together,
Iand hope to get some excellent plants there.

  I" have written to Lady Louisa (Cadogan), but the verses (Hypotheses
IHypochondriacal) are too long to send. I will bring them when come.
I have seen the Adoxa there with my own eyes in the parsonage lane.

  I I" should like to see the South Downs again. Pshaw ! what am

writing ? My head is all a jumble between Ireland and Brighton and
the Plymouth people. When I go to Brighton I shall cut away by
Imyself for miles and be out the whole day.
                                                                           will have most noble

Ifun. Would it not be a good plan to spend the rest of Miss C.'s

money, out of which bought the conspectus, in buying ' Galpine's
IBotany ? ' It is a little pocket edition, about as big as a prayer-book,
for excursions, and a most excellent work ?                                must have some work of
Ithe kind for my walks.                 hope it will be a dry summer ; and I think

the"reNoistheivnegryccahnanmceovoef  it,                                   wet spring we have had
                                                                           care about the arrangements
                                         I
                                         from                   the  very                                                       if
                                     me.                        do   not                                                                           ;

and seems likely that Plymouth and the South Downs will be as good
a

      it
catch as Ireland alone.              I  have no more room.
" P.S. -- Keep me one specimen of the new plant.
                                                                           George and Vince

must look about for more nests. Let them ask Tom Moore he can
get me woodpecker's nest. Remember this --there are plenty about.
          a

Good-bye."

                                     TO THE SAME.

                                                                           HBI.STON, Feb. 24, 1836.

" write to tell you that                                        am quite well and very happy.
is                                      aI
                                                                        is
  II I                                                                  I

                                                                             it I a I I
have finished * Psyche as you asked me. There no botany yet, but

have been studying little mineralogy and geology. Tell Papa have
             is
very good specimen of hornblende rock from the Lizard, and that
               Ia
have found in great quantities very beautiful mineral, but whether

schorl or aximite, cannot determine. Tell him the gradations of

mica, slate, and Gratnvacke slate are very beautiful and perfect here.
" am getting on in algebra.
                                                                     am studying equations, and Mr.
                                                                I

                                                                           it

                                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                                             .
Coleridge says he pleased at my liking so much. . . Both Cowley

and are looking forward to our holidays in London. . Mrs. Cole

ridge says she had heard from her sister, who saw you on the quay

superintending the embarkation of the packages, and that Mr. Drake

has taken possession.

   " P.S. read my Bible, as you told me, every evening."
          I

                                                             a
                      " Psyche, Rhapsody," page 32.

Early Poems.                                          31

   His poetical compositions, which were many at this time,
were all given to his friend Mr. Powles, who has carefully

preserved them. Charles kept no note of them himself, and
would not have thought them worth keeping. But one more
must be added, as it shows the working of the boy's mind at
fifteen. He called it himself

        HYPOTHESES HYPOCHONDRIAC*.

And should she die, her grave should be
Upon the bare top of a sunny hill,
A mong the moorlands of her own fair land,
Amid a ring of old and moss-grown stones
In gorse and heather all embosomed.
There should be no tall stone, no marbled tomb
Above her gentle corse ;-- the ponderous pile

Would press too rudely on those fairy limbs.
The turf should lightly lie, that marked her home.

A sacred spot it would be -- every bird

That came to watch her lone grave should be holy.
The deer should browse around her undisturbed ;
The whin bird by, her lonely nest should build

All fearless ; for in life she loved to see

Happiness in all things --
And we would come on summer days
When all around was bright, and set us down
And think of all that lay beneath that turf
On which the heedless moor-bird sits, and whistles
His long, shrill, painful song, as though he plained
For her that loved him and his pleasant hills,
And we would dream again of bygone days
Until our eyes should swell with natural tears
For brilliant hopes--all faded into air !
As, on the sands of Irak, near approach
Destroys the traveller's vision of still lakes,
And goodly streams reed-clad, and meadows green ;
And leaves behind the drear reality
Of shadeless, same, yet everchanging sand !
And when the sullen clouds rose thick on high
Mountains on mountains rolling -- and dark mist
Wrapped itself round the hill-tops like a shroud,
When on her grave swept by the moaning wind
Bending the heather-bells -- then would I come
And watch by her, in silent loneliness,
And smile upon the storm -- as knowing well
The lightning's flash would surely turn aside,
Nor mar the lowly mound, where peaceful sleeps

All that gave life and love to one fond heart !

32 Charles Kingsley.

I talk of things that are not ; and if prayers

By night and day availed from my weak lips,

Then should they never be ! till I was gone,
Before the friends I loved, to my long home.
O pardon me, if aught I say too much ; my mind
Too often strangely turns to ribald mirth,
As though I had no doubt nor hope beyond --
Or brooding melancholy cloys my soul
With thoughts of days misspent, of wasted time
And bitter feelings swallowed up in jests.

Then strange and fearful thoughts flit o'er my brain
By indistinctness made more terrible,
And incubi mock at me with fierce eyes

Upon my couch : and visions, crude and dire,
Of planets, suns, millions of miles, infinity,

Space, time, thought, being, blank nonentity,
Things incorporeal, fancies of the brain,

Seen, heard, as though they were material,

All mixed in sickening mazes, trouble me,
And lead my soul away from earth and heaven

Until I doubt whether I be or not !
IAnd then see all frightful shapes --lank ghosts

Hydras, chimeras, krakens, wastes of sand,
Herbless and void of living voice --tall mountains

Cleaving the skies with height immeasurable,

On which perchance I climb for infinite years, broad seas,

Studded with islands numberless, that stretch

Beyond the regions of the sun, and fade
Away in distance vast, or dreary clouds,

ICold, dark, and watery, where wander I for ever !

Or space of ether, where hang for aye !

A speck, an atom-- inconsumable --

I IImmortal, hopeless, voiceless, powerless !

And oft fancy, am weak and old
And all who loved me, one by one, are dead,

And I am left alone-- and cannot die !

Surely there is no rest on earth for souls

Whose dreams are like a madman's ! I am young

And much is yet before me -- after years

May bring peace with them to my weary heart !

                                                            C. K.

   " Psyche, a Rhapsody," was written at this time :--

   " The maiden sat in her woodland home, by a clear cold well,
whence a tiny streamlet murmured forth over bright pebbles. She
loved not the haunts of man, nor the noise of the world, but the secret
song of the wild birds among the boughs, and the whistle of the plover
on the hills ; and all the pleasant sounds of seeming life that fill the

                 Psyche --a Rhapsody.                                     33

summer air, were to her melody unutterable ; and her heart felt invisibly

drawn towards those wild birds, for she loved them for their happiness'

sake ; so she loved all living things, and nought harmed her, for she

wronged none, and a strange spell was upon her.
   " When the dark hills were shrouded in the night mist, and the

shadows of the forest boughs fell thick upon the dappled turf, then

would she sit by her own blue fountain, and gaze wistfully on the pale

evening star that hung enshrined far away in its own liquid azure ; then

it seemed that she saw more than mortals see ; for there were dim
workings of a mighty spirit within, and restless longings to mingle with

the unseen beings which people the bright realms she gazed upon.
   " Then felt she that there was more in her soul than could be satisfied

with such pleasures as earth gave ; and she longed for things holier and

purer, and for a love that should never satiate, a peace that should

never be broken.

   " And as she looked on the quiet face of the evening sky through the

chequered lattice-work of the dark leaves, it seemed as though the clear

blue formed itself into shapes, and beings appeared on the vault of

Heaven, whose forms were not defined, though their presence was felt.

And she gazed up into the dark depths of ether, pausing with mingled

....awe and joy, till the dim vision faded slowly into the dusky air
and she turned away and wept  for she was chilled at heart and

lonely, and a sickening sense of dreariness came over her, when she felt

herself a stranger in a world for which she had no ties                   And

her restless yearnings after future things increased

   " And the song of the wild birds, and the whisper of the woodland

breezes soothed her no longer ; the bright glades of the forest pleased

her not ; she loved not the broad beams of the blessed sun ; for they

showed to her that world from which she longed to turn, but she loved

to sit by the quiet brook at the still eventide, when the birds were mute,

and darkness came down upon the everlasting hills that lay around her

home, and to muse on that love for which she yearned.
   " And she arose in the early dawn, ere the sun had broken on the

earth, and wandered forth to seek pure and perfect love.
   " And she passed forth through the forest, over hill and dale, and

from the mountain's side she looked down upon the long valleys, where

a thousand many-voiced rills hurried down amid grey crag and purple

heather ; and she listened to their soft tongues as they called to one

another with the voice of gladness at their manifold meeting, even as

the souls of those that have long parted on earth glide into each other
                 And as she listened she was happy, and she said, ' Is
in heaven

not love here?'

VOL. I.                                                               1>

34 Charles Kingsley.

   " And she looked again, and the hawk struck the dove in the heather,
and the fox seized the hare among the brakes, and the trout in the

stream rose to the flies on the dimpling wave.             cities, where
   " And she turned away and wept, for love was not here.
   " Then she passed on in her weary way through ancient

the wealth and the glory of the world was heaped, for a strange desire

was on her to seek for love through things above and things below,

until she should rest in it for ever.
   " And she wandered on ; and from some houses came forth the glare

of lamps, and the noise of song and revelry ; but with it curses and

shouts of strife ; and from others the moans of anguish, and the shrieks

of "deAsnpdair.she shuddered, and turned away.
   " And she saw a lordly one upon his throne, and round him kneeled

tens of thousands, and his looks were majesty, and his tongue justice ;
and they bowed the head before him, and praised him, and the voice of

the multitude swelled up like the roar of the troublous ocean. The
treasures of the world gleamed around him, and the dim alcove of

receding pillars showed far palaces of gorgeous sheen ; and the fairest

and the wisest stood around him ; and she pressed forward, for the spell
was on her, and she said, ' Surely here is love.'

   " And her eyes were opened, and she saw him tremble and sicken

at heart through fear and remorse, and his lips faltered, and his brow

darkened.

   " And love was not here.
   " Then she entered a lowly house ; and in it an old man lay asleep --

so still, that it seemed at first sight as though his spirit had fled ; his

white hairs strayed thinly over his broad forehead, and his countenance
was placid, as the face of one who hath died amid pleasant dreams ; and

a fair girl leant over him watching him with beaming eye as he slept --
and the maiden gazed also -- for her heart was moved with pleasure.

    " But the old man spoke in his dreams, and muttered with unmean

ing visage and fixed eye, words dark and mysterious, and his talk was
like the murmur of an evil conscience.

   " And she turned and fled, for her soul sickened.
    " Then she saw a fair dame, with many children around her, looking

up at her with quiet smiles, and clinging as the nestling to the dam.

And her dark eye gleamed, for well she weened that she had found that

she sought.
   " But she looked again, and there were anxious fears for what should

be, and fearful lookings forward to days that might come, and to dangers

that might nip the young buds of the morning, ere they had blossomed

forth, and their fruit was ripened.

                                  Psyche.                                  35

" And she was sad ; for love was not perfect here. Then she gazed

upon two fond ones, as they lay with their fair limbs wreathed round

each other, and their lips mingled in sleep, like young roses that bend

to each other's dewy petals over the same fountain ; while their white

breasts heaved together in mutual throbs ; and they smiled in their

slumbers, for the dreams of love are sweet. But she looked, and she
....perceived in their dreams that there was one chill thought
                                                                           that

such bliss might  not last for ever.   bright  fountains,  for she felt that the
   " And the big  tears rose in their

bliss that endures not leaves a chill behind.
   " And she passed on through the dwellings of man ; and she saw that

           good there  might be           them, yet evil had tainted  it all.
           she turned  and said,          seek love elsewhere.'
Iwhatever                         among
                                  ' will
   " And
" Then she wandered forth by the green ocean, and she gazed upon the

frothy waves, as they chased each other up the smooth beach ; and the

pleasant breeze came over the rippling waters, through whose pellucid

depths the shells twinkled on the furrowed sand ; and the sea-birds

played about over the sea, or sat rocking on its bosom ; and the bright

sun fell on the waves in a rainbow of many-hued lights.
   " And she said love is here, and she watched with joyous eyes the

simple birds that floated on the glistening waters, happy and fearless ;

and she envied them for a moment, but it was but for a moment ;

for the sky blackened, and the whistling wind swept over the long
wave-tops, catching up their crests in drifts of sheeted foam. . . . And

the bright lightning struck the sea, beating back the startled waves, and

diving down in a bolt of flame into the eddy its stroke had made.
Another and another flash, and a wild cry -- the wavy lightning glared

over the sea with fiendish light, and she saw a galley rising on the head

of a mountain wave, mastless and oarless ; she turned away her eyes in
horror ; another wild shriek-- she heard but the roar of the chafing wave
and the howl of the fitful wind. The galley was gone, and the approach

ing wave threw the sea-bird, dripping with foam and rent with lightning,

among the frothed pebbles at her feet.
"
"  And     she wept bitterly.  back    to her  own   blue  well, and  her  heart
   And      she went wearily

was heavy ; for she had wandered far and wide, and had not found that

love for which she sought, and she felt dreary and lone; for she had

seen that in nought was love perfect here, but that all was tainted with

grief and   misery.     that love was over     all,  but that man, at whose
   " Yet   she thought

crimes and sorrows she had been shocked and terrified, had marred the
fair work of earth, and driven love back to heaven. ' And He,' she

36 Charles Kingsley.

thought, ' who made the bright sun and the fair earth, surely loves His
work, and though all is stained with evil here, love is with Him above.'
   " And she gazed up again on the blue sky, and she heard a gentle

voice, as a father's to his child --
" ' Even so it is. God is Love.'
" The birds missed her at eventide, and she was seen by her blue
                 "
well  no  more
                !

                                                     "C. K."

                                     TO HIS MOTHER.
                                                                       HELSTON, Jan. 1836.

  I" received your letter this morning with mingled pleasure and
sorrow, for, as much as I am pleased with the plan you have in view
Ifor me, I cannot but be sorry at leaving Helston, where am already

very happy.

  I" hope the tutor you will give me will be a Cambridge man, as I
Iwish to get up as much mathematics as can, without interfering with
Imy classics before go to college. Mr. Coleridge says that composition
Iis at present of the greatest importance to me, and that must prin

cipally cultivate that before I go to college, as one is not supposed to

know any mathematics before one goes, whereas one is expected to
have obtained all requisite classical knowledge at school.

   " Give my love to Papa and all the children.

                                   " I am ever your affectionate boy,
                                                                           " C. K."

He speaks, when at College, of these school-days as

... I" . the dreamy days of boyhood, when knew and worshipped

nothing but the physical; when my enjoyment was drawn not from the

kindness of those around, or from the consciousness of good, or from the

intercourse of mankind, but from the semi-sensual delights of ear and eye,

from sun and stars, wood and wave, the beautiful inanimate in all its forms.

On the unexpressed and incomprehensible emotions which these raised,

on strange dilatation and excitement, and often strange tenderness and

Itears without object, was my boyhood fed. Moral sense had not so
strongly as men of great minds have. And above all, I felt no allegiance

to the dispensation of fear, either from man or more than man. Present

enjoyment, present profit, brought always to me a recklessness of moral
Iconsequences, which has been my bane. ." . . .
                                                 should tell you next,

how the beauty of the animate and the human began to attract me, and

how after lonely wanderings and dreamings, and contemplation of every

work of art, and every specimen of life which fed me with the elements of

                      Removal to Chelsea.                         37

beauty, the Ideal began to expand, dim but glorious, before my boyish
I Ieyes.
         would tell you how paused on that height awhile, nor thought
that beyond there lay another Ideal -- the reflected image of God's mind ;
Ibut that was reserved for a later period. Here sought happiness
                                     "
awhile, but still unsatisfied

   In 1836 the happy free country life of Clovelly was exchanged
for London work and the rectory of St. Luke's, Chelsea, to which
Lord Cadogan had presented Mr. Kingsley. There the family

settled, and Charles was entered, as a day student, at King's

College, London, where, says Dr. Barry, the present principal, in
a recent letter : --

" He became a member of the General Literature Department of the
College --that
                is,the department for those who were simply pursuing a

liberal education (with much larger admixture of mathematics, modes,Iin It
                               a
languages, and physical science, than was then usual), after leavinga

...school before settling to profession or going to the university.

was a great pleasure to me, he adds, to have been able to invite one

to whose writings owe so much, to preach for us at the College

1873, and to allow us to add his name to our list of Honorary
                "
fellows

   It was great grief to Charles to leave the West Countrya
and the society of those who were all ready to help him in his

botanical and geological studies, and in picking up the old tra

ditions of the neighbourhood. The parting with his dear friend
Cowley Powles, the loss of the intellectual atmosphere of Mr.

Coleridge's house and his valuable library, and, above all, of the

beautiful natural surroundings of both Helston and Clovelly, was

bitterly felt. The change to London rectory, with its ceaseless
                                     a
                                                         a is
parish work, the discussion of which                           so wearisome to the
young, the middle-class society of                             suburban district as

Chelsea then was, the polemical conversation all seemingly so

narrow and conventional in its tone, chafed the boy's spirit, and

had anything but happy effect on his mind. His parents were
                   a

busy from morning till night, the house full of district visitors
and parish committees. In short, Chelsea was prison from
                                                               a

which he thankfully escaped two years later to the freer life at

Cambridge.

38 Charles Kingsley.

   To his dear friend and schoolfellow at Helston he thus pours
out his heart --

                                                             Chelsea Rectory.

"I find a doleful difference in the society here and at Helston,

paradoxical as it may appear                   We have nothing but clergymen

(very good and sensible men, but), talking of nothing but parochial
schools, and duties, and vestries, and curates, &c., &c., &c. And as for

women, there is not a woman in all Chelsea, leaving out my own mother, to
be compared to Mrs. C, or
                                ; and the girls here have got their heads

crammed full of schools, and district visiting, and baby-linen, and penny

clubs. Confound ! ! ! and going about among the most abominable scenes

of filth, wretchedness, and indecency, to visit the poor and read the Bible

to them. My own mother says the places they go into are fit for no girl

Ito see, and that they should not know such things exist

regret here, then, as you may suppose, Mrs. D., and          ; but, alas ! here

are nothing but ugly splay-footed beings, three-fourths of whom can't

sing, and the other quarter sing miles out of tune, with voices like love
Isick parrots. Confound ! ! !
                                have got here two or three good male

acquaintances who kill the time ; one is Sub-Secretary to the Geological

Society
I" As you may suppose all this clerical conversation (to which
                                                                                          am

obliged to listen) has had a slight effect in settling my opinions on these

Isubjects, and I begin to hate these dapper young-ladies-preachers like

the devil, for am sickened and enraged to see ' silly women blown

about with every wind,' falling in love with the preacher instead of his
Isermon, and with his sermon instead of the Bible.
                                                             could say volumes
Ion this subject that should raise both your contempt and indignation.

am sickened with its day-by-day occurrence.* As you may suppose, this

hatred is narpoSev, hereditary, and the governor is never more rich than

when he

  I" Tell
         unbends on             these points.  obliged   to him for his  letter, but
         Mr. Johns              am very much
Ithat do not understand the likeness of the panicle, which Hooker says

Festuca duriuscula has ' subsecund, subcoarctate,' whereas the branches

of mine are diffuso patent, and wholly secund.
   " F. Duriuscula has the spikelets of six flowers ; mine from three to

four. My leaves are neither ' plane ' nor subsetaceous, but convolute

* These early experiences made him most careful in after life, when in a parish

of his own,  t"o   confine all  talk of parish business  to its own hours, and never, as  he
called to         talk shop "   before his children, or  lower the tone of conversation,  by
it it,
letting degenerate into mere parochial and clerical gossip.

                  King's College.                        39

Iabove and below. You can show him this message. Tell him shall write
Ito the Calmadys for more of the Orobanche minor, as my specimens

perished from damp ; and that have an Orob. minor ? from Langdon,

growing among Daucus maritimus, which has the calyx valves erect ; the

flower was a pale purplish blue. Remember me to Mr. and Mrs.

IColeridge, &c., &c. And now, since you must be utterly tired with my

stupid epistle, have done. Valeas igitur, Corculum meum."

   For the next two years he had what he called hard grinding
work at King's College, walking up there every day from Chelsea,

reading all the way, and walking home late, to study all the
evening. In his spare hours, which were few and far between,
he comforted himself for the lack of all amusement by devouring
every book he could lay hands on. His parents were absorbed
in their parish work, and their religious views precluded all public
amusements for their children : so that the only variety in Charles's

life was during the summer holidays, when his father took him to
Durham to stay at his friend Dr. Wellesley's, or to Clovelly.
Of his first visit to Clovelly he writes thus to his mother :--

                                               Clovelly, August 24, 1837.

I" We have been here now nearly a week already, and yet  can

hardly persuade myself that time has passed so quickly ; but the rainy

days we have had lately have given me very little to look back upon,

and from which to judge of the lapse of time.
I" have seen everybody down the village, and have met everywhere
                             Ifor you and after you --when you were
with all kinds of enquiries       wish you had come down with us and
coming --and how you were.

gladdened the poor people here, who love you so dearly, with a sight of

you ; you need not have feared the sea, for we had a calm and delight
ful passage down, with a bright sun and a smooth sea --just what you

would have enjoyed.

  I I" Though have not written to you, have not forgotten you
IAnd to prove my remembrance of you, am reading my Bible and my

Paley, and my mathematics steadily, and am learning poetry by heart.

IMoreover, am keeping a journal, full of thoughts and medita
I Itions and prose poetry, for am not alone enough to indite verses--as
Ihave not had any walks by myself. However, hope that the fine

weather (which  now appears to be returning) will draw out my poetical

Ithoughts again.    am exceedingly well here --quite a different being
I Isince came, and my only fear is that I shall not stay long enough.

40 Charles Kingsley.

wish it were possible for me to stay a month or six weeks, and then

come back to King's College quite fat and fresh from the country, and

all ready for work. Papa has just heard from Sir James, who has given

him the use of the boat and the black pony      Tell Charlotte
Ithat
       am getting her some sea-weeds, and that we are going to

Braunton, and will get her some shells          The dear old place
Ilooks quite natural, and yet somehow it is like a dream when think

Iof the total revulsion that two days' journey has made in me, and
how    seem like some spirit in the metempsychosis which has

suddenly passed back, out of a new life, into one which it bore long

ago, and has recovered, in one moment, all its old ties, its old feelings,

its old friends, and pleasures ! O that you were but here to see, and to

share the delight of your affectionate son,     "C. K."

  At King's College he was once more the companion of Mr.

Powles and also of Sir Herbert Edwards.

   Archdeacon Browne, one of his tutors there, in referring to
this period, writes :--

                                                                                                                         Dec. 24, 1875.

I I" have never forgotten the happy intercourse which had in former

days with your lamented husband, when he attended my lectures at
IKing's College.
                     well remember his zeal, taste, and industry in his

classical studies, and that he always took a high place in the exami

nations. He read with me, with the greatest interest and profit, the

Iprincipal Greek and Latin writers ; and well remember, some time

after he was known to fame, his expressing to me his gratitude for

having introduced him to the study of the works of Plato, which he
Isaid had a great influence on his mind and habits of thought.
                                                                know

that the subject of modern history and philosophy greatly engaged his

thoughts, which subjects, together with other kindred ones, he studied

at King's College."

" I have," says the Rev. T. G. Hall, also one of his tutors there, " a

most vivid recollection of your good husband, and recall even now the

place he always occupied on my left hand, and his appearance and
Imanners.
           own his subsequent career astonished me, for as a youth

he was gentle and diffident even to timidity."

                 CHAPTER III.

                                                      1838--42.
                                                     Aged 19-23.

LIFE AT CAMBRIDGE -- VISIT TO OXFORDSHIRE -- UNDERGRADUATE DAYS --
       DECIDES TO TAKE ORDERS-- TAKES HIS DEGREE-- CORRESPONDENCE--
       LETTERS FROM REV. E. CAMPBELL AND OTHER CAMBRIDGE FRIENDS.

As when with downcast eyes we muse and brood,

And ebb into a former life, or seem

To lapse far back in some confused dream

To states of mystical similitude ;

If one but speaks or hems or stirs his chair,

Ever the wonder  "wAalxletthhismhoares  and more,
So that we say,                         been before,
All this hath been, I know not when or where."
So, friend, when first I look'd upon your face,
Our thought gave answer each to each, so true --
Opposed mirrors each reflecting each --
That tho' I knew not in what time or place,
Methought that I had often met with you,

And either lived in cither's heart and speech.
                                                Tennyson (Early Sonnets).

                       CHAPTER III.

  IN the autumn of 1838 Charles Kingsley left King's College,

London, and went up to Magdalene College, Cambridge, where

he soon gained a scholarship, being first in his year in the May
Examinations, and in the joy of his heart he writes home :--

                                          MAGDALENE COLLEGE,

                                            May 31, 1839.

I" You will be delighted to hear that     am first in classics and

Imathematics also, at the examinations, which has not happened in the
College for several years.  shall bring home prizes, and a very decent
            honour-- the King's College
portion of                                men (K. C. London)      are   all
            I am going to stay up here a  few days longer if you        let
delighted.                                                        will

me. Mr. Wand has offered to help me with my second year's subjects,
IIso shall read conic sections and the spherical trigonometry very hard

while am here. I know you and mama will be glad to hear of my
Isuccess, so you must pardon the wildness of my letter, for am so
I Ihappy, hardly know what to say. You know am not accustomed to
Ibe successful.
                 am going to-day to a great fishing party at Sir Charles

Wale's, at Shelford."

   The prize he refers to was a fine edition of Plato in eleven
volumes. " His selection of such a book," says Mr. Mynors
Bright, an undergraduate friend, afterwards senior tutor of Mag
dalene, in a recent letter to the Editor,

I" Speaks well for his judgment and taste.  recollect one of the

examiners, a Fellow of the College, telling me, that whatever papers

Kingsley sent up to any examination always showed marks of talent.

As you must know, he was always of an excitable temperament. I

recollect his telling me that he first began to smoke at Cambridge, and

that it had a wonderful effect on his nervous system, and enabled him to

work. He did not get a Fellowship, because there was no vacancy for

him, till he obtained one which, no doubt, was more pleasing to him.

44 Charles Kingsley.

IWhen he was about to return as Professor to Cambridge,        was very

much amused one morning, on saying to the College cook, ' We have a

great man coming to us again, Mr. Kingsley ; do you recollect anything
of him ? ' He thought a minute, and then answered : ' Mr. Kingsley --

Mr. Kingsley. Yes, I recollect him. I used to feed a dog of his, and

he used to come and say ' (trying to imitate Kingsley's voice), ' You
con -- founded beast, why can't you earn your own living, and not oblige
me to pay for you ! ' "

a  In the summer of 1839 the Rector of Chelsea took duty, for;
        it,the sake of country air and change, near some intimate friends,
at the village of Checkenden, in Oxfordshire, and settled in thea
                             alittle parsonage house for two months with his wife and his
family, Charles, then an undergraduate of Cambridge, Gerald ina
the Royal Navy (since dead), a daughter, and two schoolboys.
On the 6th of July, Charles and his future wife met for the;
first time. "That was my real wedding day," he said, some

fifteen years afterwards.

   He was then full of religious doubts ; and his face, with its
unsatisfied hungering look, bore witness to the state of his

mind. It had a sad longing expression, too, as if he had

all his life been looking for a sympathy he had never found
-- a rest which he never would attain in this world. His

peculiar character had not been understood hitherto, and his

heart had been half asleep. It woke up now, and never

slept again. For the first time he could speak with perfect
freedom, and be met with answering sympathy. And gradually
as the new friendship (which yet seemed old-- from the first
more of a recognition than an acquaintance) deepened into inti

macy, every doubt, every thought, every failing, every sin, as he
would call was laid bare. Counsel was asked and given, all

things in heaven and earth discussed and as new hopes
dawned, the look of hard defiance gave way to wonderful

humility and tenderness, which were his characteristics, with

those who understood him, to his dying day.
   He was just like his own Lancelot in Yeast, in that summer of

1839 -- bold thinker, bold rider, most chivalrous gentleman
-- sad, shy, and serious habitually in conversation at one

Visit to Oxfordshire.  45

moment brilliant and impassioned ; the next reserved and un

approachable ; by turns attracting and repelling, but pouring
forth to the friend whom he could trust, stores of thought and
feeling and information on every sort of unexpected subject

which seemed boundless. It was a feast to the imagination and

intellect to hold communion with Charles Kingsley even at the age

of twenty ; the originality with which he treated a subject was

startling, and his genius illuminated every object it approached,
whether he spoke of " the delicious shiver of those aspen leaves,"

on the nearest tree, or of the deepest laws of humanity and the
controversies of the day. Of that intercourse truly might these

friends each say with Goethe--" For the first time, I may well
say, I carried on a conversation ; for the first time, was the

inmost sense of my words returned to me, more rich, more full,

more comprehensive from another's mouth. What I had been
groping for, was rendered clear to me ; what I had been thinking,
I was taught to see. . . ."

   The Oxford Tracts had lately appeared, and, though he dis

cussed them from the merely human and not the religious

point of view, he fiercely denounced the ascetic view of sacred

human ties which he foresaw would result from them. Even

then he detected in them principles which, as he expressed

years afterwards in his preface to Hypatia, must, if once adopted,
sap the very foundation of the two divine roots of the Church,
the ideas of family and national life.

    Two months of such intercourse passed away only too quickly,

and though from this time for the next four years and a half, the

friends met but seldom, and corresponded at rare intervals, a

new life had dawned for both, which neither absence nor sorrow,
difference of religious opinions, opposition of friends, or ad

verse circumstances, could extinguish. Before he left Oxford

 shire he was so far shaken in his doubts, that he promised to

 read his Bible once more -- to pray-- to open his heart to the
Light, if the Light would but come. All, however, was dark
 for a time, and the conflict between hopes and fears for the

 future, and between faith and unbelief, was so fierce and bitter,

 that when he returned to Cambridge, he became reckless, and
 nearly gave up all for lost : he read little, went in for excitement

46 Charles Kingsley.

of every kind --boating, hunting, driving, fencing, boxing, duck-
shooting in the Fens, --anything to deaden the remembrance of

the happy past, which just then promised no future. More than
once he had nearly resolved to leave Cambridge and go out to
the Far West and live as a wild prairie hunter ; to this he refers
when for the first time he found himself on the prairies of
America in 1874. But through all, God kept him in those dark
days for a work he little dreamed of.

   He had many friends in the University who took delight in
his society, some for his wit and humour, others for his sympathy
on art, and deeper matters, but they knew nothing of the real
state of his mind. " He was very popular," writes an intimate
undergraduate friend, " amongst all classes of his companions, he
mixed freely with all, the studious, the idle, the clever, and the
reverse, a most agreeable companion, full of information of all
kinds, and abounding in conversation. Whatever he engaged
in, he threw his whole energy into ; he read hard at times, but
enjoyed sports of all kinds, fishing, shooting, riding, and cards."

A letter from the Rev. E. Pitcairn Campbell, gives a graphic

account of their undergraduate life just then.

                                               ASTON LODGE, Nwember, 1875.

" My first acquaintance with your husband was formed sometime in

the   year   1840.    to be sitting  together  one  night on the top of one of
      We    happened
   "

those coaches which in our time were subscribed for by a number of
                                                                     -- for
men los. or £1 each        for various    expeditions into the Fens
                             lay broadly                             Rash-
instance, when Whittlesea                 under water --Sir Colman

leigh, the Dykes of Cornwall, or other driving men taking the manage

Iment, wearing wonderful coats and hats, and providing the horses.

remember the drive very well. The moon was high, and the air was

frosty, and we talked about sport and natural history, whilst the corno

pean professor astonished the natives with what he called Mr. Straw's
a

                                          I
                                                                                                                                         (!)
walzes.                                   invited your husband to come to

   " At last we got upon fishing, and

my rooms to view some very superior tackle which had been left me by

  relative. He came at once, inviting me to join him in some of his

haunts up the Granta and the Cam, where he had friends dwelling, and

hospitable houses open to him.

       Undergraduate Recollections.                      47

I I" never shall forget our first expedition.  was to call him, and for
Ithis purpose had to climb over the wall of Magdalene College. This I

did at two a.m., and about three we were both climbing back into the

stonemason's yard, and off through Trumpington, in pouring rain all the

       to Duxford.
        about 6.30.
Iwa"y,Wneinereamcihleesd
                     The water was clouded by rain, and  in

courtesy to your husband yielded my heavier rod in order that he might

       water with the minnow.

       however, scarcely out of sight,
Itry"thHeelower
 was,                                   before  spied, under the

alders, some glorious trout rising to caterpillars dropping from the bushes.

In ten minutes I had three of these fine fellows on the bank --one of

them weighed three pounds, others two pounds each. We caught nothing

after the rain had ceased.
   " This performance set me up in your husband's opinion, and he took

me with him to Shelford, where dwelt Sir Charles Wale. It was at Shel-

ford that I executed the feat to which he refers in his Miscellanies.*

   " The Times coach used to take us up to breakfast, and many a good

trout rewarded our labours. Then we dined with Sir Charles at five

p.m., and walked back to Cambridge in the evening. Oh ! what plea

Isant talk was his, so full of poetry and beauty ! and, what admired

most, such boundless information.

  I" Besides these expeditions we made others on horseback, and

think at times we followed the great Professor Sedgwick in his adven

turous rides, which the livery stable-keepers called jolly-gizing ! f The

old professor was generally mounted on a bony giant, whose trot kept
most of us at a hand-gallop. Gaunt and grim, the brave old Northern
man seemed to enjoy the fun as much as we did -- his was not a hunting
seat -- neither his hands nor his feet ever seemed exactly in the right

place. But when we surrounded him at the trysting-place, even the

silliest among us acknowledged that his lectures were glorious. It is too

true that our method of reaching those trysting-places was not legitimate,

the greater number preferring the field to the road, so that the unhappy

owners of the horses found it necessary to charge more for a day's jolly-

gizing than they did for a day's hunting.
   " There was another professor whose lectures we attended together,

but he was of a different type and character -- one who taught the gentle
art of self-defence -- a negro of pure blood, who appeared to have more
joints in his back than are usually allotted to humanity. In carrying

   * Chalk Stream Studies, Prose Idylls, p. 83.

  t Professor Sedgwick gave Geological Field Lectures on horseback to a class in

the neighbourhood of Cambridge.

48 Charles Kingsley.

out the science which he taught, we occasionally discoloured each other's
countenances, but we thought that we benefited by these lectures in

more senses than one. We had our tempers braced, yea, even our

Christian charity ; for instance, when we learnt to feel as we knew we

ought for those who had just punished us.
   " To crown our sports, we have now only to add the all-absorbing

boating, and, dear Mrs. Kingsley, you will have reason to think that we

have so filled up our time, as to have little left for legitimate study ; and

Iso, alack, it was with me, but not so, fancy, with your husband. How

ever idle we both were at first, he took to reading in sufficient time to

enable him to realise the degree he wanted        After his examina
Ition, altogether lost sight of your husband until, about the year 1865,
I wrote to him and enquired if the passage in the Chalk stream studies
Idid not refer to me.  long to find his reply --it was a charming

letter."

   Now began his difficulties in theology about the Trinity, and
other important doctrines. He revolted from what seemed to
him then, the " bigotry, cruelty, and quibbling," of the Athanasian
Creed, that very Creed which in after years was his stronghold ;

and he could get no clergyman to help him with advice he could
rely on, on these points. Speaking of the clergy with whom he
came in contact, and of his religious doubts, he writes,

" This is not so much beyond reason, as it is beyond the proper

bounds of induction. From very insufficient and ambiguous grounds in

the Bible, they seem unjustifiably to have built up a huge superstruc

ture, whose details they have filled in according to their own fancies, or

alas ! too often according to their own interest  Do not be
angry. I know I cannot shake you, and I think you will find nothing
flippant or bitter -- no vein of noisy and shallow blasphemy in my
Ifdoubts. I feel solemn and sad on the subject.
                                                  the philosophers of
old were right, and if I am right in my religion, alas ! for Christendom !
Iand if am wrong, alas ! for myself! It is a subject on which I cannot
Ijest will write soon and tell you some of my temptations."

                                            Cambridge, Nowmber, 1840.

 ....I" have struggled to alter lately, and my alteration   has been
                                                           ' Kingsley,
remarked with pleasure by some, with sneers by others.
they say, is not half as reckless as he used to be.'          There is

                Doubts and Difficulties.                     49

another benefit you have conferred upon me-- carelessness for the
Iopinion of the unworthy. Formerly, by a strange paradox, which see
I Iin too many minds, was servile to the opinions of the very persons
Idespised.
            had no rule of morality, felt and believed. My morals were

....only theoretical, and public opinion even more than self interest, my
only God. But now           Ithat have found a centralizing point

connecting my theoretical notions of morality with my affections and

Imy emotions, begin to find that there is an object to be attained in

morality beyond public esteem and self interest -- namely, the love and

the esteem of the good, and, consequently, of God himself. The love

Iand the esteem of the Deity, which conceive is almost the same thing

.... Ias loving good for its own sake, cannot fully appreciate yet, or rather

my natural feelings of the just and the beautiful, have, as you say, been
dimmed by neglect."

                                        Chelsea, December, 1840.

" You cannot conceive the moments of self-abasement and self-
Ishame I have.
                dare not commune with myself and say to my own
mind, ' Thus and thus wert thou made, bright and strong to mount

up with wings like an eagle, even to the threshold of God's throne, and

Ithus and thus have fettered thy struggles and disregarded thy entrea

ties for liberty and light  Still with all my remorse and shame
Iand agitation, I do feel that I am improving-- all this misery is neces
sary.  can return into the way of truth by no other path. My own

philosophy and the wisdom of the heathens of old, hold out no other

mode of retracing my steps than the thorny road of tears and repentance

which the Christian belief acknowledges. But you believe that you

have a sustaining Hand to guide you along that path, an Invincible
Protector and an unerring Guide. I, alas ! have no stay for my weary

steps, but that same abused and stupified reason which has stumbled and

wandered, and betrayed me a thousand times ere now, and is every
Imoment ready to faint and to give up the unequal struggle.
Iswimming against a mighty stream, and                       am
                                        feel every moment I must
Idrop my arms, and float in apathy over the hurrying cataract, which

see and hear, but have not spirit to avoid. Man does want something

more than his reason ! Socrates confessed that he owed all to his

daemon, and that without his supernatural intimations, right and wrong,

the useful and the hurtful were enveloped in mist, and that he alone

smoothed to him the unapproachable heights which conducted to the

I Ibeautiful and the good. So he felt ; but have no spiritual Guide.
Iam told that before can avail myself of the benevolence of Him in

vol. 1.                                   E

50 Charles Kingsley.

Iwhom you trust, must believe in His Godhead and His Omnipotence.
I I Ido not do this. And it is a subject on which cannot pray. cannot
Isay with the French               'O                                 '
                         atheist,      God  (if there  be  a  God  !)       cannot
Ientreat Him on the chance of His possessing a power which                  do not

believe He possesses. At least so all the books and clergymen tell me.

Solve this for me, for you are not bigoted by the solemn triflings of the
                      If I ever believe Christianity, it will be in that spirit
schools

in which you believe it. There is no middle course. Either deism, or

the highest and most monarchical system of Catholicism ! Between
I Ithese two
IChurchman,     waver. If become an 'Oxford Tractist,' i.e. a true
                   become necessarily a steady and conscientious Tory--

they are inseparably connected ; they are the same principle, the one

applied to the political, the other to the religious constitution of
          "
mankind      .  .  .  .
         !

Speaking of the Love of Nature, he says :

"Once this constituted my whole happiness; in the 'shadowy
recollections ' and vague emotions which were called up by the
Iinanimate creation,
                         found a mine of mysterious wealth, in which
I Irevelled while knew not its value. The vast and the sublime,

I Ior the excitement of violent motion, affected me almost to madness ;

  have shed strange tears, know not why, at the sight of the most

luscious and sunny prospects. But 'there has passed away a glory

Ifrom the earth.' Though feel the beauty more exquisitely than ever,
I do not feel the emotions which it produced. I do not shun society

as when a boy, because man and his coarseness and his folly seemed

only to disarrange my world of woods and hills, and stream and sea,

peopled not with actual existences, but with abstract emotions which

were neither seen nor heard, while their presence was felt."             *
              *«**

 .... I January, 1841.

" have an instinctive, perhaps a foolish fear, of any thing like
Ithe use of religious phraseology, because am sure that if these ex
IIpressions were used by any one placed as now am to me,
I ifdoubt the writer's sincerity.                                           should
                                              I allow myself ever to use,
                                   find that

even to my own heart, those vague and trite expressions, which are

generally used as the watchwords of religion, their familiarity makes

me careless, or rather dull to their sense, while their specious glibness

makes -me prove myself alternately fiend or angel, hurrying me on in a

Imass of language, of whose precise import have no vital knowledge.

                       Animal Excitability.                                                            51

IThis is their effect on me. We know too well what it often is on others.

Believe, then, every word write as the painful expression of new ideas

and feelings in a mind unprejudiced by conventionality in language, or (I
... I Ihope) in thought.
                          ask this because am afraid of the very sus
Ipicion of talking myself into a fancied conversion.
                                                                               see people do this
Ioften, and see them fall back again. And this, perhaps, keeps me in
Iterror lest should have merely mistaken the emotions of a few passionate

.... Imoments for the calm convictions which are to guide me through eternity.
              have, therefore, in order to prevent myself mistaking words and
                       never made use of technicalities.
                       time for poetry, * as am reading
I Ifee"linghs afvoer
            thoughts,                                                          steadily.  How I
            not much
envy, as a boy, a woman's life at the corresponding age -- so free from
mental control, as to the subjects of thought and reading -- so subjected

to as to the manner and the tone. We, on the other hand, are forced
I it,
        I

                                                                        a
to drudge at the acquirement of confessedly obsolete and useless know

ledge, of worn-out philosophies, and scientific theories long exploded --

while our finer senses and our conscience are either scared by sensua

lity or suffered to run riot in imagination and excitement, and at last to

find every woman who has made even moderate use of her time, far

beyond us in true philosophy.
   " wish were free from this university system, and free to follow

....such a course of education as Socrates, and Bacon, and More, and

Milton have sketched out."

                                                                           CAMBRIDGE, February, 1841.

" strive daily and hourly to be calm. Every few minutes to stop
IImyself forcibly, and recall my mind to sense of where am -- where
                          I                                                    a is I
           it                    Ia                                                    I
am going -- and whither ought to be tending. Thisit
                   is                                                                        aI
                       I                                                       most painful

discipline, but wholesome, and much as dread to look inward, force

myself to continually     am reading seven to eight hours

day. have refused hunting and driving, and made solemn vow
against cards. My trial of this new mode of life has been short, but to

have begun             the greatest difficulty. There still much more to beis

done, and there are more pure and unworldly motives of improvement,

but actions will pave the way for motives, almost as much as motives do

for actions

   " You cannot understand the excitement of animal exercise from the

mere act of cutting wood or playing cricket to the manias of hunting or

shooting or fishing. On these things more or less most young men live.

  * During these years of trial and suspense he wrote little poetry.           "Twin Stars"
and "Palinodia" are all that mark the time.

                                                                               F.
                                                                                   2

52 Charles Kingsley,

Every moment which is taken from them for duty or for reading is felt
to be lost -- to be so much time sacrificed to hard circumstance. And

even those who have calmed from age, or from the necessity of attention

to a profession, which has become custom, have the same feelings flowing

as an undercurrent in their minds ; and, if they had not, they would

neither think nor act like men. They might be pure and good and

kind, but they would need that stern and determined activity, without
which a man cannot act in an extended sphere either for his own good,

or for that of his fellow-creatures. When I talk, then, of excitement, I

do not wish to destroy excitability, but to direct it into the proper
channel, and to bring it under subjection. I have been reading Plato on
    "proves, to a young man whose superfluous excitement has to be broken
this  very subject, and  you would be     charmed with his ideas    be  no  doubt,
    *****in like that of a dog or a horse--for it is utterly animal."of this quality(excitability) there can
   "  Of the existence

and you must remember the peculiar trial which this " (alluding to the

necessity for hard reading and giving up all amusement for the time being)

   At this time his physical strength was great. He walked one

day from Cambridge to London, fifty-two miles, starting early
and arriving in London at 9 P.M., with ease ; and for many years
afterwards a walk of twenty or twenty-five miles in a fresh

country was a real refreshment to him.
   Speaking of "renewed violent struggles to curb" himself, which

made him "feel more agonizingly weak than ever," he says :

                                          Cambridge, February, 1841.

  I" As for my degree, can yet take high honours in the University,
Iand ought to get my fellowship ; but was very idle -- and very sinful --

my first year.
    I" attend morning chapel at eight ; read from nine to one or two ;
Iattend chapel generally again at five.
                                          read for some hours in the even
ing. As for my studies interesting me, if you knew the system and the
                                                                            I wish
subjects of study, you would feel that to be impossible

....to make duty the only reason for working, but my heart is in very

different studies."

                                                                                                       May, 1841.

  I" My only reasons for working for a degree are that may enter

the world with a certain prestige which may get me a living sooner. . . .
Several of my intimate friends here, strange to say, are going into the

                                      Reading and Resolutions.                 53

Church, so that our rooms, when we are not reading, are full of clerical

conversation. One of my friends, the son of the English Minister at
ITurin, goes up for ordination next week. How envy him his change
Iof life.
             feel as once in the Church, could cling so much closer
         I                                           I
                            if,
to God.           feel more and more daily that a clergyman's life the one?
                                                                        is
                                                             aI            it
for which both my physique and morale were intended-- that the profesI

sion will check and guide the faulty parts of my mind, while gives
full room for my energy -- that energy which had so nearly ruined me
                                                                                            ;

but will now be devoted utterly, hope, to the service of God. My

views of theoretical religion are getting more clear daily, as see more
                                                                     I

completely the necessity of faith. What noble mind Novalis's must

have been. Do you know his works                       or have you read the review of
                                      If not, pray do           To publish translation
them in Carlyle                                                      a
    I
                                   ?
of them will be one of the first results of my German studies, after

my    degree      to thank            you for the books.             am utterly delighted
          forgot
   "

with them."

   The books referred to were Carlyle's works, and Coleridge's
"Aids to Reflection." Carlyle's " French Revolution," sent by the

same friend, had had remarkable effect on his mind before he
      ;
          a

               a

                    I

                            (if a

                                                II

                                                                                 it
                                                                                                                   a
decided upon taking holy orders, in establishing and intensifying
his belief in God's righteous government of the world. The
" Miscellanies," and " Past and Present," followed up, and were
most useful to him, as was Maurice's " Kingdom of Christ," which

she sent at later period.

                                                                     Sully, June 12, 1841.

" My birth-night.                     have been for the last hour on the sea-shore, not

dreaming, but thinking deeply and strongly, and forming determinations

which are to affect my destiny through time and through eternity. Before

the sleeping earth and the sleepless sea and stars have devoted myself

....to God   vow never                He gives me the faith pray for) to be re

called."

  A great change had long been coming over him, to which in

previous letter he points when he speaks of himself as

   " Saved -- saved from the wild pride and darkling tempests of scepti

cism, and from the sensuality and dissipation into which my own rash
ness and vanity had hurried me before knew you. Saved from
hunter's life on the Prairies, from becoming savage, and perhaps worse.
                                                       I

                                                           a
                                                                                                               a

54 Charles Kingsley.

Saved from all this, and restored to my country and my God, and able

I ....to believe. And do believe, firmly and practically, as a subject of

prayer, and a rule of every action of my life."

   The Rev. James Montagu, Rector of Hawkwell, an old college
friend, writing to the editor in 1876, refers to this period thus :

" Our old Cambridge intercourse was to me very pleasant. There was

something in dear Charles's young days then, which drew me (his senior
by some six or eight years) very much to him. There was growing up

in his brain, then indistinct and shadowy, much of that which came out

in riper manhood. There was a dreaminess about him at times which
Icaused remarks to be made about him.
                                       have had it said to me, ' You

seem to be much with Kingsley, is he not a little odd and cracky ? '

and I can remember my answer --' It would take two or three of our

heads to mend the crack.' He would come up to my rooms with, ' Are

I Iyou busy, Monty ? ' ' Not too busy for a chat with you, Kingsley.' And

then must tell you how artfully and cunningly used to slip paper and

Ipencils within his reach ; for knew his wont to go on sketching all

sorts of fanciful things, while we worried our young heads over other

dreams as fanciful. Many of those pleasant memories come cropping
out at times, though long years have past--and long years make memory

weak. Since those days, from his busy life, our intercourse was but
Islight.
          have not forgotten the few pleasant days spent at Eversley ;
I Inor shall ever lose the pride feel in being called Charles Kingsley's

friend."

   His every day college life, his love of art, and drawing powers
are recalled by another friend, now distinguished himself, as
architect of St. Paul's Cathedral, Frank Penrose, Esq., F.S.A.,

&c. &c.

   " My first acquaintance with Charles Kingsley was at South Clifton,

ILincolnshire, when I must have had some romps with him as a little boy,

say in 1823 ; but saw nothing of him from that time till he came up

to Magdalene College, Cambridge, as a freshman, in October, 1838, with
Ime, and welcomed him as something more than a casual acquaintance.
IWe began duly attending the College lectures, and saw at once that
Ihe was a man of no ordinary talents.
                                       was ultimately the best of my
Iyear in mathematics; but, if remember rightly, he at first held his own

on those subjects, and it was by his own vacating the ground that the

                           Undergraduate Days.                                55

tortoise gave him the go-by in that department                        I was always
interested in your husband's conversation, and he was, I think, the only
man in Cambridge with whom I ever got any art talk
                                                                         In the

boating department he was under my command, as captain of the Mag

dalene Boat Club, in 1840-41 ; he never, to the best of my belief, rowed
in the races of our first boat. In those of the second boat he did
                                                           What I remember
constantly, and was regular on practising days
best are his sketches of figure subjects -- his showing me his Cambridge

English verse prize poem, The Crusades. It was unsuccessful, but it

Ishowed the  latent poetic genius.  a clever,   sedate-looking           grey Scotch
             add his dog Muzzie,
   " must

Iterrier, of whom he was very fond. My last shall be a negative point,
and you will not think it unacceptable.        never saw him do any thing
Ithat should have any objection to tell you."

   " ' We were both very idle,' said Mr. J. Barstow, ' in those days --he
Iidler than apparently, for he often asked me to finish his papers for

him, that he might have something to present to our common tutor. He
Ilived very much alone.
                           think he was fonder of the saddle than the
I Iboats ; and saw but little of him, but liked and admired much what
I saw.'

I" ' have never met your husband,' writes the Hon. and Rev. Lewis

Denman, Rector of Willian, 'since we were at College together.

Although not of his way of thinking on many points, I have heard
much of him, and one thing I have heard is --that 'he walked in

his house with a perfect heart.' My impression of your husband as

                                    that he was most genial and kindly
an undergraduate at Cambridge  is,                 a
                                           a
                                                       I
person, with good deal of wit, and most loyal enthusiasm for his
college. The Magdalene Boat was in our time twice second on the
river, and never lower than seventh. He was never, think, in the first
      I'
           I

                        a
boat, but well remember the sort of joviality that used to exist, greatly

ow"ing   to him, in the second boat.    he would get  his  first-class,  and  we
          think we none of us expected

were both surprised and delighted at his success. He has certainly jus

tified his then examiners by his writings since.'  "

                                                        .
                                                             .
                                                                  .
                                                                   .

                           TO HIS MOTHER.

                                                           Cambridge, 1841.

" send you my Sunday evening letter this term, as refresher to        a
I

my own mind as well as yours.  I    am now settled to reading for the next

56 Charles Kings ley.

five weeks, or more, if my private tutors do not go down; at the expira
tion of that time I shall be really glad to stay in Chelsea or anywhere

else to read hard till the commencement.                                                                       I

  I" am going to try what keeping every chapel will do to my mind.

am sure it ought to sober and quiet                          now really feel the daily chapels
       I
           if I

                       aI
                            I

                                                          a

                                       I iIt.
                                                            I
                                                                        I
a refreshment, instead of an useless and antiquated restraint, as used

to consider them.      spent Thursday at Shelford.                                had great fun.

Tell papa hooked trout so large that was three-quarters of an hour

playing him, and that he grubbed the hook out of his mouth after all.
Of course he will say that was clumsy fellow, but this brute would have

         the ghost of  Isaac Walton.
         not, dearest   mother, make
....puz"zlDedo                                               yourself unhappy about                              and
me. am young and strong                                      and she will be strong too.                       Have
no fears for us -- we can wait, and endure, and dare, and be happy beyond

the grave, not on this side."

   During the spring of this year he decided on the Church as his
profession instead of the law. His name had been down at

Lincoln's-inn, but circumstances and his own convictions altered

his plan of life,      change which he never regretted for a
I
moment.
                      it
                              a                            TO HIS MOTHER.

                                                          .  SHELFORD, CAMBRIDGE, June 23, 1841.

" have been reading the Edinburgh Raiciv (April, 1841), on

No. 90 of the Tracts for the Times, and wish could transcribe every
                                                             I
word, and send to                                                   IWhether wilful or self-deceived, these men

are Jesuits, taking the oath to the Articles with moral reservations          is

which allow them to explain them away in senses utterly different from    I

those of their authors. All the worst doctrinal features of Popery Mr.

Newman professes to believe in. God bless you, dearest mother.                                                 I
feel very happy, and very much inclined to what good -- more so, per

haps, and more calmly so, than ever felt before. God grant that this
           I
                                  I
may last.  saw Bateson to-day, and settled with him as to hours, &c.

....Drosier comes up the day after to-morrow, and                                 then begin with

him."
                                                             TO THE SAME.

   "                               (Written just before his degree.)
                                                                              Cambridge, Nov., 1841.
keeping
              That degree hangs over my thoughts like vast incubus,
           me down, and every moment which not devoted to my
       .
           .
                .
                     .

                                                                                     is
                                                                                                            a

                         Letter from Dr. Batcson.                                  57

Ifoolish studies, seems wasted. Alas ! that it should be so ! but can

endure another month, and then feel myself at last free

Send down to Holne and make all requisite enquiries, for I wish for
the 'Far West' as soon as the leaves begin to show. My lodgings in

Devonshire

  I" It will
          ought          not to cost much.    a fresh  spring             in  my life, for
         be like         a second childhood,
Ifelt very wintry till lately.
                                  feel deeply what Manfred says of ' an order

                         Of mortals on the earth, who do become
                         Old in their youth, and die ere middle age,

                         Some perishing of pleasure -- some of study --
                         Some worn with toil-- some of mere weariness-

               And some of wither'd, or of broken hearts.'

  " I feel that if I had not one hope, I were one of those --my heart is
much older than my years -- I feel that within, which makes me far

more happy, or more miserable than those around me, but all of it
                                           mine -- I
         --to   a much later age                      shall               old man
               thank God for it              .
...bI ealomngfoinrtgy                than                    be       an           before

                                  !
I"
    .
.  .  .  My heart is very full,            am rather lonely, but it is foolish to

....droop in my prison, when liberty will so soon be here.
" God bless you and                  and if you rejoice that you have born a
man into the world, remember that he is not one like common men --

neither cleverer nor wiser, nor better than the multitude, but utterly
different from them in heart and mind -- legislate for him accordingly.

                                                         " Your own boy,
                                                                       " C. Kingsley."

   Dr. Bateson, Master of St. John's College, Cambridge, his
tutor much beloved, whose kindly reception of him when he
returned as Regius Professor of Modern History in i860, was a
source of grateful joy to him, thus recalls the undergraduate, to

whom his help was so important :

                                                      St. John's, December, 1875.

   " Charles Kingsley came to Cambridge sufficiently well prepared.
He was almost immediately made a scholar of Magdalene, and he was

Ipriz"emlaonokatbathcke  college examination of freshmen in June, 1839.            pride
                         with much satisfaction, and shall always reflect with

on my engagement to serve him in the capacity of classical private tutor.

58 Charles Kingsley.

He was my pupil for his three first terms, from October, 1838, to Mid
summer, 1839, and again from October, 1840, to the end of the Long

Vacation, 1841. Being appointed in the Michaelmas term of that year
an examiner for the classical tripos for the following year, for which he

Iwas to be a candidate, was unable to continue my engagement for a

lon"geIrt  time.   true,  as  no  one  lamented  more  than himself,  that from
           is too

various causes he made but an indifferent use of the opportunities

which his residence in Cambridge afforded him, at all events for the

greater part of the time. In this respect he differs little from many of

the men of poetic genius who have been undergraduates at our univer

sities. Whether it is that our system of training and of frequent
examinations, has something in it which is repulsive and uncongenial,

or that their fervid and impulsive natures are unable to brook the
restraints of our discipline, certain it is that many youths of most

brilliant promise, who have lived to achieve great things in after years,
have left our colleges with but little cause to congratulate themselves on

time well spent or talents well employed. My own relations with

ICharles Kingsley in those early days were always agreeable, although

was unable to induce him to apply himself with any energy to his
classical work, until quite the close of his undergraduate career. Then,

indeed, he seemed an altered man. With wonderful ability and sur

prising quickness during the last few months he made rapid strides, and

I can well remember admiring his papers, more especially those of

Latin prose and verse, which he sent up for the classical tripos. They

exhibited excellence and power, due far more to native talent than to

industry or study, and raised him to a place in the first class of the
classical tripos. For after all his degree was a good one, as senior

Ioptime in mathematics, and a first class in classics ; but must add

Ifthat it was nothing compared to what might have been attained by a
man of his powers.            he had worked as an undergraduate with only a

small portion of the industry and energy which he exhibited after he

left Cambridge, there was no academic distinction that would not have

been within his reach."

   He now writes to an Oxford friend :

  .... Cambridge, February 6, 1842.

  I" have been seriously grieved to hear that you are ill,
and I am miserable when I think that you are wearing out mind and
Ibody by the over-exertion which hear you are using for your degree.

Are you not disquieting yourself after a vain shadow ? Are you not,

          Value of University Honours.                                                   59

like Duns Scotus of old, going 'perdere substantiam propter acci-

dentiam,' to throw away for an arbitrary rank in the university, and the

Itemporary eclat of doing what many do every year, (I mean getting your

first class and fellowship), are you not, say, going to throw away for this

your health and the vigour of your mind? Remember that your talents

are a loan from God, which must not be abused by over-exercise, and

that it is a sin to do anything now, which shall make you hereafter less
Ifable to exert yourself.
                           you are now led away by the ambition of the

moment to 'propter vitam vivendi perdere causas,' can you justify

yourself to your own heart ? Remember that discipline is not education,

only the preparation for and that your university studies are only
                        it,

                                      I
useful, so far as they strengthen your mind to learn, judge, and systema

tize for itself after you leave college.                   look forward for you to long
                                                           I
                                                                                     a
life of honour and usefulness in the church, in which am sure you will

gain all the glory which you ought to wish for, that of having fought

the church's battles on earth and will make me very unhappy to see
          a

                            ;

                              it
you settling into the misanthropic, and unpractical fellow of college,
                                                                           a
                                                                                     a
without ties and with comparatively small sphere of usefulness to that

which you might attain, by denying your ambition for time, and so

sparing your health for the more important labours of an ambassador of

God. Leave college, for God's sake, as soon as you can you have been
                                                                    ;

too long there already     Pray to God to save you from the

....temptations of morbid melancholy and unavailing regret. Go more
into the world--amuse yourself-- learn men                          look round you

....and see how much you have still left you of the sources of happiness.
          Your heart still young. You have not yet lost the elasticity of
          it
                     is

                           it
                                  is

                                         it

                                              if
                                                                              '
                                                                it
                                                                        it
                                                                                     is
youth. Do not wilfully destroy by the concentration of your over
strained faculties on any single pursuit. Force yourself into variety --

irksome as may be,         unmanly to refuse as                                          to put aside
                                                                                         is
medicine for its nauseous taste. And                       man delights you not, nor
woman either,' go back to the fields and woods -- seek God in them, and                    if
they will teach you the philosophy of harmony and peace. If you study
                                                                                                 it a
men, let be from themselves and not from                   books,    and above all do
not meditate " /xr) mpX aavTov IXA* ti\v yvafitjv dfi         AXX'  airo\aka 1-171*tppovrili'
I                                                          s

         a is it                                                       is

            if

                   I

                                              is
                                                       is
«'r t&v aipa." There are times when to think                               injurious, and

therefore wrong, and such a crisis yours now. And go to the Bible
-- there
          peace there, and a wisdom which will teach you to look
lightly on the honours of an arbitrary standard of distinction --

hangs as cloud, however bright, between you and your God.
" do not know whether you will be offended, but my letter
....Iffectly spontaneous.                                                                per

                        do not ask you to answer           it.             you are angry,

answer me -- your heart too full, be silent."

60 Charles Kingsley.

                             TO THE SAME.

                                                Cambridge, February 13, 1S42.

  "As I was musing the fire kindled, and Iso speak on the first
sheet of paper I could find in a Trinity man's rooms. I am sin

cerely happy to find that you have no fears for your health, and the

latter part of your letter still more delighted me, for what would health

have been to you in despair? After your degree, leave it in God's

hands. Wise, commonplace piece of advice that, but no less a true and

a practical one. There is some peculiar purpose in this threatened dis

appointment of yours after all shall turn out to be one), and that
                         (if

                             is

                             I

                                         it
purpose,  I ifyou submit,   the ulterior benefit of your mind. And
                                                                                    a
even, short-sighted mortal as am, see, or seem to see, much good about
                                                                                          I
to accrue to your mind, even from disappointment in your degree. You

have been, fear, too much accustomed to consider university honours
as the end and aim of man's life, instead of seeing in them
                         a                                                                   mere

triumph for studies higher and severer, as well as more beneficial for the

science of unfolding the great mystery of our being, the v66iv km not of

our wonderful humanity, for the inquiry into the duties and the capabilities

of mankind, and its application to their and our own perfection. A

discipline which shall enable us hereafter to make ourselves and all

around us, wiser, better, and happier. This the object of, or, rather,is

the only good to be derived from, university education and                          if       your
                                                                         ;
                                                                                 ;
studies have any other aim, they are useless and hurtful useless, because

they do not benefit the surrounding mass of mankind, who expect from         a
you not the mere announcement of your having taken first class, but
the active and practical influence of your wisdom and piety in guiding

them upwards, and smoothing the rugged road of life for them hurtful,
                                                                                    ;
because they turn away your mind to their arbitrary standard of ex                        '

cellence, from the great hope, God from the great question What
                                             ;
are we, and why are we born
                                                          is
                             ?     from the great object that we may be
                                '

perfect even as our Father in Heaven                          perfect               Do not

imagine that speak without sympathy of your honourable ambition
it a                                                                                II
wish to see more worthily directed.             have felt myself, and cir               I ;I
      it I                                   I                           it

cumstances, more than my own reason, have weaned me from it. have;

been toiling almost as hard as you, and in fact much harder than

my health would allow, for the last six months, but not because felt

distinction here an object, but because having battle to fight with the
world-- bride to win as penniless adventurer from rich relations,
found necessary to attack Mammon with weapons which he could feel
                            a
                                                              in

                                                                      a
and appreciate and the first weapon thrown my way was the tangible

proof of talent and application, and claim to attention, implied in good
                                                                                    a

                      Examination for Honours,                     61

Idegree. All through life, fear, or, at least, all through youth, age, and

perhaps till we shake off the earthly husk, we must more or less use the
weapons of the earth, if we would keep ourselves in the station in which

alone we can improve ourselves, and do good; but these weapons

should be only used as the student uses bodily exercise, to put his

animal health into that soundness which shall enable him completely to

employ his mental vigour. Now whether you will understand this long
and absolute ethic, I do not know, but I mean sense and friendship,
Iwhether have expressed it or not. My brains, however, are in such an
Iover-worked and be-Greeked state, that cannot answer for always
Italking sense just now. My degree, have got -- /. c., my mathematical
Ione.
       came out to my great astonishment, and that of my tutor, a

tolerable second-class, with very little reading. The classical examina
I I /Ition comes on on Monday, and whether shall get my first-class or
Ifnot, is the rub.      do not, have not health to accuse like you, but

previous idleness in my second and first year. So shall have some
cause to repine, if man has cause to repine at anything. I read myself

ill this week, and have been ordered to shut up every book till the ex

Iamination, and in fact the last three weeks in which had to make a

rally from the violent exertion of the mathematical tripos, have been
                                                       just when I
spent in agonies of pain with leeches on my head
Iought to have been straining every nerve.
but I have now, thank God, conquered             was very fretful at first,

                                          I it,and for the last forty-eight

hours not thought of the examination.            cannot be low, may be
                                                       I
         After this   Jean-Jacques-like confession of            I
high.  to propose      plan to you -- am going after   my own miseries,
want                 a  (I                             my degree to read
                                 I
Ifdivinity for five months                       hope, in September), at
                        shall be ordained,  I     you could come down

a  place called Holne, in Dartmoor, Devon.

to me in summer, and live mountain air and most exquisite scenery,in

we might renew our intimacy and mutually  assist each other
am going there to recover my health, not
                                          my spirits -- defy
                                                 I            the  world
                                                      I
                                                                      I
to break them and you will want calm and relaxation after your
              a;
labours              Come down to see me               shall be most happy
to have you as
                     temporary sharer in the frugalities of my farm house

lodging. Whether you will despise hard beds and dimity curtains,

morning bathes and evening trout fishing, mountain mutton and Devon
shire cream, do not know, but you will not despise the calm of a few
       I

                        is
                                              of
                                                                                is
                                                                                                      is ;
weeks in which to commune with God in his works, and to strengthen

mind and body together, before you again commence your labours for

remember always, toil the condition our being. Our sentence to

labour from the cradle to the grave. But there are Sabbaths allowed

for the mind as well as the body, when the intellect   stilled, and the

62 Charles Kingsley.

emotions alone perform their gentle and involuntary functions, and to such
Ia Sabbath will lead you next summer.
  I" Pardon auto-schediasms of paper and obscurity of style, for  have

walked ten miles down the Cam to-day, pike-fishing, and back, and

have been sleeping in an arm-chair, dead tired. My panacea for
stupidity and over-' mentation ' is a day in a roaring fen wind."

   An incident occurred during the examination which was much
talked of at the time, and is recalled by the Rev. Rigby Kewley,
now Rector of Baldock, and Honorary Canon of Rochester :

" On one morning but one question remained of a paper on

mechanics, ' Describe a Common Pump.' Of the internal machinery of

the pump Kingsley was unable to render a scientific account, but of the

outside his vivid imagination supplied a picture which his facile pencil

soon transferred to paper. Under the heading, ' Describe a Pump,' he

drew a grand village pump in the midst of a broad green, and opposite

the porch of an ancient church. By the side of the pump stood, in all

pomposity of his office, the village beadle, with uniform and baton.
Around were women and children of all ages, shapes, dress, and sizes,

each carrying a crock, a jug, a bucket, or some vessel large or small.

These were drawn with considerable power, and the whole was lighted
up with his deep vein of humour; while around the pump itself was a

huge chain, padlocked, and surrounded by a notice, ' This pump locked

Iduring Divine service.' This, Kingsley sent up to the examiner as his
answer to the question.  know not whether he got any marks for it ;

but it was so clever that the moderator of the year had it framed and

hung up on the wall of his room."

   He left Cambridge in February, much exhausted in body and
mind, from having, by six months' desperate reading, done work
which should have been spread over his three years of University
life. He came out in honours, first-class in classics, and senior

opt. in mathematics.

                   CHAPTER IV.

                                                    1842--1843.

                                                     Aged 23-24.
READS FOR HOLY ORDERS-- CORRESPONDENCE-- ORDAINED DEACON-- SETTLES

                              AT EVERSLEY-- PARISH WORK-- LETTERS.

    " Blessed is he who has found his work ; let him ask               no    o"ther  blessedness.  He has
   work, a life purpose ; he has found and will follow
a                          it is                                       is !it
                                 is
                                                                       CARLYLE'S Past and Present.
                                    it
   " Nothing              sweeter than Love, nothing more courageous, nothing higher, nothingis
       is                                  it,
wider, nothing more pleasant, nothing fuller nor better in heaven and earth becauseit ;
                                                            ;                        is ;
lov"e     born of God, and cannot rest but in God, above all created things.it isis ;              above
   "   He that loveth flieth, runneth, and rejoiceth he free and not bound.
       He giveth all for all, and hath all in all because he resteth in One Highest

things, from whom all that good flows and proceeds. Love feels no burden, thinks

nothing of trouble, attempts what  above its strength, pleads no excuse of impos
sibility for thinks all things lawful for itself and all things possible. It therefore

able to undertake all things, and completes many things, and brings them to con
                                                                                                   a

clusion, where he who does not love faints and lies down. Love watcheth, and

sleeping, slumbereth not. Though weary, love not tired though pressed,                             it      not
                                                                           a;                          is

straitened; though alarmed,  not confounded: but as lively flame, and burning

torch,  forces its way upwards, and securely passes through all."

                                         THOMAS A KEMPIS. Book III., chap.                            5.

         CHAPTER IV.

   DURING the spring, while slowly recovering the exhaustion of
his degree and reading for Holy Orders, he had the offer of two
curacies in Hampshire, at Kingsley and at Eversley. He chose

the latter.

 "... Chelsea, April, 1842.

          I hope to be ordained in July to the Curacy of Eversley in

Hampshire. In the midst of lovely scenery -- rich-- but not exciting.

And you will be with me in your thoughts, in my village visits, and
my moorland walks, when I am drinking in from man, and nature, the
good and the beautiful, while I purge in my vocation the evil, and
Iraise up the falling and the faint. Can  not do it ? for have I not
fainted and fallen ? And do I not know too well the bitterness that is

from without, as well as the more dire one, from within                                                                                  My
reading at present must be exclusively confined to divinity --not so

Iyours.  You may still range freely among the meadows of the beautiful,
         am mining in the deep mountains of the true. And so it should
while

be through life. The woman's part should be to cultivate the affections

and the imagination ; the man's the intellect of their common soul. She

must teach him how to apply his knowledge to men's hearts. He must

teach her how to arrange that knowledge into practical and theoretical

forms. In this the woman has the nobler task. But there is one more
noble still--to find out from the notices of the universe, and the revela

tion of God, and the uninspired truth which He has made his creatures

to declare even in heathen lands, to find out from all these the pure

mind of God, and the eternal laws whereby He made us and governs

us. This is true science ; and this, as we discover      will replace
         r.
                               !

                                                                     it
                                                                                is

                                                                                                       it,
                                                                                                                                      »
phantoms by reality, and that darkling taper of 'common sense,' by the
glorious light of certainty. For this the man must bring his philosophy,

and the woman her exquisite sense of the beautiful and the just, and all

hearts and all lands shall lie open before them, as they gradually know
them one by one That glorious word know --
                                            God's attribute, and

vol.

66 Charles KingsIey.

includes in itself all others. Love -- truth --all are parts of that awful

power of knowing, at a single glance, from and to all eternity, what a thing

is in its essence, its properties, and its relations to the whole universe

I Ithrough all time ! feel awe-struck whenever see that word used rightly,
I Iand never, if can remember, use it myself of myself. But to us, as to

dying Schiller, hereafter many things will become plain and clear. And
this is no dream of romance. It is what many have approximated to

before us, with less intellectual, and no greater spiritual advantages,
and strange to say, some of them alone--buried in cloisters seldom -- in
studies often --some, worst of all, worn down by the hourly misery of a

wife who neither loved them nor felt for them : but to those who, through

love, have once caught a glimpse of ' the great secret,' what may they

not do by it in years of love and thought ? For this heavenly know

ledge is not, as boyish enthusiasts fancy, the work of a day or a year.

Youth will pass before we shall have made anything but a slight approxi

mation to and having handed down to our children the little wisdom
                 it,

                   if

                                   is
                                          it
we shall have amassed while here, we shall commend them to God, and

enter eternity very little wiser in proportion to the universal knowledge

tha"n   we  were   when we left at our birth.                       for eternity,  our knowledge,
       But  still   our plans are not for time, but

and therefore our love to God, to each other, to ourselves, to every

thin"gA, nwdillthpisrosgcrheessmefor  ever.      too --for the attainment          of this heavenly
                                      practical

wisdom requires neither ecstacy nor revelation, but prayer, and watch

fulness, and observation, and deep and solemn thought. And two great
rules for its attainment are simple enough -- " Never forget what and

where you are and, Grieve not the Holy Spirit.' And                                     not only
                   ;'                            it
                                    '
                                                            a

                                                                             it
                                                                                    is
compatible with our duties as priests of the Eternal, but includes them

as one of the means to its attainment, for "if man will do God's will,

he shall know of the doctrine, whether                              be of God." They do not

speak without scriptural as well as theoretical foundation, who think

that we may hereafter be called upon to preach God to other worlds,

beside our own and                     this be so, does not the acquirement of this
                   ;
                           a                  Knowledge and love are reciprocal. He

                            if

                                        ?
knowledge become duty

who loves knows. He who knows loves.                                Saint John     is  the example
of the first, Saint Paul of the second."

   In the interval between Cambridge and his curacy he began
to write the life of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, his ideal saint, not
intending for publication, but as gift book to his wife on his

marriage day, that day should ever come.
                 it

                      if

                                                                 a

          German Mysticism.                                              67

                                                                                                        May, 1842.

  I" When it is finished," he says, " have another work of the same

kind to begin -- a life of St. Theresa --as a specimen of the dreamy
mystic, in contrast with the working ascetic, St. Elizabeth, and to con
trast the celibate saint with the married one.

   " For this we must read Tersteegen, Jacob Behmen, Madame Guyon,
Alban Butler, Fenelon, some of Origen and Clemens Alexandrinus,
and Coleridge's " Aids," &c., also some of Kant, and a German
history of mysticism. In order to understand puritanism and evangeli

calism, we must thoroughly understand asceticism and mysticism, which
have to be eradicated from them in preaching our ' Message.' "

                             Chelsea, May 7, 1842.

I" have not begun Palmer's work on the church yet, and shall not
Itill after my ordination.
                            am afraid it is not catholic enough to suit
Ime. hate party books. Men think wrongly when they suppose that

in order to combat error, they must not allow their opponents to have

the least right on their side ; no opinion in the world hardly is utterly

Iwrong. We must be catholic spirits, and do not think we shall be

Ithe less sound for having been, in the dreary years that are past, tossed

about, attached to parties. When see a man change his opinions

Ioften, say, ' This might be made a catholic and valuable mind, if he

were well grounded in first principles.' But alas ! men build on the

sand. My great prayer is to be led into all truth."

"... IYou ask me whether    like Tersteegen.*                      May 10.
                                                     The whole book

seems to me a beautiful fallacy ; his great fault the putting out of sight

the fact of man's free will and moral responsibility. He makes man a

machine capable of feeling, but not a being, not only capable of per

forming intellectual operations, but commanded to perform them. This

appears in his always calling the soul ' she.' The church is feminine

in her mystical relation to Christ, as a collective body ; but her

several parts and members, the individual souls, are no more femi
nine than each individual portion of the body. Do you see the

analogy? A woman is not a completely passive being. She has

to exert her will and her emotions, and not to let them lie dormant.

Even so have individual members of the church to exert their own
faculties, both for their own salvation, and the extension of Christ's

kingdom.

* Gerhard Tersteegen's " Life and Works," translated by Samuel Jackson.

68 Charles Kingshy.

" I am liking more and more the experimental religion of the Low
IChurch School.
                 am astonished at the depth and subtlety of know
ledge of the human heart, which many of them display. It is so

refreshing after the cold dogmatism of the High Church. Both are good in

their way. But /want, like such men as Leighton, Jewell, and Taylor, to

combine both the dogmatic and the experimental. We must be catholic ;

we must hold the whole truth ; we must have no partial or favourite views

Iof Christianity, like the Dissenters and the Tractarians. The more look,

the more I see how superior the divines of the seventeenth century were

to the present generation, and how they have been belied by the

Tractarians. I am afraid of giving a judgment on these men, but if I
did not read 'Judge not that ye be not judged,' I should assert them to

be not only disingenuous and cowardly, but false          These are my
                                                         What a man is
secret opinions-- mind, I say opinions not convictions.

convinced is true, that God constrains him to tell out fearlessly; but his
opinions-- by which are properly meant suspicions of the truth of a fact

which are derived from insufficient grounds, these opinions I say, he is
bound to keep to himself (except to ask advice on them) if they belong

to points where harm may be done, lest having reason to change them,

he should find out hereafter that he has been teaching a lie ! Horrible

thought ! But what I have just said shows that it is a moral duty to

make ourselves thoroughly acquainted with all the facts of a case, that

the danger of taking up views on insufficient grounds, and so using, or
rather mis-using our opinions, as if they were convictions, may be as

.... Imuch as possible lessened ; but to you may state my opinions and

convictions."

                                                                                                            May 23.

  " I want you to write to me about the Oxford tracts, and tell me
your opinions definitively on them. I have read and studied some of

the tracts, and their poetry and nouvellettes, which give glimpses

into the ascetic tone of their writers' minds, and serve as keys to the

peculiar form of principles which they have adopted, and which is all
wrong I believe before God  I fear lest these men should have

bewildered you with their sophistries and their artful appeals to your

....veneration, imagination, and perception of the beautiful."

"...cere.'                                              Golftyn, Flint., June 5, 1842.

            IfI can understand your not liking me to say ' * * * be sin
          IBut think I am justified in my expression. I do not think
Ithat * * * advocates principles which he does not himself believe, but

   do believe that he uses arguments and statements to further those

                            Oxford Tracts.                                                       69

principles which he knows to be false and illogical. He is a man

of great learning, of extensive reading, and he therefore cannot be igno

rant that neither the Fathers nor the Anglican Divines held in the main

the doctrines in support of which he quotes their writings, and that they
do positively, in parts of their writings which he has not quoted, argue

strongly against the very points which he wishes to show they support.

And this is an insincerity              His style of argument is the same as
                   Do not fancy I have read all their works. I have
I ....the Jesuits
read all had time for. But my chief knowledge of them is from the

quotations of their great adversary Goode.*                                        My idea about

quotations is this. Communication is now made so easy and quick by

the increase of civilization, that no man of name or standing dare mis

quote another. And though it might be said that these quotations are

only partial, and that we must read all to know what they really mean,

I feel certain from experience that single sentences contain the pith of
a man's opinions, more than pages of ' talk,' and I know enough of

these men from my own reading, to know that to read all would rather

endanger my opinions by mystifying me in the mass of words, and

soothing me when I found opinions with which I did agree. But taking

these single quotations, of whose genuineness it is easy to satisfy one

self, one gets at the great dogmatic truths which they hold, and one can
ask them, ' Either prove that this single sentence is right, or confess that

as all your system hinges upon                                  therefore all your system wrong.
       II                                                                                is
             I

                      it

                                 I
                                                           it,
....Feeling this waited, when first interested myself upon the point
        till something should come out which should make 'row,' because
in that knew the pith of their opinions would lie. Out came Tract                  ;I a

No. 90.  read scientifically, and made up my opinion at once as to

them and their opinions much more safely than                           '      had waded through    is a

thousand pages of their previous cautious aesthetic verbiage. Pusey's letteriIf

         is,                                                                             have looked

                  I'
                                     a
to Oxford as you say, good digest of their views

through Newman on Justification.' Faber's Sights and Thoughts in
                                                                                   with you. It
Foreign Churches'  read lately, and must read                                  it

sometimes very beautiful, but seems to me all wrong. Do not read

Palmer on the Church yet.               began                   it,   and in the first ten lines he
         is                                                         it
                   a

                      is

                            I
'  begs the question,' and thereby establishes fallacy on which all the
                                                                        II a
rest of his book built. We will read cautiously together

My letter stupid and unsatisfactory, because am dead tired to-day,

consequent on mountain walk yesterday.                                        began at four o'clock

a.m., and was moving until seven o'clock in the evening under a burning

sun, and the valley was wind-locked by the mountains, so that about

                   *        Afterwards Dean of Ripon.

  70 Charles Kingsley,

  Inoon had to get a breath of fresh air, in my own wild way, by
  climbing 1000 feet to the top of a mountain, and enjoying the sea of
Ihills around me
            I had the severest day's work ever had, for
  I Iknew my mother liked trout, and though it was a bad fishing day,

  tried all my skill to get her a dish, and succeeded. Oh that delicious

alder-fringed stream, with its clear shallows, and deep boiling pools,

Ifringed with wild flowers ! How longed for you ! . . . . Will you get

  ....Whateley's ' Kingdom of Christ,' and read              it.     His the greatest mind
                                                                        is
  of the present day."
                                                                           !
  "... jfuneS, 1842.
              Thank God, your religion depends not upon 'assurances,'          a
and states of feeling, and emotions,' and all the other modes of excit
    is                                                                                ;
              is

                                   !
                                                 '

                                   I
ing self-worship in which the Dissenters place their trust, nor again in

outward formularies which may be omitted through sickness or weari

ness, as the Papist and the Tractarian does, but in faith and holiness,

that which in the power of a little child How much less exacting
                                                             !

God than Man We say often, would not be loved for my person

or my talents only, by my husband or my wife, let him or her perform

their duties ever so well. Men will often not accept of love which                               is

grounded on insufficient, or illogical reasons and rightly so in the pre
                                                             ;
                                                                ;
sent state of our knowledge and constitution but God, on the other

hand says, Only love me, even for the least of my attributes. Love
    if '

        it
'I!'....me blindly, you will, but strongly enough to act upon your love, and
    will requite utterly
     "Amuse yourself--get poetry and read -- have book called
                                                                 it  I

....Tennyson's Poems,' the most beautiful poetry of the last fifteen years
    Shall send you . . . What                                is  our present dreariness and
    I

              it
                 it

                                ?

                                                       .
weariness to what would have been two thousand years ago We                              it a I
                                                                                              ?
have now the Rock of Ages to cling to. Then, --there would have been
nothing but mist -- no certainty but that of our own misery --no hope
but the stillness of death -- Oh we are highly favoured. When watch

the workings of the ancient minds, weighed down with the sense of the

mystery of life, and giddy with the ceaseless whirl of matter and mind

through infinite obscurity, then feel how safe we are Such man asI

Lucretius, or Pyrrho, seeing nothing but eternal change -- motion --

heaven and earth one vast dreary all-devouring vortex, sucking in to
destruction all beauty and life and goodness, and reproducing -- with

that horrid change --destroyed consciousness. Such men as these, to

whom the universe seemed one everlasting fiend-dance, infinite in its;

dreariness, eternal in its howlings --hero-minds, bowed down with the
terror of helplessness, and the degradation of ignorance --phantom-

                        Deacon's Ordination.                                71

builders, trying in vain to arrange the everlasting chaos round them :--

these were the wise of old. And we, by the alchemy of God's Spirit,

can by prayer systematize the chaos, and walk upon the rolling mists
of infinity, as on solid ground. All is safe -- for through all time, change

less and unbroken, extends the Rock of Ages ! And must we not thank

and"  thank for ever,  and toil and  toil for ever for Him ?  become  again  a
      Such a period    in your life
Ilittle child !                      as this, is the time to

                 do not mean a re-regeneration, but a permitting the

mind to assume that tone of calm wonder, and infantile trust, which will
allow all the innate principles within,--all God-bestowed graces which

have been bruised and bowed by the tempest, to blossom gently up

wards again, in ' the clear-shining after rain.' A breathing time in life this
should be, --not too much retrospection, or self-examination.
                                                                       Keep
that for the healthy and vigorous hours of the mind -- but a silent bask
ing in the light of God's presence --a time for faith, more than for

labour, for general and unexpressed, more than for particular and

earnest prayer. God means some good to you by thus prostrating you
-- perhaps He means by giving you blessings almost without your asking,

to show you how little avails morbid sensitiveness or self-tormenting
I ....stru"gTgleelsl.
            Synthetical minds are subject   to this self-torture  not  fancy
                                           expressions, and do
         me if am ever obscure in my
I Ithat if am obscure am therefore deep. If I were really deep, all the

world would understand, though they might not appreciate. The per

I ....fectly popular style is the perfectly scientific one. Tell me then when
am obscure, for to me an obscurity is a reason for suspecting a

fallacy  Pray simply, ' O God lead us into all Truth, and make us

like little children.' Do not repine when you feel no pleasure in the

offices of religion, the change is in you, and not in God, and the fact

of your being sensible of, and sorry for this change, shows that it is

caused by no cessation of your love to God or His grace to you --but

by physical weakness."

  Early in July he went to Farnham for his ordination. From

whence he writes :

                                                              July 7, 1842.

  I I" have finished the first day's examination better than expected,
I I Iand though was so nervous at first that could hardly stand, re

"Icovered myself tolerably afterwards. . . ."                         part   of
          shall hope to do tolerably to-morrow, and the greater

ISaturday shall give up to prayer and meditation, and fasting."

72 Charles Kingsley.

    "... FARNHAM, July 10, 1842.
            God's mercies are new every morning. Here I am waiting to be
admitted in a few hours to His holy ministry, and take refuge for ever

in His Temple ! . . . . Yet it is an awful thing ! for we promise,

virtually at least, to renounce this day not only the devil and the flesh,
but the world ;-- to do nothing, know nothing, which shall not tend to

the furtherance of God's Kingdom, or the assimilation of ourselves to

the Great Ideal, and to our proper place and rank in the great system

whose harmony we are to labour to restore. And can we restore
Ifharmony to the Church, unless we have restored it to ourselves?
                                                                   our

own souls are discords to the celestial key, the immutable symphonies

which revelation gives us to hear, can we restore the concord of the per

plexed vibrations round us ? . . . . We must be holy ! and to be holy

we must believe rightly as well as pray earnestly. We must bring to the
well of truth a spirit purified from all previous fancies, all medicines of

our own which may adulterate the water of life ! We must take of that

and not of our own, and show it to mankind. It is that glory in the
beauty of truth, which was my idol, even when I did not practice or
even know truth. But now that I know
it

                                                            ;

                                    I
                                           iIt,

                                                                                                     ;

                                                     I
                                                                                                       it,

                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                 can practise and carry

    out into the details of life now am happy now am safe  ..
    " We need not henceforward give up the beautiful for the true, but

to make the true the test of the beautiful, and the beautiful the object of

the true, until to us God appears in perfect beauty Thus every word
                                        ; it,
and every leaf which has beauty in will be as loved as ever, but they will
                                          if ;
all be to us impresses of the Divine hand, reflexes of the Divine mind,!

lovely fragments of once harmonious world, whose ruins we are to storeaI
                       it
up in our hearts, waiting till God restores the broken harmony, and weis aO

shall comprehend in all its details the glorious system, where ChristIa
                                                                                      !
all in all Thus we will love the beautiful because                     itpart of God,
    I:                                                         I is
though what part'                                                                     ! it
                                                                                                                          '
         'O !                                                                                         a is
                                we cannot see and love the true, because shows

us how to find the beautiful            But back back to the thought that in
                                 it
few hours my whole soul will be waiting silently for the seals of ad!

mission to God's service, of which honour dare hardly think myself

....worthy, while dare not think that God would allow me to enter onI

them unworthily                 Night and morning, for months, my prayer has

been           God  ; iIfam not worthy  my sin in leading souls from Thee

is  still unpardoned       iIf  am desiring to be deacon not wholly for the

sake of serving Thee       ;          be necessary to show me my weakness and

                             if

the holiness of Thy office still more strongly,  God reject me and

while shuddered for your sake at the idea of repulse, prayed to

be repulsed    if      were necessary, and included that in the meaning of my

                   it

petition Thy will be done.' After this what can consider my accept-

                    Parish of Eversley.                                                                                        73

Iance but as a proof that have not sinned too deeply for escape ! as

an earnest that God has heard my prayer and will bless my ministry,

and enable me not only to rise myself, but to lift others with me ! Oh !
.... Imy soul, my body, my intellect, my very love, dedicate you all to
God ! And not mine only                                                                          to be an example and an instrument
of holiness before the Lord for ever, to dwell in His courts, to purge
His temple, to feed His sheep, to carry the lambs and bear them to

that foster-mother whose love never fails, whose eye never sleeps, the
....Bride of God, the Church of Christ !                                                                I would have written when
I knew of

 !...."" Direct
               my   success yesterday, but                                                       there  was  no  town   post.
                to  me next at Eversley

   And now Charles Kingsley settled down, at the age of twenty-
three, in Eversley ; little thinking it would be his home for thirty-

three years.

   The parish of Eversley* (Aper's lea) was mostly common land
when he became curate, divided into three hamlets, each stand

ing on its own little green, surrounded by the moorland, with
young forests of self-sown fir trees cropping up in every direction.
The population was very scattered -- " heth croppers " from time

immemorial and poachers by instinct and heritage. It was on
the borders of Old Windsor Forest, the boundaries of which
reached the adjoining parish of Finchampstead ; and the old men

could remember the time when many a royal deer used to stray

into Eversley parish. Every man in those days could snare his
hare, and catch a good dinner of fish in waters not then strictly
preserved ; and the old women would tell of the handsome
muffs and tippets, made of pheasants' feathers, not bought with

silver, which they wore in their young days. To use their

rector's own words, after sixteen years' residence among them :

Pla*ce"s,'It"  is my decided opinion," says                                                      Mr.   Isaac Taylor,    author of ' Words and
               that you are right in taking the                                                         of Eversley as  oneof the few remaining
                                                                                                 name
records of the former existence of the wild boar in England. In Anglo-Saxon a wild
boar, eofor. An Anglo-Saxon eo commonly answers to modern English e, and Anglo-
Saxon f to modern English v, and Anglo-Saxon o often to English e. All these
changes are seen in the word seven, which in Anglo-Saxon was written seofon. Hence
Anglo-Saxon eofor would take the English form ever (genitive evers). Of course ever
and eofor are not derived from Latin aper, but are only cousin words derived from a
--Ncoema"wmsToFhoronetraolAasfstr.tyoapsne--ynllSpaeabptrlaeesn"ttuo.WrfaogEerdves rmsalonerdye
                                                                                                 is the Anglo-Saxon leak, which means a bosky place
                                                                                                  or less wooded, like the unenclosed glades in the

                                                                                                 Places," Chap. XIV., or Index, Eversley.

74 Charles Kingsley.

" The clod of these parts, is the descendant of many generations of

broom squires and deer stealers ; the instinct of sport is strong within

him still, though no more of the Queen's deer are to be shot in
the winter turnip fields, or worse, caught by an apple-baited hook hung

from an orchard bough. He now limits his aspirations to hares and

pheasants, and too probably once in his life ' hits the keeper into the

river,' and re-considers himself for a while over a crank in Winchester

Igaol. Well, he has his faults, and have mine. But he is a thorough

good fellow nevertheless. Civil, contented, industrious, and often very

handsome ; a far shrewder fellow too --owing to his dash of wild
forest blood, from gipsy, highwayman, and what not -- than his bullet-

headed and flaxen-polled cousin, the pure South Saxon of the chalk

downs. Dark-haired he ruddy, and tall of bone swaggering his
;                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                             in
             a
                       a

                      it
                            is is,

                                                  a
youth but when he grows old,                         thorough gentleman, reserved, stately,
and courteous as prince                              "*

Eversley Manor,            said, was granted to the monks of West

minster by charter from Edward the Confessor. It appears

from the charter that there was then a church at Eversley.

William the Conqueror renewed the grant of the manor. We

learn from Domesday Book, that
a

                      it

                                                a

                                                                                               :
"The abbey of St. Peter, Westminster, holds Eversley, and four
              as four manors allodially of King Edward. It was
freemen held
....then assessed at five hides, now at four hides. Here are
                                                                                                     and ten

villeins, and four borderers with three ploughlands, two mills worth io$if.,

   wood which pays 301-.,  messuage in Winchester which pays yd., and
twelve acres of meadow.    Its value was, in the time of King Edward,

IOO.T., afterwards 4/. ios., and now4/."

It appears still to have belonged to the church of Westminster,

in 1280; but must ere long have passed from its possession,
              it

for Bishop Woodlock of Winchester, in the early years of the

fourteenth century, instituted a priest to Eversley, on the pre

sentation of Nicholas Heigheman. The chancel of the church

dates from about the time of Henry VII.

The great peculiarity of the parish are the fir trees, of which

there are three fine specimens on the rectory lawn.                                                  In his
" Winter Garden " he thus speaks of them
              *

                                                                                                  :
              "Winter Gardens-- Prose Idylls, "p. 172.


ca.
B

H
>

                    Scenery and Fir-forest.                75

   "Whether, as we hold traditionally here, the Scotch fir was re
introduced by James I. when he built Bramshill for Henry the prince,
or whatever may have been the date of their re-introduction, here

they are, and no one can turn them out. In countless thousands

the winged seeds float down the south-west gales from the older trees ;
and every seed which falls takes root in ground which, however unable
to bear broad-leaved trees, is ready by long rest for the seeds of the

needle-leaved ones. Thousands perish yearly; but the eastward march
of the whole, up hill and down dale, is sure and steady as that of

Lynceus' Goths in Goethe's Helena :

                    ' Ein lang und breites Volksgewicht,
                      Der erste wusste vom letzten nicht.

                      Der erste fie], der zweite stand,
                      Des dritten Lanze war zur Hand,
                     Ein jeder hundertfach gestiirkt ;
                      Erschlagne Tausend unbemerkt. '

till, as you stand upon some eminence, you see, stretching to the east

....ward of each tract of older trees, a long cloud of younger ones, like a
great comet's tail    Truly beautiful --grand indeed to me it is --

to see young live Nature thus carrying on a great savage process in the

heart of this old and seemingly all-artificial English land ; and repro

*...."ducing here, as surely as in the Australian bush, a native forest, careless

of mankind

   For the first six weeks of his curate life he lived in the rectory
house, and the following letter contained a sketch of the lawn
and glebe from the drawing-room windows and a plan of the

room.

                      Eversley Rectory July 14, 1842.

" Can you understand  Imy sketch ?       am no drawer of trees, but the

view is beautiful. The ground slopes upward from the windows to a sunk

fence and road, without banks or hedges, and then rises in the furze

....hill in the drawing, which hill is perfectly beautiful in light and shade,
and colour          Behind the acacia on the lawn you get the first glimpse

of the fir-forests and moors, of which five-sixths of my parish consist.

Those delicious self-sown firs ! Every step I wander they whisper to

me of you, the delicious past melting into the more delicious future.
I' What has been, shall be,' they say !
                                         went the other day to Bramshill

                    * "Winter Garden," p. 167.

76 . Charles Kings Uy.

Park, the home of the seigneur de pays here, Sir John Cope. And
there I saw the very tree where an ancestor of mine, Archbishop Abbot,
Iin James the First's time, shot the keeper by accident !
Itree, and it all seemed to me like a present reality.           sat under the

                                                            could fancy the

noble old man, very different then from his picture as it hangs in the

dining room at Chelsea. I could fancy the deer sweeping by, and the

rattle of the cross-bow, and the white splinters sparkling off the fated
tree as the bolt glanced and turned -- and then the death shriek, and the
stagger, and the heavy fall of the sturdy forester -- and the bow drop

ping from the old man's hands, and the blood sinking to his heart in

one chilling rush, and his glorious features collapsing into that look of

changeless and rigid sorrow, which haunted me in the portrait upon the

wall in childhood. He never smiled again ! And that solemn form

always spoke to me, though I did not then know what it meant. It is

strange that that is almost the only portrait saved in the wreck of our

family.* As I sat under the tree, there seemed to be a solemn and

remorseful moan in the long branches, mixed with the airy whisper of

Ithelighter  leaves that told of present as well as past !  the  cool  of the
        am   going to dine at one to day, and walk all
   "
Ievening, for my head is sadly worn of late, and have been sermon -
Iwriting all the morning. My books are not come yet, and cannot set
to work in earnest -- perhaps it is as well, for I want rest, though I shall
not forget what * * * said about making fatigue a plea for indolence.
I Igo to the school every day, and teach as long as can stand the heat

and smell. The few children are in a room ten feet square and seven feet
Ihigh.
        am going after dinner to read to an old woman of 87 ; so you
see I have begun. This is a plan of my room. It is a large, low, front

room, with a light paper and drab curtains, and a large bow window,

Iwhere sit, poor me, solitary in one corner.

...I" must now set to work seriously on my essay                 July 16.

Ideal of information out of Shuttleworth.                   I got a great

                                           want you to read that

book, not so much for the purposes for which it was written (for you

are no sceptic), but to show you the great truth that Christianity is a

    * This picture of Archbishop Abbot, by Vandyke, came into the family through

William Kingsley, born 1626, Gentleman of the Privy Chamber to Charles II. son

of William Kingsley, Archdeacon of Canterbury, and Damaris his wife who was
niece to Robertus Abbot, Archbishop of Canterbury. The archbishop was a great
friend of Lord Zouche, then owner of Bramshill Park and while on a visit to him
killed the keeper by accident with a bolt from his cross-bow aimed at a stag. He

was suspended for a time, and, it is said, never smiled again.

                             Types and Mysticism.                                            77

progressive scheme, and that in Popery and Puseyism we violate
utterly the consistency of the scheme, by going back to the ' weak and
beggarly elements ' of coarse aesthetic types.

   " Oh, those types are a great mystery. And they are so much mis

taken. -
" The lowest is the commemorative type, like the cross.
" The
" The     next is the symbolical type, like the Jewish sacrifices.  in  the
          next highest grade is mystical, like the bread and wine

Eucharist, i. e., partly evident to the senses, partly having a transcen

dental efficacy as well as a transcendental meaning.

   " Lastly, comes the pure transcendental, to which we cannot attain

in imperfect bodies, completely. Nevertheless, in those who have the

....gift of the Holy Spirit, I think it is sometimes appreciable."

" The great mysticism is the belief which is becoming every day

stronger with me that all symmetrical natural objects, aye, and perhaps

all forms, colours, and scents which show organisation or arrangement,

are types of some spiritual truth or existence, of a grade between the

symbolical type and the mystic type. When I walk the fields I am
oppressed every now and then with an innate feeling, that everything I
Isee has a meaning, if could but understand it. And this feeling of being
surrounded with truths which I cannot grasp amounts to indescribable

awe sometimes ! Everything seems to be full of God's reflex, if we

could but see     it.    Oh how       have prayed to have the mystery unfolded,
at least hereafter          To see,
the great system       !!   To hear     but for moment, the whole harmony of

                                      once the music which the whole universe
                           !          if I

                                                         !

                                                         !a
makes as performs His bidding Oh, that heaven                    The thought of
!                                                                !
     it
                                                                      I

                                                                                            !

                                                                                        a

                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                         .
the first glance Creation from thence token we know even as zee areof

known and He, the glorious, the beautiful, the incarnate Ideal shall be

justified in all His doings, and in all and through all and over all!

When feel that sense of the mystery that around me, feel gushis
I

of enthusiasm towards God, which seems its inseparable effect .                                             .
All day, glimpses from the other world -- floating motes from that inner

transcendental life, have been flitting across me, just as they used in

childhood, when the seen and the unseen were one, an undistinguish-

able twin mystery the one not yet forgotten, the other not yet learnt
                         ;

                                  in
....so perfectly as to dazzle, by its coarse glare, the spirit-perceptions which
the soul learnt to feel another world                            Have you not felt that

your real soul was imperceptible to your mental vision, except at few
                                                                 ;

                                                                                          a
hallowed moments that in every-day life the mind, looking at itself,
                  is

                          ?
only sees the brute intellect, grinding and working not the Divine
particle, which life and immortality, and on which the Spirit of God

78 Charles Kingsley.

most probably works, as being most cognate to Deity ?                                More
Iand more do
                     see daily the tremendous truth that all our vaunted
intellect is nothing -- nothing but a noble mechanism, and that the source

of feeling is the soul. This thought begins to explain to me the mys
                                                                        "
teries of moral responsibility   and moral culture
                                                            . .. .

   Before his coming, the church services had been utterly

neglected. It sometimes happened that when the rector had a

cold, or some trifling ailment, he would send the clerk to the

church door at eleven, to inform the few who attended that
there would be no service. In consequence the ale-houses were

full on Sunday and the church empty, and it was up-hill work

getting a congregation together.

   July 17th was the young curate's first day of public ministra

tion in Eversley Church, and he felt it deeply.

  " I was not nervous," he says, " for I had prayed before going
into the desk that I might remember that I was not speaking on

my own authority, but on God's, and the feeling that the

responsibility         may so speak) was on God and not on me
                     (Iif
                              I
quieted the weak terror have of offending people."

   "...                                                            Eversley, July 17.
   I     have read your ideas about baptism and fully agree with you
--but hope you do not hold * * *'s and the Romish Church's views'I
about baptismal purity. * * * dare not mean that original sin
                                                            it                       done

                                                                                '

                                                                            is
                                                                               a is
away with at baptism the Romish Church asserts is. Our Article
                       if ;
denies it. This infection        'says, doth remain, yea, even in those that
                               it
                                                                                     non
                                          '
                                                   '
are regenerate,' and,   this be the case, baptismal purity
                                                      '
entity, and the Oxford clap-trap, Wash your baptismal robe white again
                                                        is
with the tears of penance,' pretty school-boy metaphor in itself, but
                                a

unfortunately heretical. Do you read the Articles often Remember,
                                                            it
I  ....have sworn to them, and can never leave them without leaving the
                     '                                                 ?
Church
                       it
                            is

                             I
                     We must be careful on these dogmatic points.          know
                                                                           I
some people say,        little use troubling oneself about barren dog
                                                                               it
matism, provided the practical spirituality what should be.' But
                                                                                 is if I
....though will do very well for a priest-ridden Romish paysanne, will
        it

                  a
not do for woman of deep and delicate mind                                 Whereby

return to Baptism.   I  intend to preach repentance in a different form

from what generally done. The Evangelicals preach to sinners asis

they were heathens, and to them the regular history of man's mind
                                                            a

                        Books and Work.                                          79

that he should live as a heathen till he is eighteen or twenty, and then

be converted and suddenly commence a strong profession ; as if he had

not been all his life a member of the Church, a child of God, and an

inheritor of the kingdom of heaven ! See, by this view, what an argu
ment to repentance they omit ; I would say, ' You have had the grace of
God given you -- you are a Christian whether you like it or not --you

have taken vows upon you, and your guilt is the greater, because you

have thereby swindled heaven                          may use the expression) out of so
        it
           if is

                        (if

                                                   ;

                                   (Iif
many blessings by promising what you have not performed. You have

the Holy Spirit in you striving with you. You are not, as the Evan

gelicals would say their principles were carried out), to wait for God's
grace --
                    in you already you have nothing to do, but to rise and

walk, and you do not, so much the greater will be your condemnation.'

All the theory of irresistible grace falls before the Scripture truth of

the Spirit's being given in Baptism, and the Arminian and Calvinist

doctrines on preventing grace are thereby reconciled and, as you say,
it
    is

                   !

                     I

                      II

                                         it

                                             I

                                                                    it

                                                    is I
                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                it.
                                                                                                         it
the only philosophic view.
" Dangerous or not as
                                           may appear,  will preach  Three and

twenty years have seen truth made practically null by modifying to

suit circumstances.     will have none of it.              will make myself all
things to all men, but  will keep truth as              -- the same, immutable,
eternal "

"...            ;I I                                                                          ICVKKSLEY, Alt£. 1842.

                    have been trying to work at my Essay all the morning after
reading a chapter in your Degerando on False Sensibility.' * How that
                                                      '

                                                          II
man knows the depths of the human heart.                      have suffered so much
from some of the faults he mentions there -- mean dreaming, and the

inordinate love of the beautiful. And now my dreams are confined to

what will be, God willing and my love of the beautiful has become so
                      I
                                     ;
harmonised with the possible, that everything that fit appears to me
                                                              is

beautiful.            seldom see an ugly face now, and can find loveliness in

eve"rythhinagv,e    and yet delight        in  exceeding beauty more than ever.  worn
I                   been unable to         do   much to-day, for my brains were

by two whole services and two baptisms yesterday, the hottest day

of the year and in the evening, after drinking tea with my friend,

Mr. (remember George Herbert advises the parson to drink tea
out Sunday nights), came home and wrote sermon for Chelsea till
                      *
near twelve. To-day                        hotter than yesterday, possible, so wan
                          I                                   if

                               it                                            aI

                                       is
dered out into the fields, and have been passing the morning in lonely

                      Degerando, "Du Perfectionnement moral."

80 Charles Kingsley.

woodland bath-- a little stream that trickles off the moor -- with the
hum of bees, and the sleepy song of birds around me, and the feeling
of the density of life in myriads of insects and flowers strong upon
me, drinking in all the forms of beauty which lie in the leaves and
pebbles, and mossy nooks of damp tree roots, and all the lowly intrica
cies of nature which no one stoops to see ; and while eye and ear were
possessed with the feeling that all had a meaning -- all was a type -- a
language, which we should know in heaven, the intellect was not dream

ing asleep, but alternately investigating my essay-subject, and then

wandering away to you. And over a'l, as the cool water trickled on,
hovered the delicious sense of childhood, and simplicity, and purity and
peace, which every temporary return to a state of nature gives l A

woodland bath to me always brings thoughts of Paradise. I know not

whether they are foretastes of the simple bliss that shall be in the
renovated earth, or whether they are back glimpses into the former
ages, when we wandered -- beside the ocean of eternal love ! Do you
remember ? *

                                   ' Hence in a season of calm weather,

                                       When inland far we be,
                                   Our souls have sight of that eternal sea
                                     That brought us hither !
                                     Can see the children sport upon the shore,
                                     And hear the mighty waters rolling evermore.'t

" I read some of the sermons by authors of ' Tracts for the Times,'

Iwhich you gave me.  There is the same moaning piety in them, and
                     was frightened at a sermon of Newman's on
something darker.
' Christian Reverence,' in which he tries to show that Christ used to
' deter ' people and repel them ! And he illustrates by the case of the

young ruler, and says that He was severe on Nicodemus, and that ' He
Imade Himself strange and spake roughly ' to those who inquired. This
is very dark and dismal.  had thought that we were to ' come

boldly to the throne of grace.' But, no ! we are to return, under

Christianity, to the terrors of the law. We are to become 'again entan

gled with the yoke of bondage' (mind that verse), by having to expiate our

  * " And this follows, Socrates, from that doctrine, which you have often insisted

on : that our acquired knowledge is merely recollected knowledge ; and that therefore
on that account, we must in some previous state, have acquired what we recover the

recollection of in this. And this would be impossible if our souls had not been
somewhere before they were in this human form. And thus in this way too we have
evidence that the soul is of an immortal nature." -- Cebes to Socrates, in Plato's

Phaedo," Whewell's Translation, vol. i. p. 381.

   t Wordsworth's "Ode on the Intimations of Immortality."

                Christian Religion Anthropomorphic.                     81

own sins by fasting, alms, and penance ! Is this the liberty with which
IChrist has made us free ?
                                             declare (I speak under God's correction
and with reverence) that if these doctrines be Christianity, we should be
....happier here, and safer hereafter, as Jews or heathens !
                                                                        Can

you not see what my horror of popery and tractarianism arises from ?
Do you not see that if you once allow of good works having any expia

tory power, you do away with all real morality, because you destroy its
Ifdisinterestedness !
                               a man does good works to be saved from hell by

them, what is he but selfish ? We ought to do good works from grati
tude to Christ, and from admiration of His character

   " Do you not see the noble standard of Christian morality, and its

infinite superiority to this ? And what does Newman end with ? He

infers from Christ's reserve that we are not to solicitously press the

truth on those who do not profit by what they already possess It
                                                        (!)
                                                                 '

                                                                              !'
                                                                                             '
                                                                                                         !
                                                                                                          is
casting pearls before swine        '/                thought God's command was to us,
                                      !'
....as to the prophets of old, Cry aloud and spare not          Lift up thy

voice like a trumpet.'                       Moreover, he says that the point to be

kept back at first the doctrine of the Atonement, which he supports by
                is
the astonishing assertion that the Atonement does not form prominenta
                                                              !
                           is                                    a
point in Apostolic teaching
   " Talking of the Tractators -- so you still like their tone
                                   !                                And so do

is I.  There    solemn and gentleman-like, and gentle earnestness whichI

       most beautiful, and which wish may ever attain. But you have
                                                     I

just as much reason for following them, or even reading them much on

that account, as the moth has for fluttering round the candle because
                                                        is
       bright. The case hackneyed but the analogy perfect."
is                             is                                                    a it
                                         is
       " The Christian religion all through anthropomorphic, or suited to

the intellect and feelings of finite man, and proposing the worship of

....God, not only manifested as similar to us in intellect and feelings, but
even incarnate  a human body                            Now this religion appeals to
                a
                        in

                                          it
                                                 is
the intellect of mankind for its truth, as you will find in many parts of
Scripture -- plain fact that
                                                     comprehensible by that intellect that
                                                                    ;

is     to say, all the anthropomorphic part of it. All that part again which

connects this particular scheme, with God's infinite scheme of eternity

and the whole universe, transcendental, and not to be understood, and
                               is

there we must not intrude. Such are the doctrines of the Trinity,

Incarnation, Free will, and Predestination, and the operation of the

Holy Spirit. But for all parts of the religion which belong particularly

to the Christian scheme, there we are commanded to search the Scrip

tures and satisfy ourselves as thoroughly as we can. Do not then'
assume a voluntary humility,' which we are cautioned against, and of

       vol. i.                                                      <;

82 Charles Kingsley.

which we know that it produced in the early ages the heresy of worship

ping angels, because men thought they were too vile and ignorant to

address God. In the Romanist Church it has produced the same

effect ; and now the Tractarians wish to bring in this ' voluntary
humility ' among the laity, cautioning them against examining the

mysteries of religion for themselves, in order to make them worship the

clergy. The principle is the same as in the dissenters of the Apostolic

age, but its object is different."

   " How simple everything seems by the light of God's Word, and

we need never lose that simple view unless we give way to morbid

fancies ! Let us watch against tones. They are unsafe things. The

tone of a man or woman's mind ought to be that of thoughtful reverence

and love ; but neither joy or sorrow or activity or passiveness, or any

other animal tone, ought to be habitual. The world is like an April
day, as poets say -- neither all smiles or all tears ! and to day my heart

is joyous, notwithstanding its anxieties, for the weather is a type of

!'...."what our future will be.  ' As the grass springing, by a clear shining

after rain
" There is a Calvinistic doctrine of God's intentionally withdrawing

His grace, which seems to me both unscriptural, and almost blasphe

mously inconsistent with his love, and with the text that ' God tempts

no man.' But with the Calvinist, God's love is not a prominent point.

However, my personal experience is too small to speak decidedly on

such a point ; but this I know, that ' God will give His Holy Spirit to

them that ask Him.' . . . ."
" Do not reject Ward law because he is a Presbyterian.
                                                                    The poor
man was born so --you know. It is very different from a man's dissent

ing personally. Besides your business is with the book, not with the

author. Give up that habit of identifying books and men. Only our

ideas of such people as Homer, Shakespeare and Dante, ought to be
                                                                 "
allowed  to influence  our ideas of what they wrote.  .  .  .
                                                               .
" My views of poverty are very strange. Had I been a Haroun
Alraschid, with every sense ' lapped in Elysium,' I could have enjoyed

all. The man who cannot enjoy, cannot be healthy, and cannot be

Iself-denying. But had been a prairie hunter, cold and nakedness and
toil would have been no evils to me. I could have enjoyed that which
Iwas given me, and never, believe firmly, remembered that there were

greater sensual pleasures in life."

" Never depreciate, according to the foolish way of sentimentalists,

the brotherly love of men        Remember the sanctity attached to it

in Scripture, and believe that in this, as in other things, the man is the

           Bunsen on Schools of Thought.  85

rather indicated than traced by Bacon. History has here to name --

first, the genius of Coleridge, greater still by his inspiring influence

than his own writings. The progress in this line is marked, in two

....diverging directions and schools, by Frederick Maurice and by Thomas
Carlyle."  As Maurice may be called the Semitic exponent of the

....deepest elements of English thought and life in this field, Carlyle, as a
philosopher on history,  may be designated its Anglo-Germanic

prophet. He considers it his principal vocation to point out that all

real progress, and all development in history, are due, as far as man is

concerned, to the inward truth and reality in man, and in the highest

degree, to the 'heroes of mankind.' Both individuals and nations who

act against that reality fulfil their destiny in perishing. Although his

exposition and that of Maurice may appear diametrically opposed to

each other, the continental inquirer, will easily discern in both the same

national instinct to consider real life and action as the final object of

man, as the highest reality of thought, and the safest, if not the only
safe standard of truth." *

   * "The system of thought of the first (Maurice), as contained principally in hisit,
'Kingdom of Christ,' his 'History of Ethic Philosophy,' and his ' Lectures on the
Religions of the World,' may with reference to the present enquiry, be said to have
its centre in the following ideas. Maurice believes that the conscience of men in the

present day is at war with the popular theology, and that this theology, as well
among Romanists as Protestants, as well in England as on the Continent, is ineffectual,

because it contemplates humanity, not as created and constituted in Christ, but as a
fallen Evil state, out of which Christ came to redeem a certain number of those who

believe in Him. This theology he holds not to be that of the Bible, or of the Church,
as represented in the Creeds of Christendom. The Bible represents Man as formed in
the image of God ; the Fall as the rebellious effort of the individual Man to deny that
glory for himself, i.e., to deny his human condition. This denial, beginning with the
first man, is continued in all his descendants ; the flesh of each struggling against that
law of kind under which God has placed it. The Bible is an orderly history of God's
Education of a particular race to understand the divine constitution of humanity, and
the possibility of a man, by faith, living according to it. This Education does not
contradict pagan records, but explains them, and shows how the living Word was in

all places and in all times the light of Men. Christ, not Adam, represents humanity.
Christ's redemption is in the revelation of humanity in its true state and glory. The

faith of a man is in the privilege which God has conferred on his race. Since the
appearance of Christ, the Kingdom of God is come and coming : we live in it. The
incarnation, death, resurrection, and ascension of Christ, the gift of the Spirit, the

formation of Churches, were the preparation for a judgment upon the old world,

a judgment answering strictly to the anticipations of it in the Apostolical Epistles.
Then began the New Dispensation, or Kingdom of God, based upon the full revela

tion of His name, the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, a kingdom
for men as men. The baptized Church is the witness of this kingdom. God has

educated the nations by precisely in the same sense and under the same limitations
as He educated the nations in the old world by the Jews. The Old Testament

86 Charles Kingsley.

   Circumstances now caused a long break in this correspon
dence, but the faith and patience with which the trial was met
may be seen in these parting words, or perhaps still more in
some rules, intended for one eye only, but from which ex
tracts have been made, in the hope they may help others who
have the same thorny road to travel, without such a friend and

guide.

 "... EVERSLEV, August, 1842.
               Though there may be clouds between us now, yet they are
safe and dry, free from storm and rains -- our parted state now is quiet

grey weather, under which all tender things will spring up and grow,

beneath the warm damp air, till they are ready for the next burst of

sunshine to hurry them into blossom and fruit. Let us plant and rear

...all tender thoughts, knowing surely that those who sow in tears shall
reap in joy.            I can understand people's losing by trusting too little
!...."to God, but I cannot understand any one's losing by trusting too much

to Him
   " There are two ways of looking at every occurrence -- a bright and a
dark side. Two modes of action --Which is most worthy of a rational
being, a Christian and a friend ? It is absurd, as a rational being, to
torture one's self unnecessarily. It is inconsistent in a Christian to see

God's wrath, rather than His mercy in everything                                  How to avoid
this morbidity of mind -- by prayer. ' Resist the devil and he will flee

from you ' By turning your mind from the dark view. Never begin

to look darkly at a subject, without checking yourself and saying, ' Is

there not a bright side to this ? Has not God promised the bright

Iside to me? Is not my happiness in my own power? Do I not know

that am ruining my mind and endangering the happiness of those
dear to me -- by looking at the wrong side ? ' Make this your habit.

Every gift of God is good, and given for our happiness ; and we sin
if we abuse
                        To use our fancy to our own misery                        to abuse and
              it.

                                                         a
                                                                                      a

                                                                                    is

                                                                                                               it,
                                                                                                       it

                                                                                                                              is

                                                                                                         it
                                                                                                                              it
to sin -- the realm of the possible was given to man to hope, and not to
Iffear in
              sins --(inmsoourrronw)fotrhethetmho,ugahntd  strikes you that we are pun
ished for                                                  not for the happiness which
our

remains to us an explanation of the conditions of national life, which                          just as

precious and necessary in the New Dispensation as in the Old. The New Testament
Ifexplains the full law and glory of humanity.
                                                           nation cannot fulfil the idea of the

Old Testament by acknowledging righteous invisible king over                      will sink into
                        If humanity
godless absolutism.                  doBeus nsneont'sac"kHnoywplpeodglyehisit.s"  constitution  in Christ,
will sink into godless  democracy."                                                 Ibid.

                             Parting Words.                                                  87

they have prevented. Rather thank God that He has stopped us in
time, and remember His promises of restoring us if we profit by his

chastisement.

   " In cases of love to God and working to His glory in the first and
second intention read Taylor's ' Holy Living.' But eschew his Popish

fallacy about duties as different from perfections. Every step in love and
to God, and devotion to Him is a duty ! That doctrine was invented

to allow mankind to exist, while a few self-conceited shut themselves up

in a state of unnatural celibacy and morbid excitement, in order to

avoid their duty, instead of doing                            Avoid the Fathers, after Origen
                                                 ! it.
                                                          is

                                                                   is
                                                                                 a

                                                                                    a
....(including him), on this account -- their theories are not universal
   "... We may think too much There such thing as mysti
fying one's self Mystifying one's self thinking dozen thoughts in
                       it is
order to get to conclusion, to which one might arrive by thinking onea!
                                                                                             :
                                          it                                                                ;
getting at ideas by an unnecessarily subtle aud circuitous path then,

because one has been through many steps, one fancies one has gone       is

deep. This one form of want of simplicity. This not being likea
  little child, any more than analysing one's own feelings. A child goes

straight to its point, and hardly knows why. When you have done                              a
thing, leave alone. You mystify yourself after the idea, not before.
Second thoughts may be best before action -- they are folly after action,

unless we find we have sinned. The consistent Christian should have

no second thoughts, but do good by the first impulse. How few attain

to this.                 do not object to subtlety of thought but                            dangerous
a                                                                   :                        near God.
for one who has no scientific guide of logic, &c.
       it I" Aim at depth.                                                   it it
                                                                                   is is
                     :;  A   thought             deep in proportion as
                                              is
                                                            a
You may be subtle, and only perceive trifling property of the subject,

which others do not. To be deep, you must see the subject in its rela
tion to God -- yourself-- and the universe and the more harmonious and
                                                 is
                                                        ;               is. All the deep
simple                 seems, the nearer God and the deeper         it

things of God are bright -- for God light. The religion of terror                            ; is

the most superficial of all religions. God's arbitrary will, and almighty

power, may seem dark by themselves, though deep, as they do to the

Calvinists but that because they do not involve His moral character.is

Join them with the fact that He                               God of mercy as well as justice
                                              is
                                                      is

                                                          ;a
remember that His essence love -- and the thunder-cloud will blaze

with   dewy            gold, full of soft rain, and pure light   !
      Again              remember that habit, more than reason,
   "                                                                will               cure  one both

of mystifying subtlety and morbid fear and remember that habits are
                                                              ;

   series of individual voluntary actions, continued till they become

involuntary. One would not wish to become good by habit, as the

Aristotle-loving Tractarians do but one must acquire tones of mind by
                                              ;

88 Charles Kingsley.

habit, in cases in which intellectual, not moral obliquity, or constitutional

ill-health is the cause of failure.                       What I mean
   " Some minds are too ' subjective.'                            is                   that they may
                                                                               !) is,
devote themselves too much to the subject of self and mankind. Now
man not the noblest study of man.' (What lies the trashy poets of
is
             '

                       a
                                           !)
                                                is
Pope and Johnson's age tell, which are taken as gospel, and acted upon,
because the idol said so   God the noblest study of man. He the
                                                                                                      ! ! is
only study fit for woman devoted to Him. And Him you can study                                             a

in three ways.                                                    the real Philosophy of
   " ist. From His dealings in History. This

History. Read Arnold's Lectures on Modern History.' (Oh why
did that noblest of men die God have mercy upon England He
!
                                                    '                                                 And read as

                                                   ?
                                                               a
takes the shining lights from us, for our National sins

he tells us to read, not to study man la Rochefoucault, but God la

David
   " 2nd. From His image as developed in Christ the ideal, and in all good

men -- great good men -- David, Moses, St. Paul, Hooker, the four Oxford

martyrs, Luther, Taylor, Howard. Read about that glorious Luther                                              !!

and like him strive all your life to free men from the bondage of custom

and self, the two great elements of the world that lieth in wickedness

Read Maurice for this purpose, and Carlyle.
   " 3rd. From His works. Study nature -- not scientifically -- that would

take eternity, to do so as to reap much moral good from it. Superficial
                   is
                       it
physical science the devil's spade, with which he loosens the roots of

the trees prepared for the burning Do not study matter for its own
                                                    !
                                                            !
sake, but as the countenance of God Try to extract every line of

beauty, every association, every moral reflection, every inexpressible

feeling from  it.  Study the forms and colours of leaves and flowers, and

the growth and habits of plants not to classify them, but to admire
                           !;

                                     !
them and adore God. Study the sky Study water Study trees Study
                                                                  !
                                                                       ;

                                                                                                     !
the sounds and scents of nature Study all these, as beautiful in them

selves, in order to re-combine the elements of beauty next, as allegories

and examples from whence moral reflections may be drawn; next, as

types of certain tones of feeling, &c. but remain (yourself) in God-
                                                       ;

dependence, superior to them. Learn what feelings they express, but
do not let them mould the tone of your mind else by allowing a melan
                                                                  ;
                                                                                                   !
choly day to make you melancholy, you worship the creature more than

the Creator. No sight but has some beauty and harmony
   "Read geology -- Buckland's 'Bridgewater Treatise' and you will

rise up awe-struck and cling to God                 !
   " Study the human figure, both as intrinsically beautiful and as ex

pressing mind. It only expresses the broad natural childish emotions,

                       Parting Words.                         89

which are just what you want to return to. Study 'natural language' --
I mean the 'language of attitude.' It is an inexhaustible source of

knowledge and delight, and enables one human being to understand

another so perfectly. Draw, -- learn to draw and paint figures. No one

with such freedom of touch in landscape and perception of physical

beauty requires anything but a few simple rules, and some common
Ifattention to attitudes, to draw exquisitely.
                                                you can command your

....hand in drawing a tree, you can in drawing a face. Perfect your colour

ing It will keep your mind employed on objective studies, and
save you from morbid introversion of mind--brooding over fallen man.

It will increase your perception of beauty, and thereby your own har

mony of soul and love to God !
........ ...I" Practise music. -- am going to learn myself, merely to be able to
look after my singers  Music is such a vent for the feelings
    " Study medicine   I am studying it
                                                     . Make yourself

thoroughly acquainted with the wages, wants, and habits, and prevalent
diseases of the poor wherever you go.

   " Let your mind freely forth. Only turn it inwards at prayer

time, to recollect sins of which you were conscious at the time, not to

look for fresh ones. They are provided against by prayer for pardon of
unintentional sins. What wisdom in our Church ! She knew that if she

allowed sin hunting, people would fancy, like some Dissenters, that

pretending everything they had done was sinful, was a sign of holi

ness !                                               Look forward to the

   " Let your studies, then, be objective entirely.
future with hope. Build castles if you will, but only bright ones, and
not too many --better to live in the Past. We cannot help thanking

God for that ! Blessed Past ! Has not God led us like sheep through

the desert ? Think of all He has done for us         Be happy. . . .

Weep, but let them be tears of thankfulness.
   " Do not be too solicitous to find deep meanings in men's words.

Most men do, and all men ought to mean only what is evident at first

sight on their books (unless they be inspired or write for a private eye).
This is the great danger of such men as Novalis, that you never know

how much he means. Beware of subtlety again. The quantity of

sounding nonsense in the world is incredible ! If you wish to be like

a little child, study what a little child could understand --nature ; and
do what a little child could do -- love.

   " Use your senses much, and your mind little. Feed on Nature, and
do not try to understand it. It will digest itself. It did so when you
were a baby the first time ! Look round you much. Think little and

read less ! Never give way to reveries. Have always some employ

90 Charles Kingsley.

ment in your hands            When you are doing nothing at night, pray

and   praise !  much  a  day  can  do  !  I have since nine this morning, cut
      See how
   "

wood for an hour ; spent an hour and more in prayer and humilia

tion, and thereby established a chastened but happy tone, which lasts

till now ; written six or seven pages of a difficult part of my essay ;

taught in the school ; thought over many things while walking ; gone

round two-thirds of the parish visiting and doctoring ; and written all
this. Such days are lives -- and happy ones. One has no time to be

miserable, and one is ashamed to invent little sorrows for one's self

while one is trying to relieve such grief in others as would kill us, if we

gave way or fancied about them !

   " Pray over every truth, for though the renewed heart is not 'desperately
wicked,' it is quite ' deceitful ' enough to become so, if God be forgotten

a moment ! . . .                             not only facts and

   " Keep a common-place book, and put into
                                       it.
                                                         a
                                                                    it,

                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                it
thoughts, but observations on form, and colour, and nature, and little
sketches, even to the form of beautiful leaves. They will all have their

...charm, all do their work in consolidating your ideas. Put everything
into it.        Strive to put every idea into tangible form, and write

down. Distrust every idea which you cannot put into words or rather

distrust your own conception of           Not so with feelings. Therefore

write much. Try to put everything in its place in the great system
seeing the realities of Heaven and Earth."

                       CHAPTER V.

                                               1842-- 1843.
                                                     Aged 23-24.

Curate Life -- Letter from Colonel W. -- Brighter Prospects -- Correspon
       dence-- Renewed-- Promise of Preferment -- Leaves Eversley.

                  " And show

That life is not as idle ore,

But iron dug from central gloom,
   And heated hot with burning fears,
   And dipped in baths of hissing tears,

And batter'd with the shocks of doom

To shape and use."

                    TennVSon.

                        CHAPTER V.

  A YEAR passed by of silence and self-discipline, hard reading

and parish duties. That sorrow was doing its work, his own
words to his parents will testify.

"... Christianity heightens as well as deepens the human as well as
                        I am happy, for the less hope, the more
the divine affections.

faith       God knows what is best for us, and very lucky that He
Idoes, for am sure we do not. Continual resignation, at last I begin

to find, is the secret of continual strength. ' Daily dying,' as Behmen

            the path of daily living.
interprets  it,
                is

                                 :

                                                 a

                                                                                      .
                                                                                           .

                                                               ."
  His mother now paid, him visit, and she gives this account of
his surroundings --

      " Here am,                                                                       EVERSLEY, 1842.

                        humble cottage in the corner of a sunny green,
            I

                         in

                                  a
                                              a
                                                   is a
is alittle garden, whose flower-beds are surrounded with tall and aged box,

      fenced in from the path with                     low white paling. The green gay
                                                                                                  it is
with dogs, and pigs, and geese, some running frolic races, and others
                                                                                                                  !
swimming in triumph in glassy pond, where they are safe from all

intruders. Every object around either picturesque or happy, fulfilling

in    their different natures the end of their creation                                           Surely must

have been the especial providence of God that directed us to this place

and the thought of this brightens every trial. There independence in                          is

every good sense of the word, and yet no loneliness. The family at the

Brewery are devoted to Charles, and think they cannot do enough for

him. The dear old man says he has been praying for years for such a

time to come, and that Eversley has not been so blessed for sixty years.

Need say rejoice with me. Here sit surrounded by your books and
       I
                                        I

little things which speak of you."

94 Charles Kingsley.

   To his college friend, Peter A. L. H. Wood, Esq. (now Rector
of Copford, Essex) he writes to beg for a visit in his soli

tude.

" Peter !                      glaring                      Eversley, August 5, 1842.
      " Whether in the                  saloons of Almack's, or making love in

the equestrian stateliness of the park, or the luxurious recumbency of

the ottoman, whether breakfasting at one, or going to bed at three, thou
art still Peter, the beloved of my youth, the staff of my academic days,

Ithe regret of my parochial retirement !-- Peter ! am alone ! Around

me are the everlasting hills, and the everlasting bores of the country !

My parish is peculiar for nothing but want of houses and abundance of

Ipeat bogs ; my parishioners remarkable only for aversion to education,
and a predilection for fat bacon.       am wasting my sweetness on the
desert air -- I say my sweetness, for I have given up smoking, and smell

Ino more. Oh, Peter, Peter, come down and see me ! Oh that could

behold your head towering above the fir-trees that surround my lonely
                 ITake pity on me ! am ' like a kitten in the washhouse
dwelling.

copper     with  the  lid  on    '    And, Peter, prevail on some of your friends
                               !

here to give me a day's trout-fishing, for my hand is getting out of
           IBut, Peter,
practice.                      am, considering     the oscillations and perplex
Icircumgurgitations of this piece-meal world, an improved man.
                                                                                                       am

much more happy, much more comfortable, reading, thinking, and

Idoing my duty --much more than ever did before in my life. There
Ifore am not discontented with my situation, or regretful that I buried

my first-class in a country curacy, like the girl who shut herself up in a

band-box on her wedding night (vide Rogers's ' Italy                                                   And my
                      if

                                    I
                                                                                                  ').
lamentations are not general (for       do not want an inundation of the

froth and tide-wash of Babylon the Great), but particular, being solely

excited by want of thee, oh Peter, who art very pleasant to me, and

wouldst be more so thou wouldst come and eat my mutton, and drink

my wine, and admire my sermons, some Sunday at Eversley.

                                    " Your faithful friend,
                                             " Boanerges Roar-at-the-Clods."

   His friend responded to his call. " paid him visit," he says,a;a
" at Eversley, where he lived in thatched cottage. So roughly
was he lodged that recollect taking him some game, which wasI

dried to cinder in the cooking and quite spoiled but he was asif aI

happy as he were in palace.        a
                                        .
                                            .

                                               ."

          Brighter Days.                                      95

          TO R. COWLEY POWLES, Esq.

                                        Eversley, Dec. 13, 1842.
" I only heard the other day that you had got your first class. As
for telling you that I am delighted, you know me well enough to be sure
that your happiness, where so well earned, is mine. I do thank God
          You will, I suppose, now remain at Oxford, and drink
for you

still deeper of the academic fountain, for the purpose of fitting yourself

for the ministry. You have a noble path now open, and the moment

your mind and body are sufficiently recruited, you ought to begin new

studies, by the strength which old habits have given. There is no time

Ito be lost ; for see more and more daily that the times point to the

turning crisis of the Church, in which she will assert, by her younger

members, the perfection and sufficiency of her system, against either

dissent or the modifications of popery. The work lies in the hands of

young men ; for though old men may teach by precept, it is more

difficult for them to alter their previous modes of life than it is for a

man just entering on his work to come boldly forward and live and

think as Taylor, Herbert, Laud, and Wilson did. You ought to do

something. You have talent, energy, and self-restraint sufficient for the
Iwork, and I doubt not you will do your part. You will take pupils, I
          do not like to give advice, but if you could avoid
suppose.  I                                                   and

                                    a
                                                                ;

                                                                                                                                      :

                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                           it,

                                                                             I
push on from Classics to the study of Divinity, your mind would be

refreshed, instead of remaining iripi tS>v aroi\flav kvXivDov^vos. However,

receive my sincerest congratulations."

   And now the young curate, who had gained the love and
respect of the parish, was rewarded by brighter prospects. He
had little society, during his first year of curate life, except in

the parish and at Sandhurst, where he had one or two friends

in the Senior department of the Military College. One of these
friends thus describes their intercourse at this time --

                                       FROM COLONEL W.

   " My memory often runs back to the days at Sandhurst, when
used to meet dear Kingsley continually in his little curate rooms, at the
corner of the Green at Eversley when he told me of his attachment
to one whom he feared he should never be able to marry, and that he
supposed that he should live the rest of his life reading old books, and
knocking his head against the ceiling of his room, like caged bird.
And well remember particular Sunday, when walking with him to his

g6 Charles Kingsley.

church in the afternoon, having dined with him at mid-day. It was a
lovely afternoon in the autumn -- passing through the corn in sheaf, the

bells ringing, and people, young and old, gathering together near the

church. He, looking down on the Rectory-house, said to me
   " ' Oh ! how hard it is to go through life without wishing for the goods

of others ! Look at the Rectory ! Oh, if I were there with a wife,

how happy,' &c. God seemed to hear the desire of his creature, for

when the next year's corn was in sheaf, you were with him at the Rectory.

And he has told me in after years that his life with you was one of
constantly increasing love. I called at his cottage one morning, and
I found him almost beside himself, stamping his things into a portman
Iteau. ' What is the matter, dear Kingsley ? '-- ' I am engaged.
Igoing to see her now -- to-day.'                                 am

                                   was so glad, and left him to his joy.
" My tears will come to my eyes in writing these lines, for I loved
Kingsley as well as man can love man. I have only one little scratch
of a drawing of his. I have many pleasant reminiscences, sparks of his

large mind, as in friendly chat we would sit and draw together, or walk
by river side and think of Nature, -- and all one's strongest desires, -- for

a heart to share every thought and sight. And now this picture in life
         "
is over

   In September, 1843, through the kindness of Lord Sidney
Osborne, a relation of his future wife, Lord Portman promised
to give Charles Kingsley one of the first small livings that fell
to his gift, and in the mean time advised him to apply for the
curacy of Pimperne, near Blandford, which with a good house
would be vacant in the following spring. This being secured,
Bishop Sumner gave permission for his resigning the curacy of

Eversley at Christmas.
   The correspondence, which had dropped for a year, was now

resumed.

  "... Helston, September, 1843.
             What a thought it is that there is a God ! a Father, a King ! a
Husband not of individuals, that is a Popish fancy, which the Puritans
have adopted -- but of the Church -- of collective humanity. Let us be
content to be members; let us be, if we may, the feet, lowest, hardest
worked, trodden on, bleeding, brought into harshest contact with
the evil world ! Still we are members of Christ's Church ! . . . .

How fearfully and wonderfully we are made. I seem all spirit, and

my every nerve is a musical chord trembling in the wind ! . . . . and

                   Prayer.                                                                                     97

yet I am sane, and it is all real. I could find no vent for my feel

ings, this afternoon, but by bursting out into the Te Deum, to no
Ifknown chant, but a strange involuntary melody which told all.                                                I
....could but sing now ! I used to know only melancholy songs. I wan
dered about moaning in one eternal minor key                 In heaven we

shall sing involuntarily. All speech will be song ! . . . .

  I" am going to send you ' Thoughts on the Church Calendar,'

the last half of my essay. Of ' What is the Real Error of Tracts for
I (/the Times '

   " Besides
only the           prologue is written, though the matter is ready. . . .
 this,
                   have begun the life of the only           think) healthy

....popish saint,  St. Elizabeth of Bohemia, with illustrations and                                            ara
                                                                                                            "
besques            to be finished with your help and advice

"... Oct., 1843.
          What an awful weapon prayer is ! With the prayer of faith

we can do anything.

  " Mark xi. 24. ' Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye

desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have

them,' --saved me from madness in my twelve months' sorrows ; and it is
so simple, and so wide --wide as eternity, simple as light, true as God

Himself ; and yet it is just the last text of Scripture which is talked of,
or preached on, or used ! Verily, ' when the Son of Man cometh shall He

Ifind faith on the earth?' That is an awfully probable text. But feel

more and more every day that if we are to do great things, it must be

in the spirit of Mark xi. 24. In that spirit we may retard that second

text's fulfilment, and no other ! You told me once to expect much from
IGod, and I should receive much ! . . . .
                                           say, in return, expect great
Ithings -- also expect the least things, for the greater faith, often find, is

shown about the least matters. People will believe their soul is sure to

be saved, who have not the heart to believe that God will take away

some small evil, if they pray for it ; and may we not attribute some

of the temporal distress, which is the lot of Christians, to their not

choosing to thank God for the temporal benefits which they have, and

not believing that they will be granted when they have them not ? . . .

   " About the wind's moaning. It is a great mystery. All nations

have fancied that there may be evil spirits in  It used to terrify me
a
                               a
                                    is

                                                                                      it.
                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                         a
as child, and make me inexpressibly melancholy as youth. But no

bad weather now has lowering effect on me--but rather calming one.

Of course some of this to be attributed to my familiarity with night in

all its characters. And the moaning of the wind now seems to me the

groaning and the travailing of the whole creation, under the purifying
changes, bitter and destructive, yet salutary, of storms and thunder

9 8 Charles Kingsley.

clouds I In the renewed earth there will be no winter, no storms !

Perpetual, calm day ; with, perhaps, just change enough for incident -- if

"...incident be not a necessity for fallen nature only I . . . ."
             You must love the Cornish men I they are the noblest men
Iin England-- strong, simple-hearted, united, working --'One and all,'
is their motto. Glorious West country I          told some of them the other
Iday that if ever married it should be a Cornish woman. . . . You

must not despise their accent, for it is the remains of a purer and

nobler dialect than our own, and you will be surprised to hear me when

I am merry, burst out into pure unintelligible Devonshire ; when I am
!...."very childish, my own country's language comes to me like a dream of

old days

"... Helston, October 3, 1843.
            Received Vinet's book and the letter from Geneva about
IMalan.  too, though most intensely careful of our rubric, &c., and
wedded to episcopacy, am very liberal (Catholic I should call
                                                                          to all
                                                                          . it)

                                                                               I
parties. God's definition of christians          All who in every place call on
...the name of the Lord Jesus.'          is,

                                              '

                                             I
                                                   I
                 I                       dare know no other stricter one

will send you some of my sermons both Chelsea and Eversley, and one
....preached at little fishing village here
                                                          will write you my
....opinions on Church Government and Ceremonies and Liturgiesa

Do not be startled at anything may say.          am no destructive, but   I
                 a

                  I
am no bigot. And still less 'galvanizer of dead bones,' like * * *."

"... October, 1843.
           Pray night and day, very quietly, like a little weary child, to
the good and loving God, for everything you want, in body as well as
soul -- the least thing as well as the greatest. Nothing
                                                                        too much
                                                                   isI
to ask God for -- nothing too great for Him to grant --and try to thank

Him for everything Glory be to Thee,             O  Lord  !      ..       some
                 :                                            .  if
                            !
                                      !                             it .
times feel that eternity will be too short to praise God in,              was only

for making us live at all And then not making us idiots or cripples,

or even only ugly and stupid What blessings we have had How we
                                                                     !

must work in return for them. Not under the enslaving sense of paying
off an infinite debt, like the Popish saint, but with the delight of

gratitude, glorying that we are God's debtors             The Mystic and
                 this, The works of the flesh are these -- marriage,
Popish doctrine  is

                                  '

                                           is
                                                                 a
                                                                                                   a

                                                                                                             ;
paternity, brotherhood, friendship, eating, drinking, hearing, seeing, and

smelling.' Tersteegen and the Quietists include motion and speech

and the Papists, sleep. There            rather  curious difference between

this list and that given in Galatians v. 19-21;-- so great difference,

                         The Worship of Creation.                       99

indeed, that tradition has been forced to be invented, to add the former
                         "
list to the latter

                                                     Eversley Cross.
"... IWonderful grace of God, that should now be God's priest
....I Iand servant ! often read 1 Cor. xv. 8, 9, with tears !
                                                                 do begin

to feel that one can truly glory in nothing which is not in God and of

God ! There is no feeling of safety in anything else. It seems a shame
to say safety, but -- there is no other word. But what can be referred
to God seems so safe and beautiful !--All, all but sin is His creation. . .
"lam getting very strong, and have been threshing wheat a good
Ideal these last two wet days, which is splendid exercise.
                                                            look forward

to working in the garden at Pimperne. What a place for summer

.... Inights ! We will go and sit in the church sometimes on summer nights,

too but am not fond, you know, of going into churches to
pray. We must go up into the chase in the evenings, and pray
there with nothing but God's cloud temple between us and His heaven !

And His choir of small birds and night crickets and booming beetles,

and all happy things who praise Him all night long ! And in the still

summer noon, too, with the lazy-paced clouds above, and the distant
sheep-bell, and the bee humming in the beds of thyme, and one bird
making the hollies ring a moment, and then all still --hushed --awe-bound,

as the great thunderclouds slide up from the far south ! Then, there to

praise God ! Ay, even when the heaven is black with wind, the thunder
crackling over our heads, then to join in the paean of the storm-spirits

to Him whose pageant of power passes over the earth and harms us not

in its mercy !

  I" once scandalized a man, who had been sentimentalising about

Gothic aisles, by telling him that all agreed that they were built in

Iimitation of the glades of forest trees, with branches interlacing over
head! and that           liked God's work better than man's! In the

cathedral, we worship alone and the place is dumb, or speaks only to

                                is,
us, raising a semi-selfish emotion; that having its beginning and end in

us. In the forest, every branch and leaf, with the thousand living

things which cluster on them, all worship with us That no metaphor in
                                          !'         I is is is

                                                  !        I,
which the Psalmist calls on all things to praise God, from the monsters

of the deep to worms and feathered fowls           They are all witnesses of
        !

          I
                      '
God, and every emotion of pleasure which they feel an act of praise

to Him  dare not say an unconscious act This not imagination,
                                          !

for imagination deadens the feelings (so men say, but do not underis
stand -- that word imagination so much misused), but when feel
                                                                    2I
thus, seem to see all the universe at one glance, instinct with The Spirit,

                                                                 H

  ioo Charles Kingsley.

  Iand feel ready to turn to the first beggar meet, and say, ' Come, my

  brother, all this is thine, as well as mine ! Come, and I will show thee

  thy goodly heritage !' Oh, the yearning when one sees a beautiful thing

  "...to make some one else see it too ! Surely it is of Heaven !
                   Some day we shall see as one, and then we shall yearn as
  one heart to make others see and feel with us ! And then, perhaps, we

  may expect that we are nearly ripe for great things, for heralding a great
  I Imessage.       see already what that message is-- one the for-
             fancy
  getfulness of which is at the root of almost all error. It
                                                                                                      is,

                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                    !'
                                                                                                      Every creature

  of God good,      be sanctified with prayer and thanksgiving                                                          This, to
      it is

              is

                      if
                           it
                                     it

                                                             !)

                                                                                          !

                                                                 it !

                                           it I

                                                                      it
  me the master truth of Christianity                                              cannot make people see               it,

  but seems to me that was to redeem man and the earth that Christ

  was made Man, and used the earth And seems to me that Chris

  tianity has never yet been pure, because never yet, since St. Paul's

  time, has stood on this as the fundamental truth, and that has been
                                                                                                             it

  pure or impure, just in proportion as has practically and really (not
  doctrinally --vile dead doctrines acknowledged this truth. That men

  have been purer whenever, as in the Homeric and Patriarchal ages,

  among our own Reformers and the Vaudois, and the Chaldaean Chris

  tians, they have done so. And that men have, by the suggestion of

  Satan in all ages, as soon as they became impure themselves, listened to

  the devil, when he whispered that the world belonged to him, and tried

  to build up for themselves sham world, in which everything should bea
  very good -- the later Greeks by Art the Easterns and Romanists by
         ;;                                                            a
  asceticism the Platonists, Christian and Pagan, by their distinction    ;;

  between the initiated and uninitiated the aristocracy of France and
  England for several centuries by standard of false refinement the

   geniuses of the last few years by maundering poetry;-- all striving to
I'       '                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                                                             !
  make very good world for themselves, and all making very bad one
      a

    think that the purest school on this point in the Church of England            is
  (with whom do not class Laud, Ken, Taylor, and Co., and hardly
             I

Hooker, in some things in his polemical works, though at heart believe                                       ;
him sound). The next purest are the Evangelical school of Germany--
perhaps the purest of all the next, our own Evangelicals and Dis                                              I
it,

             I

                           it
                                    is

                                                                 ;
senters become more and more schismatic, as they practically forget

this  truth of the earth's being holy to the Lord                                  it, ; !   let  us  it,study    pray over
      Now this think our message, our truth                                                                 it,
   "
                                                                                                                it
    pray to be allowed the honour of declaring                                               preach act out, ay

and inflict any mortifications on ourselves, which may enable us, with

God's help, to act out without abusing and then denying through               it,
                                                                                                             it

disgust, like the Augustine-age Romans, and the modern Antinomians, ay

....and many, many, in the Church of England, and of our own friends

Self-sacrifice.  io i

Can there be a more glorious truth for us to carry out ? one which will
lead us more into all love and beauty and purity in heaven and earth ?

one which must have God's light of love shining on it at every step, if

we are to see it through the maze of our own hearts and the artificialities

Iof the world ? He has given us souls and bodies, believe, exquisitely

attuned for this very purpose : our aesthetic faculty, our sensibilities to

the beautiful are most acute. He has taught us for this very end. All
the events of our life, all the workings of our hearts seem strangely to

Ipoint to this one idea. As walk the fields, the trees and flowers and

birds, and the motes of rack floating in the sky, seem to cry to me :
' Thou knowest us ! Thou knowest we have a meaning, and sing a
heaven's harmony by night and day ! Do us justice ! Spell our enigma,

and go forth and tell thy fellows that we are their brethren, that their
spirit is our spirit, their Saviour our Saviour, their God our God ! '

   "And every man's and woman's eyes too, they cry to me, they cry to

me through dim and misty strugglings : ' Oh do us justice ! we have

human hearts within ! we are not walking statues ! we can love, we can

worship, we have God's spirit in us, but we cannot believe it ourselves,

or make others believe it ! Oh teach us ! and teach others to yearn for

love and peace ! Oh make us One.' All the world-generations have
but One voice ! ' How can we become One ? at harmony with God and
God's universe ! Tell us this, and the dreary, dark mystery of life, the

bright sparkling mystery of life, the cloud-chequered, sun-and-shower

mystery of life is solved ! for we shall have found one home and one

brotherhood, and happy faces will greet us wherever we move, and we
shall see God ! see Him everywhere, and be ready to wait for the renewal,
for the Kingdom of Christ perfected ! We came from Eden, all of us :

show us how we may return, hand in hand, husband and wife, parent

and child, gathered together from the earth and the sea, from the past

and the future, from one creed and another, and take our journey into

a far country, which is yet this earth. A world-migration to the heavenly
Canaan, through the Red Sea of Death, back again to the land which

was given to our forefathers, and is ours even now, could we but

find it!'"

 "... October 30.
             What a strange mystery is that of mutual self-sacrifice ! to exist
for one moment for another ! the perfection of human bliss ! And

does not love teach us two things ? First, that self-sacrifice, the living
for others, is the law of our perfect being, and next that by and in self-
sacrifice alone can we attain to the perfect apprehension of ourselves,

our own personality, our own duty, our own bliss. So that the mystics

102 Charles Kingsley.

are utterly wrong when they fancy that self-sacrifice can be attained by

self-annihilation. Self-sacrifice, instead of destroying the sense of per

sonality, perfects it; while self-annihilation
is                                              in reality, only relinquish

                                                                                  !
                                                                                             !

                                                                   is,

                                               it I
                                                                                             it
                                                                                            it
ing one selfish pleasure for another, which they consider more spiritual,

and too often, in the recluse, the relinquishing of unselfish action for
selfish emotion. All Tersteegen's system leads to this -- leads back

again to Self, to one's own feelings and emotions and imagination, as the

field in which we are to disport ourselves Ay, and am afraid, leads

to the horrible folly of mistaking the picture of God, which our own

imagination draws, for God Himself Surely too                                    leads to the mis

!...."taking conscious emotions, for the workings of The Spirit, which must be

above consciousness

                                                   Eversley, November II.

" want to talk to you about Impulse. That word, in its common
is is I

                 a
use, one of my enemies. Its proper and original meaning,                                         has
                                                                                 is it is
any, the exciting effect of the will (the spiritual part) on the flesh.
And where man acts from impulse,                                                      if

                                                                                            it

                                                                                                        a
                                                because his flesh at harmony
                    a
with, and obeys, his spirit.  know what impulse                                  when has driven
                          it
                               is

                             I

                                                           !

                                                is it
                                                       is

                                                 if

                                                                            is,
me, in putting out fire, through blazing rafters and under falling roofs,

by an awful energy which must be obeyed. Now there nothing, in

this, sinful in itself. On the contrary,        the will which drives be

spiritual and holy will,      the highest state of harmony and health, the
rare moments of life, in which our life not manifold, but one -- body and

soul and spirit working together Such impulses have led martyrs to

the stake. Such an impulse kept the two women-martyrs at Coventry

in the midst of the flames loose and unbound Such an impulse drove
                                                !

Luther on through years and years, till he overthrew the Popedom                                 !

Such impulses are exactly what the world despises, and crushes as en

thusiasm, because they are opposed to the cold, selfish work of the
brute intellect --because they make men self-sacrificing, because they

awaken all that childish earnestness and simplicity, and gushing tears,

and passionate smiles, which are witnesses and reproofs to the world of

what she has lost, and therefore  trying to fancy she can do without
                    is
                              is

                                                        !

                                                 is

                                                                                 !

                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                         is,

                                                                                                                                                                 !!
Yet the world will devour the most exciting works of fiction --thereby

confessing that 'romance' and 'enthusiasm' have a beauty, even to her

--but one which she hates to see practised, because her deeds are evil,

and her spiritual will    dead, or dying The fault of impulse                                    that

one's whole life not impulse that we let worldly wisdom close again
over the glimpse of heaven-simplicity in us, and so are inconsistent

and so we acknowledge (even the most religious do), the world's ways
to be our general rule, and impulse our exception discord our practice,

                                              Enthusiasm.                            1 03

harmony our exception ; and then the world, who is very glad after all to

get religion on her side, says and truly, Oh ! these religiatx do hold

our principles as the great principles, and themselves avoid and despise
' enthusiasm   '
              !
" The way to judge of an impulse is--ask yourself-- does the impulse
Iflead to good or evil ?
                                        to good, like every other good gift, from
IfGod.        '                                            '

                      it                                      a
                          is                                           ;

                                                      it,          I!
                                                                                              is
                                                                                             it
        to evil,          your fleshly will impelling itself, not the spirit at

har"mEonnthyuswiaitshmt,heinspiitrsit,   and  the spirit with the flesh  cannot get               ex
                                        bad   sense, seems to me, for

plained (the Natural History of Enthusiasm being confused by the false' is
metaphysical system of the author) to be when man mistakes his fleshly
will for his own spirit in union with God's spirit and the way to get
into Enthusiasm by not trying the spirits whether they be of God,'
i.e., by not comparing the suggestion with the whole of God's revealed
                                        '
will know many enthusiasts quote and worship the bible, but only
                                          in
parts of it. Their inductions are partial. Mr. Malthus, a consistentit
I!
and clear-headed worldly-wise man,' says that boy of eighteen wouldI!
                                                           a
                ;'                                I
be just as much justified                     blindly obeying his animal passions, as

every impulse of his benevolence.                          am ashamed to sully this letter

with those horrid words But shows what the anti-impulse doctrine!
leads to where boldly carried out "

               *. » * · *

   " feel with you         all you say. Let us keep                      mind those three
                    is    happiness --self-distrust        is
truths --'humility     in                                           in

                                                                                                    is
                                                           strength --meekness

firmness.' And praying for these virtues let us fearlessly obey God's

command, Let your light shine before men,' to approve ourselves be

fore all men and hundred other texts, which seem to the carnal to
                    a
favour the very thing they are intended to keep us from, ostentation
and conceit. Let us shine.' And how shall we shine The world has'
                                                                         ?

                                                                                        :
                                                                                           '

                                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                                   '
become so well-behaved, that to abstain from outward sin, and even

from many harmless amusements, not to shine. How can we shineis
but by upholding the very truths which the world forgets -- the real
bothrfeoMthaaelmlr-shmuofoofindciiesomnfcy--chtrohisfetiGaponosdw'es(rnhooetflptGh--oedtmh'seetsapppoirhwioterritcoaolcfofnaasnietdhcr--asteetlhf-ecuhso,asbneoonmt ooinnnaleyt)io--inn

the church and at the religious (?) meeting, but in our daily life, our'
meals, our every word and action -- His power to enable us to conquer'
the flesh in temper and luxury and pride --the sacredness of the obli

gation of citizens on us, and all to their king --of taxes and tithes -- of
parents to their children and children to their parents --of all men to

every man, and all men to God These are the truths forgotten in the
                    it
                         is

                                                  !
present day. And                        only by upholding these day by day, in every

104 Charles Kingsley.

way and every thing, that we shall be witnesses for God. Only, that
which opposes the stream is seen above it : that which floats with it is
sure to be sucked under, when there is a rapid or a fall. The carnal

man floats blindly down the stream of time ; the spiritual man is inde
pendent of it ; for God's spirit which is in him has been in those of

every age ; and thus all the ages are one with the christian's age !

IEternity is really his home, and Time but an accident to him ! cannot
Iexpress myself. Some day shall, better."

"... Eversley, November, 1843.

        I have just despatched another letter to Dr. Wyndham (rector
of Pimperne), expressing my fears that the former letter has miscarried.
IWere not sure that we are in God's hands, his silence would make me
Ianxious. But God is our Father, and He knows best.
                                                               find how,

daily and hourly, little wholesome trials come to keep one alive ! We

are, after all, like horse and mule, who require the whip to keep them

up to work ! but love only touches us. The hand of man strikes in
anger more than correction. Even the precious balms of ' the righteous '

break our heads sometimes ! With a strong mind one may have but a
Iweak heart -- mean one easily worn out by petty alternations of hope
Iand fear, more than by great misery. And therefore
                                                     have cast my

burden on the Lord, with prayer and fasting, and shall leave it there,

and when I read those two verses in the Psalm this morning (Ps. lxviii.

"...9, 10), I took heart.
               As to self-improvement, the true Catholic mode of learning
is,
     it,

          '
                      '
to prove all things,' as far as we can without sin or the danger

of and hold fast that which good.' Let us never be afraid of
                                          is

trying anything, though copied from people of different opinions to
our own. And let us never, never be afraid of changing our opinions --
not our knowledge. If we should find fasting unsuccessful, we will
                         up -- and so on with all practices and opinions not
simply give
I
expressed in Scripture. That       is     form of pride which haunts the more
                      it it            a
                            is
                               is
powerful minds, the unwillingness to go back from one's declared

opinion, but                     not found in great child-like geniuses. Fools may

hold fast to their scanty stock through life, and we must be very

cautious in drawing them from --for where can they supply its place
                                   it                '
                                                                    '

                                                                      is (a
                                                                                    ?
Therefore, there no more unloving, heartless man-murderer, than the

man who goes about trying, for the display of his own talents     word

dislike), to shake people in their belief, even when that belief not

quite sound. Better believe in ghosts with no heads and jackboots
                                              is,
on,' like my Eversley people, than believe in nothing but self! There''

fore Maurice's loving, Christian rule                Never take away from man
                                                               a

                                The Pendulum.                                                                                              105

even the shadow of a spiritual truth, unless you can give him substance

in return.' Therefore, let those less educated or less holy minds, who

have found some truth, hold it in peace--not tear up all their belief

along with their prejudices, tares and wheat together, as the Trac-

tarians are doing to the poor of England now ! But those who
discover much truth --ay, who make perhaps only one truth really their

own, a living integral law of their spirits-- must, in developing
                                                                                                                                           passit

through many changes of opinion. They must rise, and fall back, and                                                                           I is
                                                                                                                                                    a it,
rise higher again, and fall and rise again, till they reach the level table                                                                             is
                                                                                                                                                               !a
land of truth, and can look down on men toiling and stumbling in the

misty valleys, where the rising sunlight has not yet found its way. Or

perhaps, their own minds will oscillate, like        a                                                                              pendulum, between

Dualism and Unitarianism, or High Church and Low Church, until the

oscillations become gradually smaller, and subside into the Rest of
Truth --the peace which passes understanding
        !                                            !                                                                              fancy  law,
                             ;
                                                      I

that the greater the mind, the stronger the heart, the larger will the

oscillations be, but the less they will be visible to the world, because

the wise man will not act outwardly upon his opinions until they have

become knowledge, and his mind in state of rest. This think
the true, the only doctrine of Reserve -- reserve of our own fancies, not
of immutable truth. And one thing more do see -- that as with the
                                is
                                          a

                                       I

                                                  a
pendulum, those oscillations are caused by the very force which at last

produces rest God's Spirit, working on               man, draws him down

towards rest, and he, by the elastic legerete of the flesh, swings past

the proper point into the opposite extreme, and has to be drawn back

again down. And another thing see --that the pressure of the sur
                                I

rounding air, which helps the force of gravity in producing rest,

true emblem of the force of healthy ties and duties, and the circum
....stances of God's universe -- those things which stand round
                                                                                                                                           Let

a man once break free from them, and from God's Spirit by self-will or

heartlessness, and he will oscillate, as the pendulum would, for ever
He will become like one of the ancient philosophers -- like the gnostics,

like the enthusiasts (ascetic-mystics often) of every age                                                                                  Those

who throw off humanity by lovelessness or Manichaeism, seem to me,

they could succeed completely, to be putting themselves beyond the
if

       II
                                 is
                                                              ;
                                                   is
                                    I
                                                                                                                                 !
pale of God's Church, which     the collective healthy humanity of the

"...earth, and therefore beyond the pale of the Spirit                                                                                     The A's
                   have heard from Dr. Wyndham this morning.
leave on April 6th, and he asks me to take possession of Pimperne on

that day. So that settled but do not think we shall go to Pim

perne.  am not, and will not (please God to help me, as He has

hitherto) be anxious about anything. Why should we weary out the

106 Charles Kingsley.

little life we have left in us, when He has promised to care for us, and

make us renew our youth, and heap us with everything that is good

for us ! I do wish, if we had not to do God's work, that we were both

in heaven, lying at our Saviour's feet, where the wicked cease from
....troubling (and the good too), and the weary are at rest
                                                             How
Ifew men ever rest in these days. Do not think am melancholy
.... I look forward with quiet certainty of hope, day and night ; be
Ilieving, though can see but little day, that all this tangled web will

resolve itself into golden threads of twined, harmonious life, guiding

both us, and those we love, together, through this life to that resurrec

tion of the flesh, when we shall at last know the reality and the fulness

of life and love. Even so come, Lord Jesus !

  "Do you wish to help me? Pray for my successor, who is to be

ordained this week, that he may serve God and God's people here

I Ibetter than have done ; and may build, on the foundation that have

laid, such stuff as may endure in the day of trial ! And oh ! pray that

Ihe may save me from blood-guiltiness, by warning those whom have

"...neglected
                Have not Tersteegen and the Oxford Tracts given you the
habit of looking at, and depending on, your own emotions, and some
times mistaking them for feelings -- spiritual affections ? . . . . Never

mind, henceforth, what you feel. Look out of yourself at God. Pray

....and praise, and He will give you his Spirit often when your heart seems
most dull       When tempted to look inward, it is well to go imme
diately and work for others --visit the sick or perform some act of self-

sacrifice or thanksgiving ; never mind how dull we may feel while doing
      The fact of our doing proves our will -- our spiritual part to be
it.

                     it
                            is

                                           it

                                                                 '
                                                                              ?

                                                                                                    a'

                                                                                                  it
"...on God's side
              People smile at the enthusiasm of youth -- that enthusiasm
which they themselves secretly look back at with sigh, perhaps un
                partly their own fault that they ever lost it. Is
conscious that

not strange, that the only persons who appear to me to carry to the

grave with them the joyousness, simplicity, and lovingness and trust of
children, are the most exalted Christians Think of St. John, carried

into the Church at Smyrna, at the age of ninety-nine, and with his dying
breath repeating the same simple words, 'Little children, love one
another.' "

"... As to                                                       Evkrsley, October 27.
                Honour all men,' you are quite right. Every man
                '

                                                                                 a

                                                                                                                                                           !
should be honoured as God's image, in the sense in which Novalis says
-- that we touch Heaven when we lay our hand on
                                                 human body

                                              Wandering Minstrels.                                             107

.... The old Homeric Greeks I think felt that, and acted up to
                 I

                                                             a
                                                               is

                                               I
                                                                                                               it,
more than any nation. The Patriarchs too seem to have had the same

feeling                                   have been making    fool of myself for the last ten

minutes, according to the world's notion of folly, for there have been

some strolling fiddlers under the window, and have been listening and

crying like a    child. Some                     quick music  so        inexpressibly           mournful.
                 like one's own                  feelings --exultation     and action,           with the
It seems just

remembrance of past sorrow wailing up, yet without bitterness, tender
in its shrillness, through the mingled tide of present joy; and the notes
seem thoughts --thoughts pure of words, and a spirit seems to call to

me in them and cry, Hast thou not felt all this                         And start when
                 a                                            '
                                                                   !
                              '
                                                                            ?'

                                                                          I
                                                                              I

                                                                                               it

                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                            '
   find myself answering unconsciously, Yes, yes,                       know                                   all
I
Surely we are part of all we see and hear And then the harmony
       a
thickens, and all distinct sound                 !a         pressed together and absorbed

in confused paroxysm of delight, where still the female treble andI is
the male base are distinct for moment, and then one again -- ab

....sorbed into each other's being-- sweetened and strengthened by each
other's melody                                why should not cry Those men have un
                                                              ?

                                                                 I?

                                                                                  is
                                                                                         a

                                                                                             a
consciously told me my own tale why should not love them and pray

for them  ?    Are they not my benefactors                    Have they not given me
             is
more than food and drink Let us never despise the wandering min
                                              ?

strel. He an unconscious witness for God's harmony -- preacher of
the world-music -- the power of sweet sounds, which
                                                                                              link between
every age and race -- the language which all can understand, though few

can speak. And who knows what tender thoughts his own sweet music

stirs within him, though he eat in pot-houses, and sleep in barns Ay,

thoughts too deep for words are in those simple notes --why should not
                                                                        a
we feel them                              ..
   II                                                                                                       !
                       ?
                                  .
                                       .
" must go out and see my school, and strike                             last blow for God,

now       am parting from this beloved place, hallowed to me by my
....prayers, my tears, my hopes, my first vows to God --my paean of par

doned sin and answered prayers
   " It probable shall leave Eversley the week after next, and go up
          is

                   I

to my father's at Chelsea                        "

 "... Eversley Cross, October, 1843.
             Did you not glory in that beautiful chapter this morning --
vii. of Wisdom How tells of the mysterious creation of the babe, and
then of his young yearnings after wisdom -- the One infinite divine Reason
and then the description of reason -- holy, one, pure, loving the beautiful
   c, the good), benevolent, subtle, searching all things -- spiritual
pure influence flowing from the glory of the Almighty the unspotted
(;.
                           ?

                                  it

                                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                        a1

io8 Charles Kingsley.

mirror of the power of God and His goodness, in all ages entering into
holy men, saints, heroes, and poets, and making them prophets of
God ? for every true Christian is a hero and prophet. And into this

Spirit we are baptized. This glorious Reason has been infused into even

us ! Oh, let us pray for more, more, more, and watch for it and
....worship it--that
' is                                 the Holy Spirit, whose exponent and instrument
                                                !
      !
                                                           is
      I'                                                                                               it
         I        Oh, love that chapter It the Divine sanction to the

                                is,
"...truth of Coleridge's, and Carlyle's, and Maurice's philosophy
                  have been praying long and earnestly, and have no fears
      Whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, believing, ye shall have.'
now.

Lord believe, help Thou my unbelief.' Those two texts used to be
my stronghold when the night of misery was most utterly dark. And

in the strength of them we shall prevail, we will but work out our
                                                              if
                                                                                              '

own salvation with fear and trembling.' Fret not then, neither be

anxious. What God intends He will do. And what we ask, believing,
                                     Never let us get into the common trick of
we shall receive

calling unbelief resignation of asking, and then, because we have
                                     ;
                                             a

                                                  '
                                                           '
not faith to believe, putting in                    Thy will be done at the end. Let
                                                                               '
us make God's will our will, and so say Thy will be done.' There                         1                  is is

a false as well as                   true and holy resignation. When the sorrow
                           1, a
come, or coming, or necessary apparently for others' good, let us saya'

with our Master in the agony, Not what we will, but what Thou
wilt but up to that point, let us strive boldly in prayer with Elias, and
! 'I
Est"her,amanfdullPaouf lp,laannsd    Moses          or wherever                else God may place           us.
                                     for Pimperne,

We must have regular rule of life, not so as to become law, but a
                                                                                                 a
custom. . . . Family prayers before breakfast 8-30 to 10, household                                     5,
                                                                           ;;
matters 10 to studying divinity, or settling parish accounts and busi
ness -- our doors open for poor parish visitants between and go out
in

               ;
    all weathers, to visit sick and poor, and to teach in the school                                        ;

....in the evening we will draw, and feed the intellect and the fancy.
We must devote from
                                     to 12 on Monday mornings to casting up
                                     9

                                       I

                                              9;

                                                                        !

                                                                     a
our weekly bills and accounts, and make rule never to mention them,

possible, at any other time and never to talk of household matters,
if
unless urgent, but between                      and 10 in the morning; nor of parish
        I
                  is                 have seen the gene and misery which not
                        a
business in the evening.

following some such rule brings down We must pray for spirit of
                                                                                                 ;
order and regularity and economy in the least things
" This                                                                                             a
                           very homely letter, but not an outward one for all the
business have talked of has spiritual meaning. If we can but keep
                                     in
alive a spiritual meaning            every little action, we shall have no need to
                                            aa
write poetry --our life will be real poem                                      Was not better and
                                                                               it

                               Order in Daily Work.                                           109

more poetical, in my sorrow, to use mortification than to behowl the

moon in any poetry however exquisite ? One would have been words,
the other is now, as all our life shall be, please God, a great living

Ireal fact, which is done and cannot be undone, and will be bearing

fruit, hope and trust, to all eternity."

"... I Eversley, October, 1843.
             have been thinking of how we are to order our establish
ment at Pimperne. The best way will be, while we are in Somer

setshire (a season of solemn and delightful preparation for our work)
we will hunt out all the texts in the Bible about masters and servants,

to form rules upon them ; and our rules we will alter and improve upon

in time, as we find out more and more of the true relation in which we
                                                                      I feel
ought to stand to those whom God has placed under us

more and more that the new principle of considering a servant as a

trader, who sells you a certain amount of work for a certain sum of

money, is a devil's principle, and that we must have none of
                                                       it                                     but

                                                          ;

                                                                  if

                                                                                         it,
return as far as we can to the patriarchial and feudal spirit towards
              *
"...them  And religion, that   ' is,  truth, shall be the only thing in our

house. All things must be made to tend to              and they cannot be

made to tend to God's glory, the belief in, and knowledge of the

spiritual world, and the duties and ties of humanity, they must be
turned out of doors as part of the world.' One thing we must keep

up, we intend to be anything like witnesses for God, in perhaps the
most sensual generation since Alaric destroyed Rome, -- mean the
if                                                                    is I
continual open verbal reference of everything, even to the breaking of
       I                                                                     (!
a plate, to God and God's providence, as the Easterns do. The                      !
                            ;                                                         !),
reason why God's name so seldom in people's mouths                    not that              a
                               is
they reverence Him, as they say, too much to talk of Him                                      but
                                    I
                                                    !
because they do not think of Him
   " About our Parish. No clergyman knows less about the working of

parish than do but one thing do know, that have to preach Jesus
Christ and Him crucified, and to be instant in that, season and out of
                                                       I
                                                          I

                                                                  in
season and at all risks        And therefore pray daily for the Spirit

of love to guide us, and the Spirit of earnestness to keep us at work.

For our work must be done by praying for our people, by preaching tois
them, in church and out of church (for all instruction preaching -- vide

   * He carried out this principle in daily life, and at his death all the servants in his

house had lived with him from seventeen to twenty-six years, and most of those
who had left the rectory, left to go to home of their own.
                               a

1 10 Charles Kingsley.

Hooker --by leading them to pray and worship in the liturgy, and by
setting them an example ; -- an example in every look, word, and
motion, --in the paying of a bill, the hiring of a servant, the reproving

of a child.
   " We will have no innovations in ceremony. But we will not let public

worship become ' dead bones.' We will strive and pray, day and night,

till we put life into till our parish feels that God the great Idea,
                                  it,                                   I
                                                     is
and that all things are in Him, and He in all things. The local means,        is

to which so much importance                              attached now-a-days, by those very

sects who pretend to despise outward instruments, mean the schools,

charities, &c., know nothing of, in Pimperne. But we must attend
          I

                      a
                                 is
                                     a
to them (not alter them), and make them tools for our work, which                        is
                                        God, and that nothing done without Him                is
to teach men that there

is  done at all, but mere sham and makeshift. We must attend the

schools and superintend the teaching, going round to the different

classes, and not hearing them the letter, but trying by few seasonable
                                                                                      a

words to awaken them to the spirit this the distinction which so
                                                         ;

                                                                    is

neglected between the duty of the parson and his wife, and that of the

schoolmaster and mistress                                The Church Catechism must be the

main point of instruction. Of the Bible, the Proverbs and the Gospels,

with parts picked from the leading points of Old Testament history, are

all they need know. They will soon learn the rest, they can master
          it,
              i.

                                           is
                                                    a
                                                                it

                                                                if
the real meaning and spirit of Solomon and St. John. Few have done
that, and therefore the Bible                            sealed book to the very people who

swear by           e., by some twenty texts in which lay down their

favourite doctrines plainly enough to be patched into a system, and

those not understood skin deep. Let us observe the Ember days, . . .
....praying over the sins of the clergy, one's own especially
                                                                                         en

treating God's mercy on the country, as children of land fast hurrying
                                    is
                                         a

                                                    ('
                                                                it

                                                                                   a
to ruin in her mad love of intellectuality, mammonism, and false

liberty and to avert some portion of the coming evil from Church
a
                                    see the dawn of better knowledge. Puseyism
                !
                                  It has failed-- already failed, because unsound but
                               it.

                  it I
and nation                                                                               ;
   struggle after                                                                               is

the answer which                    found in ten thousand hearts shows that men are

yearning for better things than money, or dogmas, and that God's Spirit
                                        struggle after --Thomas Carlyle
has not left us. Maurice                                                                 ') is a
struggle --This book of Bosanquet's                                                          is
                                                         The Perils of the Nation
a struggle -- All more or less sound, towards true Christianity, and

therefore true national prosperity. But will they hear the voices which

warn them . . .
          ?

           I
                       .
    " But now must bid good night, and read my psalms and lessons
                   "
and pray

                            Books, and the Bible.                                                                                 i11

"... I must write to you, for my heart is full.                     October, 1842.

                                                                    I have been
thinking over the great question -- How we are to learn, and what we

are to learn ? Are we to follow blindly in the steps of others ? No !

Have they not thought and acted for 1800 years? and see what has come
of it ! How little is known-- how little is done -- how little love there is !
"And yet must we not remember that this dissatisfaction at existing
           feeling of all young
evil (the   ' circumstance ' of      and   ardent minds),   this struggle to escape
from the                              the  evil world, has
                                                            a carnal counterfeit --

the love of novelty, and self-will, and self-conceit, which may thrust us
down into the abysses of misrule and uncertainty ; as it has done such
men as Shelley, and Byron, and * * * * *; trying vainly every loophole,

beating against the prison bars of an imperfect system ; neither de

graded enough to make themselves a fool's paradise within nor wise
                            it

                                                                          '

                                                                                            it,
enough to escape from through Christ, the door into the sheepfold,'

to return when they will, and bring others with them into the serene
empyrean of spiritual truth -- truth which explains, and arranges, and

hallows, and subdues everything      it ?                   if    we would wish to
    " We must forth, we must live above the world,
                                                                 ?
enjoy the pure humanity which fetters. And how We cannot go

without guide, that were self-conceited but what guide shall we
      ?                                                  ;
              a

             I
take  Oh, am sick of doctors and divines                    Books there                                                           is  no
                                                            !
                                                                                     I

end of them; mud, fire, acids, alkalis, every foreign ingredient con

taminating pure truth Shall we listen to the voice of God's spirit!
alone Yes but where Has He not spoken to those very book?
      ?

                         !

makers? And hath not every man his own gift? Each hero the

appointed witness of some peculiar truth Then, must we plunge again
                                                      ?

into that vast, muddy, blind, contradictory book -ocean No Is
                                                                                        ?
                                                                                                  ?

                                                                                                         !
there not one immutable book One pure written wisdom                                                                              The
                            in
                                                   ?
Bible, speaking of God's truth in words meant for men. There may

be other meanings           that book besides the plain one. But this                                                                 I

will believe, that whatever mysticism the mystic may find there, the

simple human being, the lover of his wife, the father of children,
the lover of God's earth, glorying in matter and humanity, not for

that which they are, but that which they ought to be and will be,
will find in the Bible the whole mystery solved -- an answer to every
riddle, a guide in every difficulty. Let us read the Bible as we never

read before. Let us read every word, ponder every word first in its
a

   it
                             it :

                                  if
                                                                                                                               ;
plain human sense then, in after years we can see any safe law or

rule by which we may find out its hidden meaning (beside the mystic
of vague and lawless imagination, which makes at last everything true

to him who thinks so, and all uncertain, because all depends upon

1 1 2 Charles Kingsley.

accidental fancy, and private analogies) ; -- if we can find a rule, let us

use and search into the deep things of God, not from men's theories,
         ; it,
                                a

                                I

                                                                                                a
                                                                                                    a

                                                                 I

                                                                                                           it
                                                                                                                          is
but from His own words.                   do see glimmers of rule, see that
                                                                        -- spiritual, catholic,
possible   to find hidden               meaning in Scripture            knowledge lies in the
universal    application of
                                       each word--that all

Bible but my rule seems as yet simple, logical, springing from universal

reason, not from private fancy. The mystic allegorical style of inter

pretation used by the fathers and mystics, Popish and Protestant, seems
to me the carnal counterfeit of that style. These are but glimpses, but

so vast and coherent when they come-- and so simple And the path
                                                                        ?
seems attainable by God's spirit, and within the compass of a life. And            ;!

why do we wish to know these things                              ?    Not from the mere desire of
                                                                    is
knowing. We may seek to know God Himself only from curiosity. Yes                                                                    it ? !
                                                                        coming. A question must
"But in the present day struggle
                                          a

be tried -- Is intellectual Science, or the Bible, truth and All Truth

And        the Bible be the great treasure-house of wisdom, does
' is
speak in its fulness to the mass, or to the few Are the Fathers and
        if
the Tractarians, or the Germans, or the modern Puritans right, and
                     !'
                                    Iwherein lies the difference between them?

   " Then comes again the hungry book-ocean, with its million waves,

crying, 'Read Read! Give up doing, that you may think. Across me
   the only path to the isles of the blest, to the temple of wisdom, to

the threshold of God's throne?' And there we must answer again,

Not so Oh that we had wings as doves, then would we flee away and

be at rest-- at rest from the noise of many waters and rise up on wings
                                       ;

                                          is
                                               it
                                                    is

                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                                  !
into the empyrean of truth for                                   through the air, not across the sea,

that Heaven lies, and Christ not yet on earth, but in Heaven There

fore, we will not listen when men tell us that we can reach Him by
weary voyaging on the ocean of intellect. We will wait till He
catches us up to Him in heaven to return with Him to earth again,
when there shall be no more sea. (Revelation xxi. i. What does
                                       specimen of this patristic allegorical use of texts
that mean Here
         I
              ?
                                is
                                    a
                                                             is
--which give way to for illustration, but dare build no doctrine upon,

as they did, for such use of them all private fancy, dependent on no
law of reason. And the Romanists and Tractarians, trying to support
the lawless allegorizing of the Fathers, have been forced to invent " the

general consent of tradition" theory.) Ay, better to stay humbly on earth
among the duties and affections of humanity, in contact with, and acting

on, the material and visible, contented to walk till wings are given us

wherewith to fly. Better far for while we labour, dressing and tilling the
                                       !

garden which God has given us, even though sin have made us ashamed,
and our bodies, and souls, and spirits become defiled in our daily work,

                                        Healthy Materialism.                                        1 13

and require to be washed in Christ His blood ; and though there are

thorns and briars in the garden, and our fairest flowers will sometimes

fade, and the thorns may enter into our flesh and fester, and disease
                                              us ;-- better, even thus, to stay and work, saying
may not be extinct within
                                              safe, for God hath appointed  this  place         to  us    '
-- ' Here at least we are                                                                               !

And even though on earth, the heaven will be above us in our labours,

the heaven of eternal truth and beauty, to which we may look up, and

take comfort, and draw light and guidance, and learn to walk in the

light. And the breeze of God's Spirit shall fan our weary brows ; and
the cheering voices of our fellow labourers shall call to us through dark

thickets, and across broad lawns ; and every bird, and bud, and herb
will smile on us and say, ' Ye have not despised us, ye have dwelt

among us, and been our friend. Therefore, when we are renewed, we

will rejoice with you ! ' Oh ! will it not be better thus to wait for the

renewal, and learn to love all things, all men-- not as spirits only, not

with ' a love for poor souls ' as the cant saying                       is,
                                                                               ?

                                                                                       it
                                                                            (that unappreciable,
loveless abstraction) but -- as men and women, of body, soul, and spirit,
                                                                            Is not better
made each one being, and therefore all to be loved

thus to love intellect as well as spirit, and matter as well as intellect,

and dumb animals, and trees, and rocks, and sun, and stars, that

our joy and glory may be fuller, more all-embracing, when they are

restored, and the moan which the earth makes day and night to God,

has ceased for ever                  ?
   " Better far, than to make ourselves sham wings, and try to fly, and

drop fluttering down, disgusted with our proper element, yet bound to

it,  "poTohrisselfishheailstholyatemdatmeryiasltiiscms , for there
                                              !

                                                                   ' is
                                                                       a

                                                                                       is,
                                                                                            in
     ;                                                                  truth even materialism.
The man has hold of reality who says -- This earth after all, to me
           is                           is a
the great fact.' God                          the great fact, objectively, in the pure truth of

things but He can only become the great fact to us, subjectively, by
our acting on the truth, that matter, and all its ties-- so interwoven with
                                                                    impossible to separate them --
our spirits and our spiritual ties that       is it
                                                  is
that this earth, say, the next greatest fact to that of God's existence,Iis

the fact by which we know Him. This the path the Bible takes. It does
not lay down any description of pure Deity. It all about earth, and
                                                                        is

men, and women, and marriage, and birth and death, food and raiment,

trees and animals and God, not as He in Himself, but as He has
     is                                                             is

shown Himself in relation to the earth, and its history, and the laws of1.
                                  ;
humanity. And all attempts at arriving at the contemplation of God as
He in Himself, appear to me as yet to have ended in forgetfulness of
the Incarnation, and of the laws of humanity, and lastly of God Him

self, because men, not content with the mixed idea of God which the                             1
     vol.

1 1 4 Charles Kingsley.

Bible gives, have turned from it to contemplate a ' pure ' imagination
                                                                 ?

                                                                     I
                                                                                              (?)
of their own inventing. --All trying to substitute sight for faith. For we

do not and cannot yet know what God is. No man can approach to

Him
   " What
      !             my conclusion from all this for have not wandered,

       I                       to have done
                               safe plan will
                is
tho"ugThhat  seem                              so.
              our                              be,  as  young    and  foolish children, first to

learn the duties of daily life, the perfect ideal of humanity, from the

Bible, and prayer, and God's earth and thus to learn and practise love.
                               ;
                                               ;
Then we are required to combat error verbally, we will make cautious
voyages on the book-ocean -- reading one book at time, and knowing
it                                                                    a

       if                                                                   I
                                                                                   I is
               is,
                            ;
thoroughly not adhering to any party not caring of what creed our
                                                              ;

author       because we shall read not to learn creeds and doctrines, but

to learn men, to find out what was in their hearts which made them
                                               it

take up those creeds and doctrines, that we may understand the patho

logy of the human soul, and be able to cure its diseases. This the

true spiritual mode of reading, and                     I  see enough for us for the next

year or two in three books--Maurice, Kant, St. Augustine.                                          will

know the heart of that St. Augustine. How he came to be at once so

right and so wrong, so far-sighted and so blind. And must have

better rules of pure reasoning than have at present, so Kant must be
                                                    I

read                But wish to read hardly anything but the Bible, for some
                    ;

                       I
time to come for till we have felt all the ties of humanity, we shall be

unfit to judge of much that we must look at, both in God's work, and
                                                           "
God's earth, and men's fancies

                    CHAPTER VI.

                                           1844 -- 1847.

                                                            AGED 25-28.
MARRIAGE-- CURACY OF PIMPERNE-- RECTORY OF EVERSLEY-- CORRESPONDENCE.

                                                                                                                           i2

     SCHILLER at Jena, a few months after his marriage.

 "... Life is quite a different thing by the side of a beloved wife, than so forsaken

and alone, even in summer. Beautiful Nature ! I now for the first time fully enjoy
     it
                     ;a

                            ;
                             it

                         I
                                                                 a
                                                                             a
                                                  is I
                                                         I
                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                   !
                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                                                     a

                                                                                         I a it,
live in it. The world again clothes itself around me in poetic forms old feelings are

again awakening in my breast. What life am leading here  look with glad
mind around me; my heart finds perennial contentment without it; my spirit so fine,
                                         settled in harmonious composure --not
so refreshing nourishment. My existence

strained and impassioned, but peaceful and clear.  look to my future destiny with

cheerful heart now when standing at the wished-for goal, wonder with myself,

how  has all happened so far beyond my expectations.  Fate has conquered the

..."difficulties for mehas,may say, forced me to the mark. From the future

expect everything                            Thomas Carlyle, Life of Schiller.

                       CHAPTER VI.

  Early in 1 844 Charles Kingsley was married to Fanny, daugh

ter of Pascoe Grenfell and Georgiana St. Leger his wife. He had
settled to take possession of the curacy of Pimperne, in Dorset

shire, in the following spring, but the living of Eversley falling
vacant at that time, a strong effort was made by the parishioners

to get the curate who had worked among them so indefatigably
appointed rector. While the matter was pending, he went down

into Dorsetshire for a few weeks alone to do the duty, staying
either at Durweston Rectory or at Blandford, during which

interval the following letters were written :--

                                                      SALISBURY CATHEDRAL, March 28, 1844.

" I have been walking round the cathedral -- oh ! such a cathe

dral ! Perfect unity, in extreme multiplicity. Sewell would glory in
                                                          I
as an illustration of his favourite fancy. The first thing which strikes
                                                                                            it,
you in (spiritually, mean) its severe and studied calm, even to
 primness -- nothing luscious, very little or no variation. Then you
'

            it

                           '

                       I

                                    it
                                             ;is

                                                      is
begin to feel how one  how the high slated roof and the double

lancet windows, and the ranges of graduating lancet arches filling every

gable, and the continued repetition of the same simple forms even in

the buttresses and string courses, and corbel tables, and the extreme

harsh angular simplicity of the mouldings --all are developments of one
idea, and the idea so well expressing the tone of its date, the end of the

thirteenth and beginning of the fourteenth centuries, suppose, when the

revival of the age of St. Francis, St. Dominic, and dear St. Elizabeth
'
                  '

                                 I
had formed itself, from the many private fancies of its great minds, into

one clear dark system of stern, elegant, soul-crushing asceticism. And
then from the centre of all this, that glorious spire rises -- the work of a
slightly later hand -- too huge, believe, for the rest of the cathedral,
its weight having split and crushed its supporters. Fit emblem of the

result of curbing systems. The moment the tower escapes above the

1 1 8 Charles Kingsley.

level of the roof, it bursts into the wildest luxuriance, retaining the

general character of the building below, but disguising it in a thousand
fantastic excrescences -- like the mind of man, crushed by human

systems, and then suddenly asserting its own will in some burst of

extravagance, yet unconsciously retaining the harsh and severe linea

ments of the school in which it had been bred. And then its self-willed

fancies exhaust themselves, and it makes one final struggle upward, in a

vast simple pyramid like that spire ; emblem of the return, the revulsion
rather, to ' pure ' and naked spirituality. And when even that has

dwindled to a point, it must end -- if it would have either safety, or

permanence, or shelter, or beauty -- as that spire ends, in the Cross !
   " Oh ! that cathedral is an emblem, unconscious to its builders, of

the whole history of Popery from the twelfth century to the days when
Luther preached once more Christ crucified for us !--For ever above us,

yet"  for ever among  us.   one  peculiar  beauty.  It rises sheer out of a
      That cathedral   has

smooth and large grass field, not struggling up among chimneys and

party-walls, but with the grass growing to the foot of the plinth. Those

blundering Iconoclasts have knocked the beautiful west front to pieces.
I Ihope they meant well : fear not.
... I" It is lucky I took down my tackle, for am promised a day's trout
fishing to-morrow. Oh ! lucky me!"         .

"... I Salisbury, March 31, 1844.
              spent a delightful day yesterday. Conceive my pleasure
at finding myself in Bemerton, George Herbert's parish, and seeing

his house and church, and fishing in the very meadows where he, and
IDr. Donne, and Izaak Walton, may have fished before me.
                                                               killed

several trout and a brace of grayling, about three quarters of a pound
each -- a fish quite new to me, smelling just like cucumbers.
                                                               The

dazzling chalk-wolds sleeping in the sun, the clear river rushing

and boiling down in one ever-sliding sheet of transparent silver, the

birds bursting into song, and mating and toying in every hedge-row --

everything stirred with the gleam of God's eyes, when ' He reneweth

Ithe face of the earth !' I had many happy thoughts ; but am very
lonely. No time for more, as I am going to prayers in the cathedral."

I" Settled at Durweston,                 Durweston Rectory, April 1, 1844.
                            for the present. S. G. O. very clever and

instructive.  am learning so much from him, and he seems to be
Idoing great good. God grant may be half as useful in my generation

as he is !

                               Chalk Downs.                      1 19

" Went to Pimperne yesterday : did two duties, baptisms and

churchings, there ; and wandered between churches where we wandered

in 1843           Is it not glorious weather? The road from here to

Pimperne, over the downs, is about three miles of the most beautiful
Iturf and natural woodland, through Cranborne Chase.
                                                                 never was
Ibefore on a chalk forest. It is very peculiar, and most beautiful.
like it better than Devon and Welsh moorland --it is more simple, and
yet not so severe -- more tender in its soft greys and greens, yet quite as

sublime in the vast unbroken curves and sweeps of the open downs.
II cannot express myself.
                                  should like to preach a sermon on chalk

downs, and another on chalk streams. They are so purely beautiful.

IAnd here am till my Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, sends for me to
Eversley ! How merciful of Him to let me labour on where I have
Ibeen already, instead of sending me away to some place do not

know.

  I" looked into and read much of ' Henry Martyn's Life' (East

Indian missionary) last night. My mind is in a chaos about him.

Sometimes one feels inclined to take him at his own word, and believe

I Ihim, as he says, a mere hypochondriac : then the next moment he
seems a saint.    cannot fathom it. Of this am certain, that he is
Ia much better man than am.
" The children here send a shower of loves. God grant that we

may spend Easter together."

                                                                      Blandford, April 17, 1844.

 "... More and more I find that these* writings of Carlyle's do not

lead to gloomy discontent -- that theirs is not a dark but a bright view of

life : in reality, more evil speaking against the age and its inhabitants is

thundered from the pulpit daily, by both Evangelical and Tractarian,
than Carlyle has been guilty of in all his works ; but he finds fault in

tangible original language --they speak evil of every one except their

own party, but in such conventional language that no ear is shocked by
the oft-repeated formulae of ' original sin ' and ' unconverted hearts,'

and so on ; and the man who would be furious if Carlyle had classed

him among the ' valets] bears with perfect equanimity the information

of Mr. B***, that he is a 'vessel of wrath,' or of Dr. P***, that he

has put himself beyond the pale of Christ's atonement by sin after
                                                                 rule : ' First
baptism.    Let us in all things  take Dr. Johnson's  golden
clear your                     "
            mind  of cant   '
                           !

                * " The Miscellanies," and " Past and Present."

120 Charles Kingsley.

"... Oh ! blissful future.  Oh ! dreary present.                        April 19.
                                                             Yet do not think

I repine : this separation, though dreary, is not barren. Nothing need

be barren to those who view all things in their real light, as links in the

great chain of progression both for themselves and for the universe. To

us all time should seem so full of life : every moment the grave and the

father of unnumbered events and designs in heaven, and earth, and the
mind of our God Himself -- all things moving smoothly and surely, in

spite of apparent checks and disappointments, towards the appointed

end ! Oh, happy Eversley ! how we shall read, and learn, and work

there ; how we shall find there that these few months of unrest have not

been thrown away, that in them we shall have learnt what might have

escaped us in the quiet routine of a parish, and yet which are wanted
there -- as weeds and waterflowers show themselves in the rapid eddies,

Iwhile they are buried deep in the still reaches of the river. That may
return on Monday, is still my hope. On Friday I go to Pimperne, do

two services, and preach and give the Sacrament to two sick people.

On Sunday the same, and then come back in the evening to help

S. G. O."

I" The text                                                        PlMpeRNE, April 21, 1844.

                      shall take for the next sermon will be, ' Christ --

the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever.' The mutability of all that is
human, so much complained of: --

   " ist, Christ, the witness to us that our spiritual part and its affec

tions, our flesh too, and our very existence as a race, are, in spite of

tem"po2rnadr.y  changes, permanent and eternal.         things  may disappoint
                The witness to us that however earthly

us by change, there is One changeless friend. The idea is but half
                      I
worked out,     but      will send you the sermon
                been     reading Wordsworth's ' Excursion,'     with  many tears
  " I have

and prayers too. To me he is not only poet, but preacher and prophet of
God's new and divine philosophy--a man raised up as a light in a dark

time, and rewarded by an honoured age, for the simple faith in man and

God with which he delivered his message ; whose real nobility is inde

pendent of rank, or conventionalities of language or manner, which is
Ibut the fashion of this world and passes away.
                                                        am trying, in my

way, to do good ; but what is the use of talking to hungry paupers
about heaven ? ' Sir,' as my clerk said to me yesterday, ' there is a

weight upon their hearts, and they care for no hope and no change, for

they know they can be no worse off than they are.' And so they have

no spirit to arise and go to their Father ! Those who lounge upon down

                       Rector of Eversky.                            12 1

beds, and throw away thousands at Crockford's and Almack's --they, the
Irefined of this earth, have crushed it out of them.
                                                      have been very

sad lately seeing this, and seeing, too, the horrid effects of that new

Poor Law. You must be behind the scenes to see the truth, in places
....which the Malthus's and
                                      's know nothing of."        (After

Ifspeaking of past sorrows, he adds) : "yet must not all be made perfect
through suffering ?    the craft and subtlety of the devil and man, and

all the misrule and ignorance of this age pressing it upon us, only serves
to keep us in the path -- to prevent self-will and extravagance, and compel

us to exert self-help and find God-help -- if it press upon us the know
ledge of ourselves and our fellow creatures and our God -- why should
we complain of it ? Are we not in all things more than conquerors, if
we not only overcome the world, but plunder it of all that is good in it ;
more than conquerors again, if we not only overcome the world, but

improve the world ? Our field may be small, but it is a field : tillage is
possible, a crop is possible -- who can tell whither the wind may waft its

seeds when the    crop is ripe ?      and  abuses.  Heaven knows, when
                  deep in statistics
   " S. G. O. is

there are so many abuses, we ought to thank a man who will hunt them

Iout. will never believe that a man has a real love for the good and

beautiful, except he attacks the evil and the disgusting the moment he

sees it ! Therefore you must make up your mind to see me, with God's

help, a hunter out of abuses till the abuses cease --only till then. It is

very easy to turn our eyes away from ugly sights, and so consider our

selves refined. The refined man to me is he who cannot rest in peace

with a coal mine, or a factory, or a Dorsetshire peasant's house near
                                            I am deep in ' The Perils of
him, in the state in which they are

the Nation.' . . . ."

" Alas !  there is no  news of  Eversley ;  nor            Chelsea, May, 1844.
                                                    will be till God chooses.

In the mean time have we not each other, and God's glorious earth,

and God's love, past, present, and future ; all things are ours, and

we are Christ's and Christ is God's. . . . And what more can we
want ? . . . . I have put it all into God's hands. Be strong and He
                                                                  "
shall comfort thy heart, and put thou thy trust in the Lord

                                                                                      Sunday Night.

  " You know, I suppose, all that I can tell you. I am to see Sir John

Cope at Arthur's Club House, to-morrow afternoon, and, at all events,

shall return to you Monday, perhaps rector of Eversley !          Forgive
this short letter, as I am worn out ; but a bright future opens.  Blessed
          "
be God

122 Charles Kingsley.

                                                           Monday.

  I" All is settled at last. Sir John has given me the living, and is

going to see the Bishop to-day, and am to go down to Eversley to

morrow. He wishes me to settle there as soon as possible. God never
                                               "
"...fails those who put their trust in Him
      The presentation is to be ready in a few days.       I am

then to be instituted here in town, and then, please God, we shall

get to Eversley on Friday or Saturday. The packing, van, &c., and
Isome little comforts before we take possession, have settled. Con
.... Igratulations, as you may suppose, are plentiful
                                                           and had the
                                                           I go to
pleasure of bringing the news myself to Eversley
the Bishop of Winchester to-morrow. I took the whole duty at St.

George's Hospital yesterday morning, and preached a charity sermon

at St. Luke's in the afternoon, and at the old church in the evening ;

and am very tired, body and mind               My brain has been in such
I Ia whirl that have had no time for deep thoughts.
                                                           can understand,

by the events of the last few days, how the minds of men of business,

at the very moment they are wielding the vastest commercial or physical

power, may yet be degraded and superficial. One seems to do so much

in ' business,' and yet with how little fruit : we bustle, and God works.
That glorious, silent Providence -- such a contrast to physical power,

with  its blast  furnaces and roaring   steam  engines  !
   "  Farewell   till to-morrow. . . .  ."

He now settled as rector, at Eversley, with his wife ; and life

flowed on peacefully, notwithstanding the anxieties of a sorely

neglected parish, and the expenses of an old house which had

not been repaired for more than a hundred years. Owing to

the circumstances under which the living fell vacant, the in

coming tenant got no dilapidation-money, and had arrears of

Poor's Rates and the pay of the curate to meet. The house

itself was damp and unwholesome, surrounded with ponds which

overflowed with every heavy rain, and flooded not only the

garden and stables, but all the rooms on the ground floor, keep

ing up master and servants sometimes all night, baling out the

water in buckets for hours together ; and drainage works had to

be done before it was habitable.               From these causes, and

from the charities falling almost entirely on the incumbent, the

living, though a good one, was for years unremunerative ; but
the young rector, happy in his home and his work, met all diffl-

Parish Work.  123

culties bravely ; and gradually in the course of years, the land
was drained ; the ponds which ran through the garden and stood
above the level of the dwelling rooms were filled up, and though
the house was never healthy, it was habitable.

    New clubs for the poor, shoe club, coal club, maternal society,

a loan fund and lending library, were established one after

another. An intelligent young parishioner, who is still school
master, was sent by the rector to the Winchester Training

College ; an adult school was held in the rectory three nights a
week for all the winter months ; a Sunday school met there

every Sunday morning and afternoon ; and weekly cottage lec
tures were established in all the out-lying districts for the old and
feeble. The fact of there being no school-house had a good
effect in drawing the people within the humanizing influences
of the rectory, which was always open to them, and will ever be
associated in the minds of young and old of this generation at

Eversley, with the kind and courteous sympathy and the living
teaching which they all got from their rector.

   At the beginning of his ministry there was not a grown-up

man or woman among the labouring class who could read or

write --for as boys and girls they had all been glad to escape

early to field work from the parish clerk's little stifling room,

ten feet square, where cobbling shoes, teaching, and caning
went on together. As to religious instruction, they had had

none.

   The church was nearly empty before the new curate came
in 1842. The farmers' sheep, when pasture was scarce, were
turned into the neglected churchyard. Holy Communion was

celebrated only three times a year ; the communicants were few ;

the alms were collected in an old wooden saucer. A cracked

kitchen basin inside the font held the water for Holy Baptism.

At the altar, which was covered by a moth-eaten cloth, stood

one old broken chair ; and so averse were the parish authorities

to any change that when the new rector made a proposal for

monthly communions, it was only accepted on his promising
himself to supply the wine for the celebration, the churchwardens
refusing to provide except for the three great festivals. This he
continued to do till a few years since, when Sir William Cope

124 Charles Kingsley.

undertook the office of rector's churchwarden, and at once

put this matter on a right footing.
   The evil results of such years of neglect could only be conquered

by incessant labour, and the young rector's whole energies were
devoted to the parish. He had to redeem it from barbarism : but
it was a gentle barbarism, for the people, though not intelligently
responsive, were a kindly people, civil and grateful for notice,
and as yet wholly uninjured by indiscriminate almsgiving. He
was daily with them in their cottages, and made a point of
talking to the men and boys at their field work, till he was
personally intimate with every soul in the parish, from the
women at their wash-tubs, to the babies in the cradle, for
whom he always had a loving word or look. Nothing escaped
his eye. That hunger for knowledge on every subject, which cha
racterised him through life, and made him ready to learn from
every labouring man what he could tell him of his own farm
work or the traditions of the place, had put him when he was
curate on an easy human footing with the parishioners and was
one secret of his influence ; so that before the state of his health
obliged him, in 1848, to take a curate, he had got the parish

thoroughly in hand.

   It was from his regular house to house visiting in the week,

still more than his church services, that he acquired his power.

If a man or woman were suffering or dying, he would go to

them five and six times a day--and night as well as day-- for

his own heart's sake as well as for their soul's sake. Such
visiting was very rare in those days. For years he seldom dined
out ; never during the winter months, when the adult school
and the cottage readings took up six evenings in the week ; and
he seldom left the parish except for a few days at a time to take
his family to the sea-side, which occurred the more frequently
from the constant illness produced by the damp rectory; but he
was never easy away from his work.

   His only relaxation was a few hours' fishing in some stream
close by. He never took a gun in hand, because from the
poaching tastes of his people he felt it might bring him into
unpleasant collision with them, and for this reason he never
wished to be made a magistrate, lest he should have to sit on

                     First Confirmation.  125

the bench in judgment on his parishioners. He could not afford

to hunt, and when in after years he took a gallop now and then

to refresh himself, and to see his friends in the hunting-field,

where he was always welcome, it was on some old horse which
he had picked up cheap for parson's work. " Another old screw,

Mr. Kingsley," was said to him often by middle-class men, who

were well aware that he could ride, and that he knew a good

horse when he saw it. They perhaps respected him all the

more for his self-denial. At this time there were kennels in the

parish ; the fox-hounds (now known as Mr. Garth's) were kept
at Bramshill, Sir John Cope being Master. His stablemen were a
very respectable set of men, and most regular at church ; and
the rector, though he could not afford to ride, had always a

friendly word with the huntsman and whips; his love of horses

and dogs and knowledge of sport made an intimacy between
them, and he soon won their respect and affection. Of this

they gave early proof, for when the first confirmation after his

induction was given out in church, and he invited all who

wished to be confirmed to come down to the rectory for weekly

instruction, the stud groom, a respectable man of five-and-thirty,

was among the first to come, bringing a message from the whips

and stablemen to say they had all been confirmed once, but if

Mr. Kingsley wished  they would all be happy to come again
                     it,

                                                                                                                                            !

It had hitherto been the custom in Eversley and the neigh

bouring parishes to let the confirmation candidates get over
as they could to some distant church, where the catechumens of

four or five parishes assembled to meet the bishop. Conse

quently the public-houses were unusually full on confirmation-

day, which often ended in a mere drunken holiday for boys
and girls, who had many miles to walk, and had neither superin

tendence nor refreshment by the way provided for them. When

he became rector, matters were arranged very differently for the

Eversley people. Each candidate was prepared separately as

well as in class, for six weeks beforehand, and for the six

Sundays previous to the confirmation, the catechism, creeds, and

office of confirmation explained publicly. On the day itself the

young people assembled early for refreshment at the rectory,

whence they started in two vans for Heckfield church. He himself

 126 Charles Kingsley.

 went with the boys, and his wife or some trustworthy person with
 the girls, and never lost sight of them till they returned, the girls
 to their homes, the boys and young men, some of them married
 men, who, from long years of neglect, had never been confirmed,
 to the rectory, where a good dinner awaited them, and they
 spent the evening in wandering over the glebe, or looking at
 curiosities and picture-books indoors, ending with a few words
 on their duty. So henceforth the solemn day was always asso
 ciated with pleasant thoughts and an innocent holiday, which
 made the young people more inclined to come to him the
week following to be prepared for Holy Communion. The
 appearance and manner of the Eversley catechumens were often
 remarked on -- the quiet dresses of the girls, and the neat caps
 provided for them. These seem trifling matters to dwell on in
 days when such things are done decently and in order in all
parishes : but thirty-two years ago Eversley set the example on
 Confirmation as well as on many other days.

    His preaching was always remarkable. The only fault which
Bishop Sumner found with the sermons he took up to show him
when he went to Farnham for his Priest's Ordination, was
that they were too colloquial : but it was this very peculiarity
which arrested and attracted his hearers, and helped to fill a
very empty church. His original mind and common sense alike
revolted from the use of an unmeaning phraseology, and as all
the facts of life were to him sacred, he was unfettered as to
subject-matter and modes of expression.

   " The great difference," he said, in writing to his wife, " which strikes

Ime between St. Augustine and the divinity of our day, is his Faith.

mean the fulness and completeness of his belief, that every object and
circumstance has a spiritual import, a direct relation to God's will and
providence, and that in this import alone should the Christian look at

anything. A faith like this, which explains all heaven and earth to a
man, is infinitely above that half-faith of our present systems, which
makes religion a thing apart, explains by it only a few phenomena of

man's existence (whose number is limited by custom so closely, that
thousands of subjects are considered unfit for the pulpit) ; and leaves
the rest of the universe a terra incognita to the religious thinker, to be
travelled only by the Mammonite and the physical philosopher."

        Acquaintance with Mr. Maurice.                                     127

   During the summer of 1844 he made acquaintance with Mr.
Maurice, to whose writings he owed so much ; and the ac

quaintance soon strengthened into a deep and enduring friend
ship. In the following letter he first ventured to consult him on

his difficulties.

"My dear Sir,

    I" must apologise for addressing one so much my superior,

and so slightly acquainted with me, but where shall the young

priest go for advice, but to the elder prophet ? To your works I am

indebted for the foundation of any coherent view of the word of God,

the meaning of the Church of England, and the spiritual phenomena

of the present and past ages. And as through your thoughts God's

spirit has given me catholicity, to whom therefore can I better go for

details on any of these points ?                                           The want of
   " Two things are very troublesome to me at present.

any philosophical method of reading the Scriptures, without seeing in

them merely proofs of human systems ; and the great prevalence of
Ithe Baptist form of dissent in my parish. The latter
                                                                           find myself

unable to cope with, founded as it is on supra-lapsarian Calvinistic

dogmas, which have been received into the heart as the deepest counsels

of "GoIdt.herefore beg the favour of your advice upon these two subjects,
Iand feeling that much may be said that would not be written, must
beg, if I am not guilty of too great an intrusion, that you would grant

Ime"an   interview  with you in  London.
        know that   the request  is informal
                                                            according  to  the ways of the
Iworld, but have faith enough in you to be sure that you will take the

                    it is,
                                                   is
....request for what it

any quarter where
                     an earnest struggle to get wisdom at all risks from
                    may be found."

   The reply was as follows, and                            given by the kind permission
of Mr. Maurice's executors.

        REV. F. D. MAURICE TO REV. CHARLES KINGSLEY.

"...                                                                          July 22, 1844.
        should be sorry not to give you the experience of any
        II

                                              it
                                                        is
blunders may have committed in past time, with such experience as

has been the fruit of them, and                             sometimes easier to recover the

different fragments of this experience, and to piece them together in

writing than in speaking.

128 Charles Kingsley.

" With respect to the study of the Scriptures, my own great error has
Ibeen that have formed and abandoned so many plans, any one of
Iwhich, honestly pursued, might have led to good results.
                                                                      fancy this
Iis a prevalent temptation, though have yielded to it and suffered from
Iit more than any of my acquaintances. As would turn diseases to

commodity, or, at least, as God is sometimes mercifully pleased to do

Ithis for us, I think may say that all the deplorable waste of time which

these changes have occasioned, has brought with it this compensation,

Ithat have been solemnly and inwardly impressed with the truth, that

the Bible, as a means of attaining to the knowledge of the living God,

is precious beyond all expression or conception ; when made a substi

tute for that knowledge, may become a greater deadener to the human

spirit than all other books.
" The method of the Bible itself, and the means of its being over
Ilooked, think become more and more clear to us, as we keep this
Ifconsideration before us.
                              it be a human history, containing a gradual

discovery of God, which discovery awakens the very faculties and

apprehensions which are to receive the treatment of as collection
                       it                                  a it
                                                                    a
                                                 it,
                                                        ;            it it
of notions, either about the invisible world or our own duty, must

entirely mislead us in all our studies and whether we rate high or

low, whether we extol  as the one rule of faith, maintain its authority

to be concurrent with that of Church tradition, or look upon                merely

as set of fragments containing the speculations of certain nation
about religious questions, the result will be much the same. In each
a it
case the end of the book will be lost, and therefore all the steps to that
      a
end will be confused and incomprehensible.                 But once the teachers
                                                           if

                                                                 a

                                                                          I
in our theological schools would have courage to proclaim theology to

be the knowledge of God, and not the teaching of religion, am

satisfied that the scientific character of the Bible could be brought out

as conspicuously as its practical character, one being seen to be in

volved in the other. Then      it      would not be necessary to assert for
                                    it,
theology its place in the scientia scientiarum, or to bid others fall into

their places in connection with          and subordination to  it     nor would

                                                                   ;

be necessary to be perpetually proclaiming church authority in favour

of such and such doctrines. The truths concerning God would be felt

so essential to the elucidation of those concerning man and nature, the

relations of one to the other would be so evident, there would be such

life infused into the features of human knowledge, and such beau
                                         it,
                                                                                        a
tiful order and unity in the whole of that the opposition to them

would be recognised as proceeding just as much from prejudice and

ignorance, sure to disappear whenever there were not moral causes to

sustain them, as the opposition to gravitation or any of the most

                Letter from Rev. F. D. Maurice.                                      129

Iacknowledged physical or mathematical principles.             do not mean that

this effect would follow suddenly, or that the actual impediments to the
Igospel from human pride and wickedness would be less felt.
                                                                                     sup

pose they would be more felt after it had followed. But we should not

then be obliged to acknowledge that much of the resistance to the most

precious principles may actually proceed from a love to some others, or

even to those same; we should not hear such a din of voices crying

out for this thing and that ; and nearly forgetting God in their love for

abstractions ; we should not see so much violent straining and per

verting of texts to serve a purpose ; we should have much less idolatry

of the Bible, and much more reverence for           And the hard-working
                                          a
                                                 it.

                                                            a
clergy of our parishes, having been trained in such school before they

entered upon practical duty, would feel clearness in their minds, a

readiness for occasions, power of bringing their studies to bear upon
                      a
                                    is
life, instead of being obliged, as now so much the case, either to shut

their eyes against any new light, or else to destroy and reconstruct their

system each time that any vouchsafed to them. But since our uni
                          is

versities afford us no teaching of this kind at present, we must try to

profit by the helps which we have. Our actual work  I                     think, the
                                                             iIs,
best of these helps.
                                                                      I
                      It  forces us, whether we will or no, out of the

routine of systems, and leads us to seek for something in scripture

which altogether unlike them. And though would strongly urgeI is
every one not to lose sight of the idea of that system of which have

spoken, would by no means recommend any one who was not working

as professed theologian in the schools, to spend his time in contriving
    a

how he may adjust his own reading to it. The use of to him will be
                                                    is

                                                               it

                                                                       a
far greater he recollects that exists when he reading single book,
       it if         if
or chapter, or text, than he determines doggedly to follow out theif
traces of from Genesis to Revelation. The subject of his studies,
                                    it                                                    II I
should think, must be always best determined by the wants of his parish.

In preaching,     have always found     best to follow the order of the
               I                        a it

                                              iIs,
services, taking my subject from the epistle, gospel, collect, or first

lesson, and think we read on plan, we can hardly find much
             I                                                            it ;
                                                                               is a
better one. The study of words also                 think, of immense profit,

especially of families of words, as eg., ducaiou, a<ns, a/ia, oain/, through an

epistle, or through many. Schmidt's 'Concordance' worth much more,is

it  seems to me, than Schleusner's or Bretschneider's Lexicons though

do not mean to say they are of no value.  I         think, too, that                 desir

able, cautiously and deliberately to question ourselves about the leading

idea of any Epistle  ;   say cautiously and deliberately, because the

                      I

mere taking up with customary formulas on the subject, such as that,

the Epistles to the Romans and Galatians are about justification, will,

130 Charles Kingsley.

am satisfied, lead us astray. These Epistles are, I am convinced, strikingly

different in their object and character. With respect to the Romans,

the great mischief that commentators generally start from the thirdis
                 is,
chapter, looking upon the first and second as merely an introduction or

prologue, whereas any simple reader must perceive that St. Paul enters

at once on his subject, and that                really the avip<aaK tt)s BwotWin^t
                                       it  is

"...roii 8tov, and not an abstract theory of justification."' ;I
            It difficult to speak on the second point in your letter -- the
Baptists in your parish --without knowing how far they are, or are not,

practically Antinomian. In many places they are, and a very vulgar brutal

sect of Antinomians. Mr. Hall, who was Baptist, describes such a
                                                  Ia
class of men as existing in his body, and attacks them with fury which
                                                                                a

                                                                                                it
proves that they must have acquired great influence, and have been very

numerous in his life-time. In that case should not be inclined to

argue with them against their ultra-Calvinism, or to show them how

strengthens them in their evil courses            would rather admit what they

say when they refer man's goodness and conversion to the will of God,

and press the assertion of the apostle This the will of God, evenis

your sanctification,' that all the purposes of God's decrees must be to
make men righteous as He
                                  is,  and that   if        the decrees to which they

appeal do not produce this result, they are not His, but the devil's.
And since their complaint of infant baptism must be on the ground

that the children have yet given no sign of faith in God, you may,

without any personality, or any direct allusion to themselves, ask how

far the facts warrant us in expecting any better result from the mature

conscious baptism. Supposing, however, they should be honest, earnest

men, however outrageous may be their statements, should be disposed

rather to take advantage of their doctrine, than to repudiate it. You
                                                                I               '

                                                                             a      if
say that man's fall, and all other events, were parts of great scheme

of God. Well        grant you that the fall did not in the least frustrate
              !I
the scheme of God.              grant you thata             very wrong to speak as
                   I
                                                  it
                               a                        is
He had merely devised scheme as remedy for the consequences of

the fall. Christ was before all things, and by Him all things consist.
In Him He created man, and His incarnation, though
                                                                it.             came later
                                                                            it
than the fall, was really in God's purpose before               What we preach

is,  that men, being endued with that flesh and blood which Christ took,

are to be looked upon as objects of God's love, and that they are to be
accused of setting at nought that love. We do not set aside election
     is
                                         it.
                                             it

                                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                     ;
our baptism the witness for                By we refer all things to God we

testify that He chooses without reference to their previous merits or

holiness, and that all gifts and graces come from Him. Of course such

a statement as this will be varied according to the capacities of the

                                           Patience and Faith.                                                131

auditor, and the nature of his objections ; but it is the kind of language

I should use, and that not from any calculation as to the effects it might

produce, but from believing it to be the truest and honestest. In supra-
lapsarian Calvinism, there lies a deep recognition of God as a living
being, an originating will, which the feeble, frittering phrases of Armi-
nianism can provide no substitute for. The great misery of the Cal-
vinist his constant substitution of the idea of sovereignty for that of

righteousness, which the one always brought before us in Scripture.

   would seek to deliver him from that evil, but as far as possible

....keeping entire and unhurt that which he has already."
I
              is,
                                       is

We now return to his own letters.

TO FRIEND IN GREAT ANXIETY.
I
                is A

                       I
                                              it.
                                         if
"... Still there                             Eversley Rectory, August            if 5,1844.
                        always some way of escape to be found,
                                                                                     a   man

goes to the right place to look for        And not of escape, still of com

speak that which know, for twelve months ago was
.... ....pensation.                                                              I

hopeless, separated from                   unable to correspond with her even,

burdened with difficulties, no hope of a living                 and yet through all

filled with the most extraordinary conviction that my deliverance was at
hand, and coming knew not whence or how -- at certain time, at
I                                          a it) I
            iIt ! it I                             a
                                                  I

                                                    I
                                                                  a

                                                               Ia

                                                                                if

                                                                                    I
which certain time did come, from quarter the most unexpected, and

since then in spite of severe trials within and without, blessing has been

added to blessing. A few months ago the rector of Eversley absconded

and resigned his living, to which          to my utter astonishment was

presented for life    Of my own comfort will not talk. Of the path by
which attained          will. It was simply by not struggling, doing my

work vigorously (or trying to do where God had put me, and believ
ing firmly that His promises had real, not mere metaphorical mean

ing, and that the x., xxvii., xxxiv., xxxvii., cvii., cxii., exxiii., exxvi. --
cxlvi. Psalms and similar, are as practically true -- carnally true, you will,

for us as they were for the                Jews of old.      know that      am   right.
know that God not only                     the God of our  spirits, but of  our
is                                                                               bodies --

of our married happiness --of our purses -- of our least amusements --and

that the faithlessness of this day, and the Manichaeism of this day, as of

all ages, has been what prevents men from accepting God's promises in

their literal sense, with simple childish faith, but drives them to spiritua

lize them away --i.e. make them mere metaphors, which are after all next

door to lies.           may incur the blame of intruding advice where
   " My dear friend,
I
   I

                            I

                                                                                                           2
unnecessary, but do not dare be silent.                    have much more, much
                                                                                  k

132 Charles Kingsley.

deeper things to talk to you of. I see dimly, yet surely, in your present

discontent, the germ of much good -- of wider views, perhaps of more

satisfying tastes. Believe me, it is a true saying, and not a melancholy

one, that through much tribulation most men (not all, I believe) must

enter into the Kingdom of God. Where God has made such a mind
and heart as yours, He will not let it stay on the threshold of Christianity ;

He will sicken you with all the beauties of her outer courts ; He will
lead you on, scourge you, if it be necessary, into the very adyta, then

up to the highest holiest pinnacle of that church, from whence alone we

can see man's workings far below, and look across the far ocean towards
the happy isles, where dwell the heroes of the earth, at the feet of their

"Ifhero-king and Saviour.

        you would be among them ; if you would not be a mere laissez-

faire perpetuator of the decaying, much less a restless reviver of
the obsolete, you must walk in the path which they have trodden. You
must get at the ' open secret ' ' Quid sumus et quare victuri gignimur,'
which so few, even among the highest religionists now know. You must

get to see through the accidents, the customs, the dilettantisms, fair and

foul, which overcrust humanity, and look at man and man's destiny, as
                          You must leave self-- forget self--you must discip
God constituted
Ia
line self till she lays down, and ceases clamouring for vote in the
              aparliament of men. You must throw off the proud system-seeking intel
                     it.           is,
                                                 ;

                                                 if

                                                                            a
lect which haunts us all, and tries to round off heaven and earth with a

fresh theory every year. You must cast off the help of man, and con

struct religion for yourself from the bible or you very wisely think

this, as do, sheer impossibility, you must use the help of all men, all
schools, all sects, all ages, all histories -- enter into all, sympathise with
all-- see God's Spirit working variously, yet surely in all. And then you

will begin to find what the peace  which passeth all understanding.

You will be able to float down the stream of time, contented to fulfil

your destiny, satisfied with the particular ripple on which God has cast

your lot, and sure that some day all riddles shall be unfolded, all wrongs

set right, and God justified, in every movement of this seeming chaos of
life say -- this you must do-- because do not think your mind can
!                                  I

  I                                             !

              in
find peace doing less.

   " The dose of opium which will put the baby to sleep will only excite

and irritate the stronger passions of the man Therefore go on to the

perfection, which tribulation always indicates as God's destiny for a man,

who has not       fallen impenitently into habitual sin  opportunity of        intro
                  hear from you, and take the earliest
   " Let me

ducing you to my dear wife, who returns most cordially the kind wishes

which you sent to her."

                 On Secession to Rome.                                                133

                 TO REV. R. COWLEY POWLES.

 "... EVERSLEY RECTORY, July, 1844.
           A working man writeth not -- is a fact, if not a right and lawful
truth. And as I am a very working man with 750 sheep in the wilder

ness, many of whom will not hear my voice, but continue stubbornly,

some with no shepherd at all, others with those 'whose screeching tones

grate on their scrannel pipes of ragged straw;' the hungry sheep mean

while looking up, foodless to the respective dunghills of particular and

general baptist communions, whereon their respective hirelings sit muck
enthroned, but -- hollo -- stop --where am I ? What I mean
                                                                             a        that
                                                                                 is,
utterly unable hitherto to find time and houseroom for you my friend,
   can now find both, and also mirabilc dictu time to write letter of
1                               ?

ple"asCuaren. you come to see us   !

                                                              !
                                  Name your own time and come. We

can keep you comfortably enough after the fashion of George Herbertian

parsonages, and though alas not quite as holy as Bemerton, are at
least trying to be as busy. You will have the pleasure too of contem

plating your own exquisite RafFaelle, suspended over our chimney-piece,

the admired of all beholders           You will find your old friend                                    a

little humanized, hope, but still with strong predilection for the
                 I                                                        "

                                           a
                                                                 a
gaudia ruris, thick shoes, and wood axe

                       TO THE SAME.

   "...                                                                   Eversley, December 31, 1844.

            have deeper matters to inquire of. Is                            true that * * * *
       ?I                         if a ;
                                       it

                                                I

                                                                 it
                                                                   if
has disappeared and gone over to Romanism, and that others have gone

with him Such the report most likely as false as Dame Rumour's
                 is

                   it
other bantlings, but would be satisfaction to know the disease has

reached its crisis. For myself,        be true, sincerely congratulate all
                 and Mr. N. rises immeasurably in my opinion --as every
parties on  it,

man must do, who, however wrong, yet feeling himself not of us, goes

out from us. And that his doctrines are identical with Popery, a
                                                                                      is

conclusion which gives one much pain (for they seemed at first to hold
out a hope of deliverance to our clergy from their present narrow and

divided tone), but still one to which any one who has read Popish books,
and Mr. * * *'s and Dr. * * *'s works side by side cannot but arrive at.
   our prophet -- who                                                     nation cannot answer that -- woe
...Who                            And

to
   it

       !

        is
                   ."

                                    ?
                                                          ?

                                                 if

                                                                       a

   The news of his brother Lieut. Kingsley's death from fever in

134 Charles Kingsley.

Torres Straits, on board H.M.S. " Royalist," now reached Eng

land, and he writes to his wife from

 "... IChelsea, February 26, 1845.
            It is sad-- very sad -- but what is to be said ? saw him twice
last night in two different dreams --strong and well-- and so much

Igrown -- and kissed him and wept over him-- and woke to the ever

lasting No !                                        The sailors say
   " As far as externals go, it has been very sad.

commonly that there is but a sheet of paper between Torres Straits and

Hell. And there he lay, and the wretched crew, in the little brig, roast
ing and pining, day after day -- never heard of, or hearing of living soul

for a year and a half. The commander died--half the crew died-- and

so they died and died on, till in May no officer was left but Gerald, and

on the 17th of September he died too, and so faded away, and we shall
never see him more -- for ever? God that saved me knows. Then one

Parkinson, the boatswain, had to promote himself to keep the pendant

flying, all the officers being dead, and in despair left his post and so

brought the brig home to Singapore, with great difficulty, leaking, with

her mast sprung --her crew half dead --a doomed vessel. O God, Thou

alone knowest the long bitter withering baptism of fire, wherewith the

poor boy was baptized, day and night alone with his own soul. And
yet Thou wert right-- as ever -- perhaps there was no way but that to

bring him to look himself in the face, and know that life was a reality,

and not a game ! And who dare say that in those weary, weary months

of hope deferred, the heart eating at itself, did not gnaw through the

crust of vanities (not of so very long growth either) and the living water
which he did drink in his childhood find vent and bubble up ! Why
not -- seeing that God is love ? . . . .
" The plot is thickening with the poor Church of England. All
parties are in confused and angry murmur at they know not what -- every
                   "
one is frightened

   Early in 1845 Dean Wood, of the Collegiate Church of
Middleham, having two vacant stalls to dispose of, offered one
to his son, the Rev. Peter Wood, now Rector of Copford, and the
other to Charles Kingsley, his son's old college friend. The

canonries were honorary, and had no duties connected with

them, but being of historic interest, the two friends accepted

the honour, and went down together to be inducted, to the stalls
of St. Anthony and St. George. The deanery was abolished in

                    Canonry of Middleham.                                                                                            135

1856, on the death of Dean Wood. This was his first visit to

Yorkshire, a county attractive to him, from its people as much
as from its scenery. He writes home,

"... IAt the station                                       MIDDLEHAM, May 18, 1845.
                          met the Dean and Peter, and went down with

them. After a confused dog-sleep night, the grey morning broke in on
the country beyond Derby -- of that peculiar furrowed cast which marks

the beds above the coal, like the scenery between Bristol and Bath, only

the hills not so high -- woods all dewy green --cattle sleeping in the rich

meadows, every little glen tenanted by its bright rivulet, choked and

hidden by deep wooded banks. At Chesterfield they were quarrying
for coal from the side of the railway cutting. Thence to York, and

from York to Northallerton, a long sweep of low, rolling country, with
Isuch a soil, such crops, and such farming !
                                              never saw such fertility
before --and this reaches to Middleham, where the scene changes, high

hills spring up, deep gorges empty themselves into the plain, and

Wensleydale lies spread out like a loving mother, bearing in her bosom

little bright villages, and emerald pastures, until she turns the promon

tory of Penhill, and wanders up towards the lakes, bearing with her the

Kendal mail, and two tortured horses, for which the knacker's yard cries,

indignant.                                                                                                                           The

  I" am staying at the inn, as the Dean's guest-- so he willed
I
                       I

                                                       ;
                                                     a

                                   I
                                                                      a
                                                                                                                               it.
hospitalities seem perpetual. We had great dinner last night, and go

out to fish and dine to-morrow with Squire    the greatest worthy

have for some time seen   perfect specimen of an unsophisticated

Yorkshire  squire.  here  must stay over next Sunday and read myself in,
   " They  tell me

or that my institution will be void. Sub-dean Athill and Squire Topham
                                                                                                                                  "
have taken possession of me and am to see everything

"... Peter and                                  DEANERY, MIDDLEHAM, May 22, 1845.
I                         have just agreed to bring our respective wives up

             a                                                   would be to

              I
here some summer or many summers. What delight
                                            a
                                                    ;

                                                             it
take you up Coverdale just half mile off at the back of the town.
                          I
You know those lovely river scenes of Creswick's they are exact likea

nesses of little Cover in his deep wooded glen with his yellow rocks,

and bright white stones, and brown water clearer than crystal. As for
fishing, am clod-- never did see or hear of such tackle as these
men use -- finer than our finest. Squire Topham considers my tackle as

only fit to hold cart-horses. Altogether  I   shall see some lovely

136 Charles Kingsley.

scenery, as the sub-dean is going to drive me up Wensleydale and to
                                                                [town --
Bolton   Castle,  and everywhere.     This is   quite a racing            eighty
horses  standing   here, jockeys and    grooms    crowding the  streets,
                                                                          and I

hear they are the most respectable and religious set, and many of them

regular communicants ! Little old Lye, the celebrated jockey, was at

church yesterday, and I never saw a man attend to the service with more
devotion. I quite loved the little creature. The scenery is lovely. I saw

two views yesterday, whose extent and magnificence surpassed every

Ithing had fancied. To-day I go down the Ure, to-morrow to see

Richmond Castle, the next up the Cover, and Saturday to Bolton

Castle, famed for having        been  Mary Queen of Scots' prison, and to
                               being  in plain English, a waterfall. Leyburn
' Aysgack force,' -- a force,

Scar, a magnificent terrace of rock, rising above the valley through a

I' talus ' of wood, saw yesterday, and have brought you a rare little

flower therefrom. On it that evil woman was taken, escaping from

Bolton Castle, and brought back again. I will bring you flowers from
all parts, and what souvenirs I can, of thoughts -- but there has been so
much bustle, and robing and unrobing Iand so on, that am quite tired

and want a little rest of mind."

                                                                             MlDDLEHAM, May 22, 1845.

  I" send you some flowers, gathered yesterday from the ruins of
Jervaulx Abbey, dismantled by connivance of Henry VIII. The
Iforget-me-not is from the high altar, the saxifrage from the refectory.

have got a few other flowers also, which I will bring home ; one rare
one among them from Leyburn Scar. To-day I go up the lovely Cover,

to fish and dream of you       Really everyone's kindness here is extreme

after the stiff South. The mere meeting one, is sufficient to cause an

invitation to stay ; parties of pleasure, gifts of flies and tackle (every

one fishes and hunts), and dinners and teas and cigars inexhaustible.

I am deep in North country farming, too ; but such land ! The richest

spot, it is said, in all England is this beautiful oasis in the mountains.
Happy souls, if they knew their own happiness ; but there are so many
                                                                          "
feuds and old grudges, that it saddens one. Kiss baby for me

   The rest of the year was spent quietly at Eversley in parish
work and sermon writing : but the state of parties in Church

and State, especially the former, lay heavy on his heart, and

made him very anxious to join or start some periodical in which
the young men of the day could find a vehicle for free expression
of their opinions. The ' Oxford and Cambridge Review' was then

                        State of the Church.                                                             137

in existence, and it was proposed to make that the vehicle, and

if not, to start a new one. On all these points Mr. Maurice was

consulted, though he would not join.

                  TO THE REV. R. COWLEY POWLES.

                                                                 Chelsea, December n, 1845.
...." About the ' Oxford and Cambridge Review.'-- Froude seems to
dread any fresh start,                   and I shall chew the cud and try to
find out my own way a little longer before I begin trying to lead

others.

   " God help us all ! for such a distempered tangled juncture must
end in the cutting of the Gordian knot, by the higher or lower powers ;

and as the higher have fairly denied their cutting ability and have given

it up, perhaps the lower may try their hands at                  would,                                  were
                                                                 it.

                                                                     I
                                                                       !I

                                                                                 iIf

                                                                                                        ;
hovering between nine shillings week and the workhouse, as the sum of
'
            is is
                                   ?'

                                     it

                                                              a
all attainabilities this side of heaven. God help us all         say again for

there   no counsel to be got anywhere from man, and as for God's

book, men have made mean anything and nothing, with their com

menting and squabbling, and doctrine picking, till one asks with Pilate,

What truth        Well, at all events, God knows, and Christ the King

knows,    and so  all must go   right at last, but in            the meantime
        am just   now sort     of religious Shelley,
   "                                                             an Ishmael of
a                                                                !                 catholicity,
                                                                                  ?
    I
             I

                                      a

                           I
  John the Baptist, minus his spirit and power, alas bemoaning myself
in the wilderness. Were to stop praying, and remembering my own

sins daily, could become a Democritus Junior, and sitting upon the
bench of contemplation, make the world my cock-pit, wherein main
after main of cocklets -- the shell,' alas scarce off their heads,' come
                               '                                 '
                                       !                                                       '

                                          '
                                            '

                                           I
                                                              !
forth to slay and be slain, mutually, for no quarrel, except thou-cock

art not me-cock, therefore fight                                 But had as soon be the devil as old

Lucretius, to sit with him in the Sapientum templa serena, despicere

unde queas alios, atque cernere passim errantes.' One must feel for
one's fellows -- so much better, two out of three of them than one's self,

though they will fill themselves with the east wind, and be proportionably

dyspeptic and sulky.                     The clergy are split up into innumerable
    " Nobody trusts nobody.

parties, principally nomadic. Every one afraid to speak. Every one

unwilling to listen to his neighbour and                         the meantime vast sums
                                                                 ;

                                                                             in
                                                                                                                is
                                                                                                          it
                                                                                                                          is
are spent, and vast work undertaken, and yet nobody                                               content.

Everybody swears we are going backward. Everybody swears                                                                      not

his fault, but the Evangelicals, or the Puseyites, or the Papists, or

138 Charles Kingsley.

Pardon this jeremiad, but I "am an owl in the desert, and it is too

sad to see a huge and busy body of clergy, utterly unable to gain the
confidence or spiritual guidance of the nation, and yet never honestly

taking the blame each man upon himself, and saying, ' I, not ye have

Isin"nePda.'rdon, again, this threnodia, but   am sick of matters, and do

earnestly wish for some one to whom to pour out my heart. The prin
ciples which the great kings and bishops of the middle ages, and our
reformers of the 16th century felt to be the foundation of a Church

and nation, are now set at nought equally by those who pretend to
worship the middle ages, and those who swear by the reformers. And
Popery and Puritanism seem to be fighting their battle over again in
England, on the foul middle ground of mammonite infidelity. They

are re-appearing in weaker and less sincere forms, but does that indicate

the approach of their individual death, or our general decay ? He

Iwho will tell me this shall be my prophet ; till then must be my

"...own    My game is gradually opening before me, and my ideas

getting developed, and ' fixed,' as the Germans would say. But, alas !

as Hare has             not in one sense every man a liar?' false to his
                      it,                      if,
                           ! ' is
                                                       '
                            I'
                                                               is
own idea again and again, even                 which rare now-a-days, we have

one?                                                                                        am, that
   " You cannot think how your letter pleased me for sure
                                   in                                                  a

                                       I                                                 I

                                       it

                                        I
                                                   a
                                                                         !
                                                                                    ;
blessed are those, as the poet of all human poets sings, who going

thr"ouWghhatthe   vale  of misery  use     for well
                 times                          sometimes long for
                         we live                                                       St. Francis,

with'      third order of Minors, to lay hold of one's will, soul, and
        a
body, and coax, threaten, scourge one along some definite path of

doctrine and labour. The latter have, thank God, but for doctrines'I                        !
Verily, in England, doctrines, as Carlyle says of customs in France in '93,
are a world gone entirely to chaos, and all things jumbling themselves

mutually to try what will swim which, alas often happens to be the
                                        !      ;
                                                     !

                                                            I

                                                                           it

                                                                     I

                                                                                   is
lightest, and not the worthiest. Yet still, as ever, God's voice heard

through the roar, He that doeth my will shall know of the doctrine,

whether          be of God.' Were not for that text think should
      !                                    it

sometimes sit down astonished,' and pray to die and get all clearedit

up. Oh, Salt Asphaltic lake of Polemics Oh, teeming tropic sea of
Eros of love of man as man, of marriage, and lessons which the hearth
and the home alone can teach -- Heaven's glories, the face of Christ our

Lord, ever mirrored in their pure Eden depths and oh, foolish heart
of mine, which will try and try to think and understand, instead of
                                               '
                                                               !
doing and loving                   see more and more, He that will be great, must

                       A Swarm of Bees.                                                           1 39

be least.' He that will be the miracle worker must first become like a

little child, the only miracle seer left in these materialist days !
I" But  am ranting, and you are with * * * *, and want no long

letters. May God bless you and her, and admit you in His good time

into the inner temple of the Garden of Eden, which surely exists still

on earth, for those who have faith and purity enough to believe in their

own high honours."

"... I SHANKLIN, ISLE OK WIGHT, May, 1846.
           Ireceived your letter yesterday' here, where have come
with my two beloved, for change of air after the influenza                                        As for
Ithe ' Review,'
                 cannot but feel obliged to your friends for the high
                                                    But first shall I be

                                           write ? . . . . Next, shall
compliment of asking me to contribute

I Iallowed to put my own name to what
Ibe allowed liberty of speech, for without that had rather preserve
                                           I am anxious to join, as , I
the still higher liberty of silence

have for some time wished to speak my mind on the present state of

our young men, which is to me more deplorable than even in Athens

under the Sophists. Dear St. Elizabeth is now becoming too far de

veloped to cut her in pieces, and serve her up in a magazine : she

Ishall appear as a poem, if wait seven years to finish her.

                       TO HIS WIFE.

"... Eversley, May, 1846.
         I got home at four this morning after a delicious walk
I-- a poem in itself.
                       never saw such a sight before as the mists on

the heath and valleys, and never knew what a real bird-chorus was.
I Iam lonely enough, but right glad
                                        came, as there is plenty to
Ido shall start to-morrow morning, and will lose no time

waiting for coaches at Ryde, but walk on at once to Shanklin. St.
                                           I have had a great treat
Elizabeth progresses, and consolidates

to-day ; saw a swarm of bees hived, for the first time in my life. Smith

Iwas gone to Heckfield, so G. White sent his cart for old Home ; and

stood in the middle of the flying army, and saw the whole to my great

delight. Certainly man, even in the lowest grade, is infinitely wonder
ful, and infinitely brave --give him habit and self-confidence. To see

all those little poisonous insects crawling over Home, wrapt in the one
Ithought of their new-born sister-queen !
                                           hate to think that it is vile

self-interest -- much less mere brute magnetism (called by the ignorant
' instinct which takes with them the form of loyalty, prudence, order,
'),
                                                                                          ?       The beasts

                                                                                               '
self-sacrifice. How do we know that they have no souls

140 Charles Kingsley.

which perish ?' Ay, but put against that ' the spirit of the beast which
goeth downward to the earth '-- and whither then ? ' Man perisheth,'
                                      for ever. But I
Itoo,in scripture  language, yet not                   will not dream.  two
       fancy you   and baby playing   in the morning.    Bless you my
   "
                   I had a most busy and interesting day yesterday in
treasures
London. Called on * * * and found him undergoing all the horrors
of a deep, and as I do think, healthy baptism of fire -- not only a

conversion, but a discovery that God and the devil are living realities,

fighting for his body and soul. This, in a man of vast thought and

feeling, who has been for years a confirmed materialist, is hard work.

He entreated me not to leave him
   " God help us all, and save our country-- not so much from the fate

of France, as from the fate of Rome -- internal decay, and falling to

....Ipieces by its own weight ; but will say no more of this --perhaps I

think too much about it."

       TO THE REV. R. C. POWLES, who had invited him to Oxford.

                                      KVF.RS1.EY, December, 1846.

   " The lips of my soul water -- but what is to be done ? Parsons
in these parts are like rural police -- one suffices for a tract !-- ' qui

Imitros fatigaret, agro,' and must stay at home for Sunday. My house

is full of bricklayers, carpenters, my glebe of drainers (till they are
frozen out), and were I Geryon himself I could not come. Be sure

that everything which a man possesses, beyond a mere six-roomed

cottage, five acres of freehold, and good health, is vanity and vexation
of spirit -- thick clay wherewith we load ourselves -- more wants -- more

petty botherations ; less books, less thought, and, alas, less prayer.

That's the sum of it. I am seven times too rich, and therefore I'm

as poor as Job, and entre nous glad to raise a little money to repair my

house. Had I been Will Barker there in the drain, I should never

have found out that it was cold, and damp, and shabby, and what not.
Man has unrivalled powers of self-adaptation --ay, of adapting himself

to wanting everything, just as easily as to wanting nothing ; there's the

plague. I begin to think that, barring community of wives, Plato's
<jii\aK(s in the Republic are in the only state fit for men of mind, yet

discovered, except one -- Sewell is not far out there. The >iJXa«r were
the first shot at that idea, monasticism the second. Shall we live to see

the foundations of a third attempt laid, in the form of an author

guild, or brotherhood of genius? Ask Carlyle, and Carlyle's Master and

ours.                                                  I am more and

   " But first, young men of this day must get faith.

                                   Democracy.                                                   141

more painfully awake to the fact that the curse of our generation is that

so few of us deeply believe anything. Men dally with truth, and with lies.

They deal in innuendoes, impersonalities, conditionalities ; they have no
indicative mood -- no I, no thou, whereby alone have any great souls
                                                                If two men
c onquered.  Hence we are the worst of letter-writers.

quarrel in print, they do not speak to each other, they speak at each

other ; they look the other way, and kick like horses, or something

worse. That is the only good point in that anonymous stabber, the
'Record,' that it attacks directly, and not by implication. The

Oxford party might take a lesson there ; much more so that numerous
youth, who, now that the tractarians are tired of playing at popery,
are keeping dilletantism's altar alight by playing at tractarianism -- the
shadow of a ghost -- the sham of a sham. Our intellects are getting

beyond milk and water ; they are becoming mere gas and bottled

moonshine, from Limbus Patrum and the land Plausible.
   " My friend, we must pray to God to give us faith ; faith in some

thing-- something that we can live for, and would die for. Then we

shall be ready and able to do good in our generation. Our fixed ideas

will be to us Archimedes' fulcra in space, from whence, if need be,

he could move the world. Get hold of some one truth. Let it blaze

in your sky, like a Greenland sun, never setting day or night. Give

your soul up to it ; see it in everything, and everything in
world will call you bigot and fanatic, and then wonder
                aa                                                                              and the
                                         a                                                      century

                                                is,

                                             I

                                                                          *
                                                                                         a it,
hence, how the bigot and fanatic continued to do so much more than
all the sensible folk round him, who believed in * * and * * *

   " The sum and substance whereof that cannot come in the body,

and therefore send substitute in my spirit."

                                   TO THE SAME.

     " My whole heart                                                                                   December, 1846.
             it
                                   set, not on retrogression, outward or inward,
                              ;

                               is
but on progression -- not on going back in the least matter to any ideal

age or system, but on fairly taking the present as              is               not as         I
                                                                     it
should like                                                                 is,working in
all honest and  to be and believing    that Jesus Christ still                 of spiritual
                                      see what are the elements
                 well-meaning men --

good in the present age, and try as an artist to embody them, not in old

forms, but in new ones             the new element democracy, in Church
                                   !;

                                             if

                                                            is
and State. Waiving the question of its evil or its good, we cannot stop

it.  Let us Christianise instead and you fear that you are therein
             (I

                               it
doing evil that good may come, oh consider, consider carefully, whether

democracy       do not mean foul licence, or pedantic constitution-
mongering, but the rights of man as man --his individual and direct

142 Cliarles Kingsley.

responsibility to God and the State, on the score of mere manhood

and Christian grace) be not the very pith and marrow of the New
Testament -- whether the noble structures of mediaeval hierarchy and
monarchy were not merely ' schoolmasters ' to bring Europe to
Christ -- ' tutors and governors ' till mankind be of age, and fit for a

theocracy in which men might live by faith in an unseen, yet spiritu
Ially and sacramentally present king, and have no king but Him ? say
Iconsider this, for  speak with fear and trembling -- not expecting
Ito be heard by those whom   most long should hear me --and yet

perfectly content to wait Christ's time till the age is ripe, be it to
morrow century -- through years of dead monarchy, atheistic aristocrat

jobbing, unrestored Church lands, an ecclesiastical system which is

powerless, alas ! equally against popery and dissent, and whatsoever

else the Blessed One shall choose to make our waiting and probationary
Istate.
               am no revolutionist. Whatever soul-sufficing truth men have,

in God's name let them keep                                 dead and
   I                               Only when the truth

                     is

                    I
                               I

                                     I it.

                                                   if

                                                    I
                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                              a
suffices no longer, would gently withdraw the corpse from the mourners,

and present to them the same spirit of their creed, clothed in fresh

form to suit the present exigencies of the time.  would rejoice with
the rejoicing reformers -- the Morpeths, and Ellesmeres, and Cobdens
-- would weep with the weeping conservatives, the ecclesiologists,
and the young Englanders-- only would warn each not to fancy they

could do without the other.  would tell them to hail with adoration
all new truth, while they cling fiercely, need be, to all old truth --sure

that Christ the working King of the earth, and that new and old

equally proceed from Him                     If you knew the mean,
   " Do not, for God's sake, compliment me.

inconsistent, desultory being am in action, in spite of my fine words,
               '

                    I
                        I

                                I
you would be ashamed of me, as am of myself. But cannot stave
                                                  II
off the conviction of present danger and radical disease in our nationalis

rutehnlacigthiaornmi.taebnleeA,nnemdssent--ehoutagamhgeaninsutlsaqAuungehglriceaactunrimrsimty--seatlfhnadstoEhmvaeantndim-gweersliitcinafgolirsmocnoanttcheeoitnwceaaln--l d;

both of which more and more daily prove to me their utter impotence'

          it.                                               enough to
to meet our social evils. Six months a country parish
                                     in
prove          What to be done do not see. A crisis, political andis
               is

                              I

social, seems approaching, and religion, like rootless plant, mayie
                                             a

brushed away in the struggle. Maurice        full of fear-- had almost
said despondence -- and he, as you know, has said in his last book, that

'  The real struggle of the day will be, not between Popery and Pro

testantism, but between Atheism and Christ.' And here we are daubing
walls with untempered mortar -- quarrelling about how we shall patch

                                       The Arnold-tie Spirit.    143

the superstructure, forgetting that the foundation is gone -- Faith in
anything. As in the days of Noah with the Titans -- as in the days of
Mahomet with the Christian sects of the East -- they were eating, and

drinking, and quarrelling, no doubt, and behold the flood came and
swept them all away. And even such to me seems the prospect of the

English Church.
   " People say indignantly, ' Oh ! but look at her piety ; look at the

revival ; her gospel doctrines ; her church-building.            She is beginning

to live and not to die.' But we who have read history know how the

candle always flames up at the last with a false galvanic life, when the

spirit is gone. Remember the Church in England just before the

Reformation, how she burst out into new life ; how she reformed her

monasteries ; how she filled her pulpits ; how she built more churches

and colleges in fifty years than she had in two hundred before--
Somersetshire as a single example -- how she was in every respect, within

as well as without, immeasurably improved just before the monasteries
were dissolved. But her time was come. 'The old order' was to 'change,'

'giving place to the new' while God 'fulfils Himself in many ways,' as

Tennyson has it. And not even a More and a Fisher could save her
                                                                 Mene I Mene ! I say
from her fire-death, and phoenix resurrection.

aga"inBufot r   us.  must,         in  the widest  and divinest  sense, make friends  of
               we

the Mammon of unrighteousness.                        It is the new commercial aris

tocracy ; it is the scientific go-a-head-ism of the day which must save

us, and which we must save. We have licked the feet of the feudal

aristocrats for centuries, and see whither they have brought us, or let

us bring ourselves. In plain truth, the English clergy must Arnold-ise,
if they do not wish to go either to Rome or to the workhouse, before

fifty years are out. There             iIs,  do believe, an Amoldite spirit rising
                                                                 I
but most laudant, non sequuntur.' Decent Anglicanism, decent Evan
is                                                                                             a;
    it

                    '
                                a
gelical Conservatism (or Evangelicalism) having become the majority,

now quite Conservative, and each party playing Canute and the tide,

as can scramble in turn into the chair of authority.             would devote
soul and body to get together an Arnoldite party of young men. If we

could but begin periodical in which every one should be responsible

by name for his own article, thereby covering any little differences of

opinion, such as must always exist in reforming party (though not in'
                                                          a
dead-bone-galvanising one, like the Tractarians). If we could but start

anything daring and earnest as a coroccio,' or flag of misery, round

which, as round David in the mountains, the spiritual rag-tag might

rally, and howl harmonious the wrongs of the clergy and of literary

men, were a great thing gained
it                                                 !

144 Charles Kingsley.

  I" have had serious thoughts of what such a thing ought to be. Its

two mottoes should be Anti-Manichaeism -- (and therefore Anti-Tracla-
rian, and Anti-Evangelical) and Anti-Atheism. To attack unsparingly

those two things in every one, from the bishop to the peasant ;

and to try, on the positive side, to show how all this progress

of society in the present day is really of God, and God's work,

and has potential and latent spiritual elements, which it is the

duty and the glory of the clergy, if they are a clergy, to unfold and

christen. We should require a set of articles on Church Reform, a set on

the Art of Worship, which should show that the worshipless state of

Evangelicalism is no more necessary than good, and that Protestantism

can just as much inspire itself into a glorious artistic ritual of its
own, as Popery and Anglicanism have into one of their own. Then we

should want a set of Condition-of-the-Poor-Ballads or articles, or any
thing ' spicey ' on that point. A set on the Religion of Science, and a

set on Modern Poetry and the Drama, cursing the opera and praying for

the revival of the legitimate.               alive, if men would  only be
                                                                  blood is
  " This, I think, might keep the game        As soon as a man's

bold and ' ride recklessly across country.'

cool, the faster he goes the safer he goes. Try to pick your way and
Ifyou tumble down.
                         men would but believe this and be bold :

we want some of that ' absolutism ' which gave strength to the Middle

Ages ; and it is only the tyranny of fashion and respectability which

keeps us from it; for put the Englishman into a new country, break the

thrall of habit and the fear of man, and he becomes great, absolute,

Titanic at once."

   The Magazine plan came to nothing, but once again he refers

to it in 1847.

 "... I1847.
              Is there not an opening now for a periodical ? . . . .

Ihave thought deeply over the ' idea ' of such a work, and think see

the principles of its method. The great motto must be, ' Ne sutor ultra

crepidam.' No Anti-Lord J. or Lord G. philippics; No 'fancy' cabi

nets of our own choosing. No shooting at giants, mistaking them for
windmills. No playing at grown statesmen as if we were all Macaulays

and Lockharts ; but such subjects, such a tone, such a purpose, as really

and   de  facto, belong    to  young men of 25 or 30.          Let us talk   about
what  we                 what   we have felt, and we shall  find listeners.   That
          understand --

accursed second-handishness ruins young men now-a-days. Apes, apes

and parrots wherever one turns.

                              Value of Sorrow.                                       145

    1846 passed uneventless in the routine of parish work and
home happiness. Adult classes, a music class on Hullah's plan to

improve the church music (which had been entirely in the hands
of three or four poor men, with a trombone and two clarionets)
brought his people on several nights in the week up to the rec

tory, where the long unfurnished dining-room served the purpose
of schoolroom. He never cared to leave his quiet home, doubly
enriched by the presence of a little daughter. Of him, what was
beautifully said by Schafer of Albert Durer was true to the life:

" He had the heart, and the confiding, tender nature of an artist, who

resolved that these should flow towards his little daughter. As he highly

respected every human being, and from true reverence took off his

bonnet to all and held it in his hand, so was a child also to him an

angel, and his child his good angel, whom he had to entertain, and felt

so blessed to be permitted to do so                             Whatsoever he gave her

he said of       God sent to her God blows away the clouds God
      I.                      '                                        if
paints early in the morning the flowers upon the panes of glass. Init,
                                it                                         it
            I'
                                                     ;                                     ;
                           *                                                                      a
short,' he continues, 'a poet, an artist who does not marry and has not
children, or has not had them, has never Leen in the world -- the beau

teous tender world which he must experience, even                      should cost
him thousands of tears." *

   The correspondence of the year closes with this letter to
friend at Oxford:--

" Believe me, my dear friend,         it                is      Eversley, December 22, 1846.
                                                            not want of sympathy but of

time which has prevented my immediately answering your most inte

resting letter.             have already been through that ordeal of separation

which now seems to threaten you but my experience may be valuable;
to you -- God knows how valuable was to me and that rank that
                                        it                      a;     I

period of misery as the most priceless passage of my whole existence.          it.
It taught me to know marriage for state so spiritual, so paradisaic, that,
                                      a

like the kingdom of heaven,   it      only through much tribulation, through
                                  is

the purifying fire of affliction, man can be fitted to enter into                    That

separation taught me to look at marriage as boon from God, to be

gained from Him alone by earnest prayer, by intense repentance, and

complete confession of youthful sins.                       It  taught me to know that

Providence was a reality, and prayer the highest sacrament that to the
                                                                       ;
vol.                          Albert DUrer, 1494. Life by L. Schafer.             L

146 Charles Kingsley.

blessed Lord alone we must look for the fulfilment of our desires ; that

these desires, which men call carnal, are truly most spiritual, most be

loved by Him, and that He Himself, when we are fit for our bliss, will
work what the world might call a miracle, if necessary, to join us and

IIthose whom we love. All this have experienced -- know, and there
fore I speak. I know how after long misery, during which filial trust

in God, with many inconsistencies and ' backslidings,' was my only
Isupport, gained by prayer the transcendental and super-rational con
Iviction that we should again meet within a certain period.
                                                             know how

that period passed on and on, and how the night grew ever darker

and ever more hopeless, until -- when I was on the point of black

Idespair -- within a few days of the expiration of the period which had

involuntarily, and as it were by inspiration, fixed --from a quarter where
I least expected -- by means of those who had been most utterly op
posed to me, suddenly came a ray of light -- an immediate re-union --
and from that moment a run of blessings heaped one on the other, as if

the merciful God were turned prodigal in His undeserved love, and

here I am. Therefore, take heart, my friend, only humble yourself

Iutterly; lie still and say, ' My Father, Thy will be done.' And why
shouldn't it be with you as it has been with me ?     would argue a for

tiori, considering my infinite sins and your infinite superiority to me.

IBut am so convinced that the only secret of success is to feel and

confess yourself nothing, that God may make you everything. May

Jesus Christ bless you in body, soul, and spirit, and make you worthy of
that Eden upon earth, which He has prepared for those who believe
Iin Him and His hallowing office over all human ties.
                                                       am forced to

use a nomenclature which we both wish improved, for the sake of

Ibrevity. Let it be enough that there is a true and practically realised"
meaning to me in every word have said

   The following year his " Life of St. Elizabeth," which was

begun in prose in 1842, and had been gradually growing under
his hand, took the form of a drama. After working at it in this
new form for some months, the thought of publishing it crossed

his mind ; but he was so uncertain as to whether it was worth
printing, that he decided nothing till he had consulted four

friends on whose judgment and poetical verdict he could rely
-- the Hon. and Rev. Gerald Wellesley, then Rector of Strath-

fieldsaye, now Dean of Windsor ; Rev. F. D. Maurice ; Rev.
Derwent Coleridge, of St. Mark's ; and the Rev. R. C. Powles.
Their opinion was unanimous, but the difficulty was to find a

                        "Saint Elizabeth?                                                             147

publisher who would undertake the work of a young and un
known author. He took the MSS. to London, from whence he

wrote home.

   I" breakfasted with Maurice this morning, and went over a great
deal of St. Elizabeth, and I cannot tell you how thankful I am to

God about it. He has quite changed his mind about scene 1 of act ii.,

Elizabeth's bower. He read it to Powles, who is decidedly for keep

ing it in just as it and thinks ought to offend no one. Hea
                    is,                 it                                                            is
                                             it
                                     :
very desirous to show the MSS. to A. G. Scott, Mrs. H. Coleridge,

Tennyson, and Van Artevelde Taylor. He says that ought to do
                                                          iIf
                                                                   I I it

                                                                                                   ;
great good with those who can take in, but for those who cannot,

    ought to have preface and has more than hinted that he will help
it
..."me to one, by writing me something which,                      like,                            can prefix.
   is I                                                                                               expected.
What more would you have? .
    " Coleridge's opinion of the poem
                                        a                 far higher than
                                                      is
He sent me to Pickering with highly recommendatory note which

however, joined with Maurice's preface, was not sufficient to make him

tak"e  the risk off my hands.           in  the           Strand.  am at once very
         am now going to Parker's,                                 I

                                                                                                                      !
happy, very lonely, and very anxious. How absence increases love

It positively good sometimes to be parted, that one's affection may

become conscious of itself, and proud, and humble, and thankful
                     "
accordingly

   Messrs. Parker, of 445, West Strand, undertook the publica
tion, and he writes joyfully to Mr. Powles.

    " St. Elizabeth     in the press, having been taken off my hands by
I

              ' I,

                                 is

                       I

                                       J.

                                                                      it,
                                                                                  is
                                                                                               it
                                                                                                             it, it.
                                                                                                                           it a
the heroic magnanimity of Mr. Parker, West Strand, who, though

burnt child, does not dread the fire. No one else would have
   " Maurice's preface comes out with and inestimable not only to

myself but to all men who shall have the luck to read and the

wit to understand it.   had hoped to have shown                    to you before
went, but non concessere columnar.' "

   His eldest son was born this year, and named after Mr.
Maurice, who with Mr. Powles, stood sponsors to the boy. In
the summer he took his wife and two children for six weeks to
Milford, a little sea-side place near the edge of the New Forest.

    was his first six weeks' holiday since his marriage, which he
It

148 Charles Kingsley.

earned by taking the Sunday services of Pennington, near

Lymington. Here he had a horse, and the rides in the beau
tiful scenery of the New Forest, dear to him from old associa

tion with his father's youth and manhood, excited his imagina

tion. It was only either at a great crisis in his life, or in a

time when all his surroundings were in perfect harmony, that he
could compose poetry. And now, when in the forest, and in the

saddle once more, or alone with his beloved ones, with leisure to

watch his babies, his heart's spring bubbled up into song, and he
composed several ballads :-- " Oh she tripped over Ocknell plain,"
" The Red King," and " The Outlaw."

   He explored the forest day after day, with deep delight, and
laid up a store of impressions which in later years he began

to work up into a New Forest Novel. This, however, was never

completed.

I" " recollect well,"  he says, in reference     to this  happy summer time,
  having the value of  a stern straight line in   nature  brought home to me,

when during a long ride in the New Forest, after my eye had become

quite dulled and wearied with the monotonous softness of rolling lawns,

feathery heath, and rounded oak and beech woods, I suddenly caught

sight of the sharp-peaked roof of Rhinefield Lodge and its row of tall

stiff poplar-spires, cutting the endless sea of curves. The relief to my
Ieye was delicious.
                       really believe it heightened the pleasure with which
I reined in my mare for a chat with old Toomer the keeper, and the

noble bloodhound who eyed me from between his master's legs."*

                       * Prose Idylls, p. 284.

CHAPTER VII.

1848.

Aged 29.

PUBLICATION OF "SAINT'S TRAGEDY "--CHARTIST RIOTS-- TENTII  OF ArRi!.-
                                                             COLLEtiE-
POLITICS FOR THE PEOPLE -- PROFESSORSHIP  AT  QUEEN'S

" YEAST "--ILLNESS-- LETTER ON MARRIAGE.

   " This is true liberty when freeborn men

      Having to advise the public may speak free ;
Which he who can or will, deserves high praise ;
Who neither can, nor will, may hold his peace ;
What can be juster in a state like this ? "

                            Euriimdes, Translation by Mn.TON.

CHAPTER VII.

   THIS year, so marked in the history of Europe, was one of
the most important of Charles Kingsley's life. " The Saint's
Tragedy" was published soon after Christmas, and, though it

made little impression on the literary world in England, yet gave
him in one sense a new position, especially among young men
at the universities. The Drama was eagerly read at Oxford,

and fiercely attacked by the high church party, who were to be
made still more bitter against its author by the publication of
" Yeast," which came out later in the year as a serial in " Fraser's
Magazine." He was surprised himself to find the interest " The

Saint's Tragedy " had excited at Oxford. In Germany it was

read and appreciated, and Chevalier Bunsen expressed his
opinion in very strong terms about it. In higher quarters still
the genius of the author was recognized.

   In a letter to Max Miiller, written after the publication of
" Hypatia," but in which he speaks of its author more as poet
than novelist, Baron Bunsen says :--

" Of Kingsley's dramatic power I do not hesitate to call these two

works, ' The Saint's Tragedy ' and ' Hypatia,' by far the most important
and perfect of this genial writer. In these, more particularly, I find
Ithe justification of a hope which
                                    beg to be allowed to express,
Ithat Kingsley might continue Shakespeare's historical plays.
                                                                                 have

for several years made no secret of that Kingsley seems to me the
'
                                 '

                                     it,
                                                                             is
genius of our country called to place by the side of that sublime

dramatic series from King John to Henry VIII., another series from

Edward VI. to the landing of William of Orange. This the only

historical development of Europe which unites in itself all vital

elements, and which we might look upon without overpowering pain.

The tragedy of St. Elizabeth shows that Kingsley can grapple, not

only with the novel, but with the more severe rules of dramatic art.

152 Charles Kingsley.

And ' Hypatia ' proves on the largest scale that he can discover in the

picture of the historical past, the truly human, the deep, the permanent,
                                          How, with all this, he can hit
and that he knows how to represent  is
                                        it.

                                                   ?

                                                                  is
                                                                          a

                                                                                               '
the fresh tone of popular life, and draw humorous characters and compli
cations with Shakespearian energy, proved by all his works. And why

should he not undertake this great task   There               time when the

true poet, the prophet of the present, must bid farewell to the questions
of theday, which seem so great because they are so near, but are, in
truth, but small and unpoetical. He must say to himself, Let the
dead bury their dead:' and the time has come that Kingsley should

do so."

   The Tragedy was reviewed, not very favourably, by Mr. (after
wards Professor) Conington at Oxford. This, however, led to an
acquaintance, between author and critic, which soon ripened
into friendship and when, in the course of a few months,
" Politics for the People " were published, Mr. Conington became
not only warm ally in the cause, but regular contributor,

and constant visitor at Eversley.
           a                            iIf
                                                         a
                          ;                                a
                                                      9, 'I
                                J.
                   TO CONINGTON, ESQ.

   " You   must pardon my addressing                           January 15, 1848.
           but as my friend B. has shown
quainted,                                   you while personally unac
                                          me letter of yours in which,

among many kind expressions with regard to the Saint's Tragedy,' you

seem to have mistaken my drift in one scene, self-preservation puts me

on speaking. You seem to think that scene act contains a
                                                              ii.
sweeping denunciation of political economy.'
                                                                          I'
                                                              beg to say that

should be very angry with myself          saw cause to agree with you.

Political economy                   true inductive science, and its laws (as far as
I

                        a is
                                 a
laws, and not mere empirical maxims, have been discovered in                                      are
                                                              I
                                                                        it)
God's laws, and not merely physical ones, but holding true, think, in

the higher region of pure metaphysics: e.g., 'supply and demand.'
And think that good initiation into the said science would be of

good service to our clergy in these very days. But for this very reason
we are bound to testify against the miserable eclecticism of certain
small-minded men -- Scotch glen- clearers and others, who take up just

as much political economy as suits their own selfishness and laziness,

and by working out one single law to the exclusion of its fair limita-

tives, arrive at results more diabolic than social. Thus in the scene

                         Visit to Oxford.                              153

in my play the individual principles which the Abbot, &c., vent, are

true in themselves : it is the speakers who caricature them into false

hood in the details. You must not forget that in free art, an author is

not to be supposed to be execrating every opinion which he thinks fit

to put in an execrable mouth.
   " For anachronisms-- they are intentional -- in that particular scene

the anachronism is in the expressions, and not in the notions embodied

Iin them. But throughout my play have followed the Shakespearian

method of bringing the past up to my readers, and not the modern one

of bringing my readers down to the past, and should follow             unless
                                               :
my opinions much change, in any future work."
                                                       a
                                                                  it,
    During the winter he went to Oxford to stay few days
with his friend, Mr. Powles, Fellow of Exeter and he writes

to his wife --
        II
                :                          Oxford, March 30, 1S48.

". .             may, suppose, tell you that am here undergoing the
      .              ;I          if
                                      a
new process of being made a lion of, at least so Powles tells me.I

They got up meeting for me, and the club was crowded with men
                 aa
merely to see poor me, so found out afterwards very lucky that did!I

not know during the process of being trotted out. It very funny
        ;                                      II :
                                                          ;
          is it                                                     is
                                                                   I
and new.             dine this afternoon with Conington to-morrow with

Palgrave Monday with Stanley, and so on.       like Conington very

much; he             good, hearty piece of nature; and like his review very

much. Of course he did not go to the bottom on the Love and

Marriage question but there he showed his sense. Froude gets more
                                       conversation this morning --
and more interesting. We had such

the crust breaking, and the man coming through that cold polishedis

shell. My darling babies kiss them very much for me. Monday
                                                                        I

go to Chalgrove Field, to see Hampden's martyr place."

His parish work this year was possible more vigorous than

ever. Every winter's evening was occupied with either night-

school at the rectory, about thirty men attending or little ser
                                                        ;
vices in the outlying cottages for the infirm and labouring men;

                                                                aa
after their day's work. During the spring and summer writing

class was held for girls in the empty coach-house                   cottage
school for infants was also begun on the common -- all preparing

the way for the National School that was to be built some years

154 Charles Kingsley.

later, and for which the teacher was in training. The parish

made a great step forward. The number of communicants in

creased. The daily services and evening sermons in Passion

week seemed to borrow intenser fervour and interest from the

strange events of the great world outside the small quiet parish,

and though poorly attended, still gathered together a few

labouring folk.

The political events which shook all Europe to its very foun

dations, stirred his blood, and seemed for the time to give him a

supernatural strength, which kept up till the autumn, when he
completely broke down. He wrote an article for " Fraser's Maga

zine" (the first  he  ever   contributed to a periodical) on Popery :
" Why should      we   fear   the Romish Priests ? " following up his
" Saint's Tragedy," which had struck the key note of the after
work of his life ; and " Yeast " now was seething in his mind.
Of his contributions to " Politics for the People " more will be

said hereafter. He preached to his people on emigration, on

poaching, and on the political and social disturbances of the

day. In addition to parish and literary work he accepted the

Professorship of English Literature and Composition at Queen's
College, Harley Street, then in its infancy, of which Mr. Maurice

was President, and he went up to London to give a lecture once

a week. He was also proposed for a professorship at King's

College. He was in constant communication with Mr. Maurice

and the knot of remarkable men who gathered round him. He

made acquaintance with Bishop Stanley of Norwich, and his

distinguished son ; with Archdeacon Hare, Arthur Helps, John
Hullah, James Anthony Froude, John Malcolm Ludlow, and
many other men of mark, but to none did he become more

strongly attached than to Mr. Thomas Hughes.

On the news of the Chartist rising and petition reaching

Eversley, he determined, having closed his evening classes in the

parish for the winter, to go to London for a few days ; and on
the morning of the ioth of April, with his friend Mr. John
Parker, jun., who had been spending the Sunday at Eversley, he

went up to see what was going on. Mr. Parker, like many

owners of property in London, was nervous and anxious about

the results of the day, telling Mrs. Kingsley, half in joke as he

           Tenth of April.                                           155

left the door, that she might expect to hear of his shop having
been broken into, and himself thrown into the Trafalgar Square

fountains by the mob.
   On arriving in London, they went to the house of business at

445, West Strand, then on to Mr. Maurice's ; and in the afternoon
he and Mr. Ludlow walked to Kennington Common, where
pouring rain damped the spirits of the crowds assembled. By
mid-day post he wrote to Eversley.

"... All is right as yet.                           London, April 10, Monday.
                                Large crowds, but no one expects any

row, as the Chartists will not face Westminster Bridge, but are gone

round by London Bridge and Holborn, and are going to send up only

the legal number of Delegates to the House. I am just going on to

Maurice. The only fear is marauding in the suburbs at night; but
I Ido not fear for me, shall be safe at Chelsea at 5.
                                                       met Colonel

Herman, who says there is no danger at all, and the two Mansfields, who
Iare gone as specials, to get hot, dusty, and tired --nothing else.
                                                                     will

send down a letter by the latest post."

                                                                        April 11, Tuesday, 8 a.m.

  "All as quiet as a mouse as yet. The storm is blown over till

to-morrow, but all are under arms --specials, police, and military.

Maurice is in great excitement. He has sent me to Ludlow, the

barrister who wrote those letters from France, and we are getting out

Iplacards for the walls, to speak a word for God with. You must let

me stay up to-night, for Iam helping in a glorious work ; and go

to breakfast with Maurice now, and to spend the evening with Arch

deacon Hare, Scott, and himself. Send down to the cottage lecture,
Iand say shall not have it till Saturday, and say that the riots have
Ikept me.
           feel we may do something. Pray for us that God may

guide us, and open our mouths to speak boldly. Maurice insists on

my helping at King's College."

                                         April ii, Evening.
I" The events of a week have been crowded into a few hours.
                                                                     was

up till 4 this morning, writing posting placards under Maurice's
auspices, one of which is to be got out to-morrow morning, the rest

when we can get money. Could you not beg a few sovereigns some
where, to help these poor wretches to the truest alms ?-- to words --

texts from the Psalms, any thing which may keep one man from cutting

his brother's throat to-morrow or Friday ? Pray, pray, help us. Maurice

156 Charles Kingsley.

has given me the highest proof of confidence. He has taken me into

Icounsel, and we are to have meetings for prayer and study, when

come up to London, and we are to bring out a new set of real ' Tracts

for the Times,' addressed to the higher orders. Maurice is a la hauteur

Ifi/cs circonstances-- determined to make a decisive move. He says : '
the Oxford tracts did wonders, why should not we ? ' Pray for us.
A glorious future is opening, and both Maurice and Ludlow seem to
have driven away all my doubts and sorrows, and I see the blue sky
                              "
again and my Father's  face
                             !

   On Wednesday, the I2th, all was still quiet, and this placard
which he had written was posted up, in London.

              "WORKMEN OF ENGLAND!

" You say that you are wronged. Many of you are wronged ; and

many besides yourselves know                                     Almost all men who have heads
              it
                                      it.
and hearts know --above all, the working clergy know it. They

go into your houses, they see the shameful filth and darkness* in

which you are forced to live crowded together they see your children
                                                                 ;

                                                                                       a
                                                                                                 it, ;
growing up in ignorance and temptation, for want of fit education they

see intelligent and well-read men among you, shut out from Freeman's

just right of voting and they see too the noble patience and self-con
          it.
                             ;                                                                          and

                                                           !
trol with which you have as yet borne these evils. They see

God sees

"WORKMEN OF ENGLAND                                           You have more friends than you think

for. Friends who expect nothing from you, but who love you, because

you are their brothers, and who fear God, and therefore dare not neg
lect you, His children men who are drudging and sacrificing them
                       ;
                                     ;
selves to get you your rights men who know what your rights are,

better than you know yourselves, who are trying to get for you something
nobler than charters and dozens of Acts of Parliament --more useful than

this 'fifty thousandth share in Talker in the National Palaver ata
Westminster can give you. You may disbelieve them, insult them--
          '+

you cannot stop their working for you, beseeching you as you love your

selves, to turn back from the precipice of riot, which ends in the gulf

of universal distrust, stagnation, starvation.
   " You think the Charter would make you free --would to God
                                                                 it
would The Charter not bad                                                              ! it
!                                                                the men who use are tiot bad

           t
                            is
                                                  ;
                             if
              * The Window tax was not then taken off.
                 Carlyle.

                                    A Penny Periodical.                             157

But will the Charter make you free ? Will it free you from slavery to

ten-pound bribes ? Slavery to beer and gin ? Slavery to every spouter

who flatters your self-conceit, and stirs up bitterness and headlong rage

Iin you ? That, guess, is real slavery ; to be a slave to one's own

stomach, one's own pocket, one's own temper. Will the Charter cure

thatl Friends,   you want more than Acts                     of Parliament can give.
   " Englishmen  ! Saxons ! Workers of
                                                             the great, cool-headed, strong-

handed nation of England, the workshop of the world, the leader of

freedom for 700 years, men say you have common-sense ! then do not
humbug yourselves into meaning ' licence,' when you cry for ' liberty ; '

who would dare refuse you freedom ? for the Almighty God, and Jesus
Christ, the poor Man, who died for poor men, will bring it about for

you, though all the Mammonites of the earth were against you. A

nob"leBrutdatyheisredawwilnl inbge  for  England, a day of freedom, science, industry !
                                    no   true freedom without virtue, no true science

without religion, no true industry without the fear of God, and love to

you"rWfeolrlokwer-csitiozef nEs.ngland, be wise, and then you must be free, for you

will be fit to be free.                                      " A Working Parson."

   On the evening of the 12th, Archdeacon Hare, Mr. Maurice,
and this little group of friends assembled at Mr. John Parker's
rooms, West Strand, whence he writes home,

 "... Parker's, Strand, April 12, 6 p.m.
           I really cannot go home this afternoon. I have spent it with

Archdeacon Hare, and Parker, starting a new periodical -- a Penny
' People's Friend,' in which Maurice, Hare, Ludlow, Mansfield, and I,

&c. are going to set to work, to supply the place of the defunct ' Saturday
IMagazine.'
             send you my first placard. Maurice is delighted with                   a it.

   cannot tell you the interest which has excited with every one who
I                                   is I

                                                         it
has seen it. It brought the tears into old Parker's eyes, who was once

working printer's boy.                   have got          £2already  10s. towards  bringing

out more, and Maurice subscription-hunting for me. He took me to

Jelf to-day, the King's College principal, who received me very kindly,

and expressed himself very anxious to get me the professorship, and

will write to me as soon as the advertisements are out.               I  will be down

at Winchfield to-morrow. Kiss the babes for me. Parker begs to re

mark that he has not been thrown into the Trafalgar fountain.

   On the 13th, he returned to Eversley much exhausted, and
preached on the Chartist riots to his own people the following

 158 Charles Kingsley,

Sunday. And now working in his parish, writing for the
" Politics," preparing his lectures for Queen's College, and send
ing in testimonials* for a professorship at King's College, for
which Mr. Maurice had proposed him to the Council, filled up
every moment of time. The various writers for the " Politics,"
including Mr. Conington, were continually coming to Eversley
to talk over their work and consult " Parson Lot."

    As one of the few survivors of those most intimately associated
with the author of "Alton Locke," his friend, Mr. Tom Hughes,
has written an eloquent preface to a fresh reprint of that work
and of " Cheap Clothes, and Nasty," from which he has kindly
allowed the following extracts to be used. Mr. Hughes, speaking
of the distinct period of Charles Kingsley's life extending from
1848 to 1856, says:--

  "... Look at them from what point we will, these years must be

allowed to cover an anxious and critical time in modern English history ;

but, above all, in the history of the working classes. In the first of

them the Chartist agitation came to a head and burst, and was followed
by the great movement towards association, which, developing in two
directions and by two distinct methods -- represented respectively by the
amalgamated Trades Unions, and Co-operative Societies --has in the
intervening years entirely changed the conditions of the labour question
in England, and the relations of the working to the upper and middle

classes. It is with this, the social and industrial side of the history of

those years, that we are mainly concerned here. Charles Kingsley has
left other and more important writings of those years. But these are
beside our purpose, which is to give some such slight sketch of him as
may be possible within the limits of a preface, in the character in which
he was first widely known, as the most out-spoken and powerful of those
who took the side of the labouring classes, at a critical time -- the crisis
in a word, when they abandoned their old political weapons, for the
more potent one of union and association, which has since carried them

so far. To no one of all those by whom his memory is tenderly

cherished can this seem a superfluous task, for no writer was ever more
misunderstood or better abused at the time, and after the lapse of almost
a quarter of a century, the misunderstanding would seem still to hold its

"  * These testimonials   were chiefly based on the historic   power displayed in the
   Saint's Tragedy," and  on his own high personal character,  from the Bishop of his

Diocese, Archdeacon Hare, and many other friends.

Parson Lot.  159

ground. For through all the many notices of him which appeared after
his death, in last January, there ran the same apologetic tone as to this
part of his life's work. While generally, and as a rule cordially, recog

nizing his merits as an author and a man, the writers seemed to agree
in passing lightly over this ground. When it was touched it was in a
tone of apology, sometimes tinged with sarcasm, as in the curt notice in
the ' Times ' -- ' He was understood to be the Parson Lot of those
' Politics for the People ' which made no little noise in their time, and as
Parson Lot he declared in burning language that to his mind the fault
in the ' People's Charter ' was that it did not go nearly far enough.'
And so the writer turns away, as do most of his brethren, leaving pro
bably some such impression as this on the minds of most of their

readers -- : Young men of power and genius are apt to start with wild
notions. He was no exception. Parson Lot's sayings and doings may

well be pardoned for what Charles Kingsley said and did in after years ;

so let us drop a decent curtain over them, and pass on.' Now as almost
a generation has passed since that signature used to appear at the foot of
some of the most noble and vigorous writing of our time, readers of to

day are not unlikely to accept this view, and so to find further confir
mation and encouragement in the example of Parson Lot for the mis
chievous and cowardly distrust of anything like enthusiasm amongst

young men, already sadly too pervalent in England. If it were only as

a protest against this ' surtout point de zele ' spirit, against which it was
one of Charles Kingsley's chief tasks to fight with all his strength, it is
well that the facts should be set right. This done, readers may safely
be left to judge what need there is for the apologetic tone in connection
with the name, the sayings, and doings of Parson Lot. My first meeting
with him was in the autumn of 1847, at the house of Mr. Maurice, who
had lately been appointed Reader of Lincoln's Inn. No parochial work
is attached to that post, so Mr. Maurice had undertaken the charge of a
small district in the parish in which he lived, and had set a number of
young men, chiefly students of the Inns of Court, who had been attracted
by his teaching, to work in it. Once a week, on Monday evenings,

they used to meet at his house for tea, when their own work was reported
upon and talked over. Suggestions were made and plans considered ;

and afterwards a chapter of the Bible was read and discussed. Friends
and old pupils of Mr. Maurice's, residing in the country, or in distant
parts of London, were in the habit of coming occasionally to these
meetings, amongst whom was Charles Kingsley.

   " His poem,* and the high regard and admiration which Mr. Maurice
had for him, made him a notable figure in that small society, and his

                                        * "The Saint's Tragedy."

160 Charles Kingsley.

presence was always eagerly looked for. What impressed me most
about him when we first met was, his affectionate deference to Mr.
Maurice, and the vigour and incisiveness of everything he said and did.
He had the power of cutting out what he meant in a few clear words,
beyond any one I have ever met. The next thing that struck one was,
the ease with which he could turn from playfulness, or even broad

humour, to the deepest earnest. At first I think this startled most persons,
until they came to find out the real deep nature of the man ; and that

his broadest humour had its root in a faith which realized, with extra
ordinary vividness, the fact that God's Spirit is actively abroad in the
world, and that Christ is in every man, and made him hold fast, even

in his saddest moments, -- and sad moments were not infrequent with
him, -- the assurance that, in spite of all appearances, the world was
going right, and would go right somehow, ' Not your way, or my way, but
God's way.' The contrast of his humility and audacity, of his distrust
in himself and confidence in himself, was one of those puzzles which
meet us daily in this world of paradox. But both qualities gave him a
peculiar power for the work he had to do at that time, with which the
name of Parson Lot is associated. It was at one of these gatherings,
towards the end of 1847 or early in 1848, when Kingsley found himself
in a minority of one, that he said jokingly, he felt much as Lot must
have felt in the Cities of the Plain, when he seemed as one that mocked
to his sons-in-law. The name Parson Lot was then and there suggested,
and adopted by him, as a familiar nom de plume. He used it from

1848 up to 1856 ; at first constantly, latterly much more rarely. But
the name was chiefly made famous by his writings in ' Politics for the
People,' 'the Christian Socialist,' and the 'Journal of Association,'
three periodicals which covered the years from '48 to '52 ; by 'Alton
Locke,' and by tracts and pamphlets, of which the best known,

' Cheap Clothes, and Nasty,' is now republished.
   " In order to understand and judge the sayings and writings of Parson

Lot fairly, it is necessary to recall the condition of the England of
that day. Through the winter of 1847-8, amidst wide spread distress,
the cloud of discontent, of which chartism was the most violent symp
tom, had been growing darker and more menacing, while Ireland was
only held down by main force. The breaking out of the revolution
on the Continent in February increased the danger. In March there
were riots in London, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Liverpool, and other large
towns. On April 7th, ' the Crown and Government Security Bill,'
commonly called ' the Gagging Act,' was introduced by the Govern

ment, the first reading carried by 265 to 24, and the second, a few
days later, by 452 to 35. On the 10th of April the Government

                                 The Chartists.                              161

had to fill London with troops, and put the Duke of Wellington in

command, who barricaded the bridges and Downing Street, garrisoned

the Bank and other public buildings, and closed the Horse Guards.

When the momentary crisis had passed, the old soldier declared in the

House of Lords, that no great society had ever suffered as London

had during the preceding days, while the Home Secretary telegraphed

to all the chief magistrates of the kingdom the joyful news that the

peace had been kept in London. In April, the Lord Chancellor, in

introducing the Crown and Government Security Bill in the House of
Lords, referred to the fact, that ' meetings were daily held, not only in

London, but in most of the manufacturing towns, the avowed object

of which was to array the people against the constituted authority of

these realms.' For months afterwards the Chartist movement, though

plainly subsiding, kept the Government in constant anxiety ; and again

in June, 1848, the Bank, the Mint, the Custom House, and other

public offices were filled with troops, and the Houses of Parliament
were not only garrisoned but provisioned as if for a siege.
                                                                             The
   " From that time, all fear of serious danger passed away.

Chartists were completely discouraged, and their leaders in prison ;

and the upper and middle classes were recovering rapidly from the

alarm which had converted a million of them into special constables,

and were beginning to doubt whether the crisis had been so serious

after all, whether the disaffection had ever been more than skin deep.

At this juncture a series of articles appeared in the Morning Chronicle,

on London labour and the London poor, which startled the well-to-do

classes out of their jubilant and scornful attitude, and disclosed a

state of things which made all fair-minded people wonder, not that

there had been violent speaking and some rioting, but that the metro

polis had escaped the scenes which had lately been enacted in Paris,

Vienna,   Berlin,   and other    Continental capitals.      the  strain  to  which
         is only   by an effort   that one can now realise
   " It

the nation was subjected during that winter and spring, and which,

of course, tried every individual man also, according to the depth and

earnestness of his political and social convictions and sympathies.

The group of men who were working under Mr. Maurice were no
exceptions to the rule. The work of teaching and visiting was not,

indeed, neglected, but the larger questions which were being so

strenuously mooted-- the points of the people's charter, the right of

public meeting, the attitude of the labouring class to the other classes,

absorbed more and more of their attention. Kingsley was very deeply

Iimpressed with the gravity and danger of the crisis -- more so, think,

than almost any of his friends; probably because, as a country parson,

1 62 Charles Kingsley.

he was more directly in contact with one class of the poor than any of
them. How deeply he felt for the agricultural poor, how faithfully he
reflected the passionate and restless sadness of the time, may be read
in the pages of ' Yeast, 'which came out later in ' Fraser.' As the

winter months went on this sadness increased, and seriously affected
his health." *

   On the 6th of May the first number of "Politics for the
People " appeared. Its regular contributors were nearly all
university men, clergymen of the Church of England, London

barristers, men of science, and among them Archdeacon Hare,

Sir Arthur  (then Mr.) Helps,   and a distinguished           London phy
            few letters from     working men, one             signed " One
sician. A

of the wicked Chartists of Kennington Common," were readily

admitted. Three papers on the National Gallery and British

Museum, three letters to Chartists, some poetry, and a tale,
" The Nun's Pool," which was rejected by the publisher as

too strong, were Mr. Kingsley's only contributions. His weekly

lecture at Queen's College, with two sermons every Sunday, and

his  indefatigable  parish   w" oProkliti(chse."hadItthweans  no curate), prevented
his  doing more     for the                                   a remarkable though

short-lived publication, and those whose opinions of the " Radi

cals, Socialists, Chartists," who set it on foot, were formed by

the public press, without reading the book itself, would be sur

prised at the loyal, conservatist, serious tone of its contents, and
the gravity, if not severity, with which it attacked physical force

Chartism, monster meetings, and the demand for universal suf

frage by men who had neither education nor moral self-government
                                                                    to " that
to qualify them for  a   vote.  To avoid misconception          as  People's
burning language "   in  which  Parson Lot said " that        the

Charter did not go far enough" to which the Times of January 25th,
1875, refers, the first letter to Chartists is given at full length.

                    LETTERS TO CHARTISTS. No. L
" MY FRIENDS, --
     " If I give you credit for being sincere, you must give me
Icredit for being so too. I am a radical reformer.
                                                              am not one of

     * From Mr. Thomas Hughes' Preface to "Alton Locke," and " Cheap Clothes,

and Nasty," by Parson Lot.

                                     Letters to Chartists.                                     163

Ithose who laugh at your petition of the 10th of April; have no

patience with those who do. Suppose there were but 250,000 honest

names on that sheet. Suppose the Charter itself were all stuff, yet you

have still a right to fair play, a patient hearing, an honourable and cour

teous answer, whichever way it may be. But my only quarrel with the

Charter          I       that does not go far enough in reform.                  want to see you
                    I is,     it                                        I
free; but do not see how what you ask for will give you what you
                                      :                                        '
                                                                                  a
                                   I
want.                think you have fallen into just the same mistake as the rich
of whom you complain -- the very mistake which has been our curse

and our nightmare                        mean, the mistake of fancying that legislative

Ifreform social reform, or that men's hearts can be changed by Act ofis

Parliament.                   anyone will tell me of country where charter made
                                                     a
                                                                shall alter my opinion of
                                                        I
the rogues honest, or the idle industrious,

the Charter, but not till then, ^disappointed me bitterly when read                    ' ?I I

it. It seemed harmless cry enough, but poor, bald, constitution-

mongering cry as ever heard. That French cry of Organization of
                 '                                   it,
Labour                                                              a
                     is
                                 a

                           I
                           worth a thousand of and yet that does not go to the

bottom of the matter                 by  many    Ia  mile.
   " But have more                       serious     complaint against
                 I                                                      Chartism than this,
                     I

                                  a
and because love you well, and, God my witness, would die to
                                                     is

make you free, and am, even now, pleading your cause with all my

powers,          I   shall not be afraid to rebuke you boldly at first. Why do

you yourselves blacken Chartism in people's eyes                                 Why do you give
                                                                        I I' ?
a fair handle for all the hard things which are said of you                                  mean
                                                                                    '
this, and        I         speak honestly of what happened to my own self. The

other day, being in London, said to myself,                                      will see what the

Chartists are saying and doing just now              a                  and set off to find    a
                                                        ;

                                                             '
Chartist newspaper, and found one in shop where The People's

Charter,' and 'Lamartine's Address to the Irish Deputation,' and

various Chartist books were sold. Now, as book, as well as a man,
                                                     I
may be known by his companions,                                      a
                                                     looked round the shop to see

what was the general sort of stock there, and, behold, there was hardly
anything but Flash Songsters,' and the Swell's Guide,' and Tales of
                           '                         '

Horror,' and dirty milksop French novels.             I         opened the leading article

of the paper, and there were fine words enough, and some really noble

and eloquent words, too, which stirred my blood and brought the tears
into my eyes, about divine liberty,' and heaven-born fraternity,' and
                                     '               ''
                                                                        ;
                                              a
                                                                              '
the cause of the poor being the cause of God all which knew
I                                                                                      'I
              '                                                                               I
well enough before, from very different Reformer's Guide,' to which

hope to have the pleasure of introducing you some day. Well,'

said to myself, 'the cause of God seems to have fallen into ugly
                           If poverty sends
company.                                          a  man to strange bed-fellows, 'divine

164 Charles Kingsley.

liberty ' must be in a very poor way ; heaven-born brotherhood has

fraternized here with some very blackguard brethren.  The shop
cannot be a really Chartist shop, the paper has got in here by chance. '
'I INo ! as read on,
                      found that almost the only books puffed in the

advertising column of the paper itself were the same French dirt

which lay on the counter : ' Voltaire's Tales,' ' Tom Paine,' and by
Iway of a
finish,  ' The        Devil's  Pulpit    '  ' Well,'  thought, ' what must
                                       !

the author of that noble poem, ' The Purgatory of Suicides,' feel,

when he sees the cause for which he suffered defiled by such stuff

as this ! These are strange times ! I had thought the devil used

to befriend tyrants and oppressors, but he seems to have profited

by Burns' advice, to ' tak' a thought an' men'.' I thought the

struggling freeman's watchword was, ' God sees my wrongs, He hath
taken the matter into His own hands, the poor committeth himself
unto Him, for He is the helper of the friendless.' But now the devil

seems all at once to have turned philanthropist and patriot, and to

intend himself to fight the good cause, against which he has been

fighting ever since Adam's time. I don't deny, my friends, it is

much cheaper and pleasanter to be reformed by the devil than by

God ; for God will only reform society on condition of our reforming
every man his own self-- while the devil is quite ready to help us

to mend the laws and the parliament, earth and heaven, without
ever starting such an impertinent and ' personal ' request, as that a
man should mend himself. That liberty of the subject he will always

respect.

   " But I must say honestly, whomsoever I may offend, the more I have

read of your convention speeches and newspaper articles the more con

vinced I am that too many of you are trying to do God's work with

the devil's tools. What is the use of brilliant language about peace,

and the majesty of order, and universal love, though it may all be

printed in letters a foot long, when it runs in the same team with

ferocity, railing, mad one-eyed excitement, talking itself into a passion

like a street-woman ? Do you fancy that after a whole column spent
in stirring men up to fury, a few twaddling copy-book headings about
the ' sacred duty of order ' will lay the storm again ? What spirit is

there but the devil's spirit, in bloodthirsty threats of revenge ? What
brotherhood ought you to have with the ' United Irishman ' party,

who pride themselves on their hatred to your nation, and recommend
schemes of murder which a North American Indian, trained to scalping

from his youth, would account horrible ? When they have learnt that
' Justice to Ireland ' does not mean hell broke loose there ; when they
have repented and amended of their madness, as God grant they may,

                   Letters to Chartists.  165

then you may treat them as brothers; but till then, those who bid

them God-speed are partakers of their evil deeds. In the name of

liberty and brotherhood, in the name of the poor man's cause and the

I Ipoor man's God, protest against this unnatural alliance I denounce

the weapons which you have been deluded into employing, to gain you

your rights, and the indecency and profligacy which you are letting be
mixed up with them ! Will you strengthen and justify your enemies ?
Will you disgust and cripple your friends? Will you go out of your way

to do wrong ? When you can be free by fair means, will you try foul ?

When you might keep the name of liberty as spotless as the heaven

from whence she comes, will you defile her with blasphemy, beastliness

and blood ? When the cause of the poor is the cause of Almighty

God, will you take it out of His hands to entrust it to the devil ?

These are bitter questions, but as you answer them so will you

prosper. ' Be fit to be free, and God Himself will set you free.' Do

God's work, and you will share God's wages. 'Trust in the Lord,

and be doing good, dwell in the land, and, verily, thou shalt be fed.
Commit thy way unto the Lord, and He shall bring it to pass.' For

the time is near, at last, my friends, even at the doors, when those

glorious old words shall be fulfilled : ' Thou, Lord, hast heard

the desire of the poor : Thou preparest their heart, and Thine

ear hearkeneth thereto ; to help the fatherless and the poor unto

their right, that the man of the world be no more exalted against
them ! '
                                          " Parson Lot."

"ItIn Letter II. he tells them that if they have followed a different
" Reformer's Guide" from his,     is mainly the fault of us parsons,

who have never told you that the true ' Reformer's Guide,' the true

poor man's book, the true voice of God against tyrants, idlers, and

humbugs, was the Bible.           The Bible demands for the poor as

much, and more, than they demand for themselves ; it expresses the

deepest yearnings of the poor man's heart far more nobly, more

searchingly, more daringly, more eloquently, than any modern
Iorator has done.  say, it gives a ray of hope -- say rather a certain

dawn of a glorious future, such as no universal suffrage, free trade,

communism, organization of labour, or any other Morrison's-pill

measure can give-- and yet of a future, which will embrace all that is

good in these, a future of conscience, of justice, of freedom, when idlers
Iand oppressors shall no more dare to plead parchments and Acts of
Parliament for their iniquities.  say the Bible promises this, not in a

few places only, but throughout : it is the thought which runs through

1 66 Charles Kingsley.

the whole Bible, justice from God to those whom men oppress, glory
from God to those whom men despise. Does that look like the inven
tion of tyrants and prelates ? You may sneer, but give me a fair hear

Iing, and if do not prove my words, then call me the same hard name
Iwhich shall call any man who, having read the Bible, denies that it is

the poor man's comfort, and the rich man's warning."

  IBut to return to Mr. Hughes's Preface, " think," he says, " I know

every line which was ever published under the signature, ' Parson

Lot,' and I take it upon myself to say that there is in all that

' burning language ' nothing more revolutionary than the extracts given

above from his letters to the Chartists. But, it may be said, apart

from his writings, did not Parson Lot declare himself a Chartist in a

public meeting in London ; and did he not preach in a London pulpit

a political sermon,* which brought up the incumbent, who had invited

him, to protest from the altar against the doctrine which had just been

delivered ?                           Here are the facts as to the speech.

   " Yes ! both statements are true.

In the early summer of 1848, some of those who felt with Charles Kingsley
that the ' People's Charter ' had not had fair play or courteous treat

ment, and that those who signed it had real wrongs to complain of, put

themselves into communication with the leaders, and met and talked

with them. At last it seemed that the time was come for some more

public meeting, and one was called at the Cranbourn Tavern, over

which Mr. Maurice presided. After the president's address several

very bitter speeches followed, and a vehement attack was specially

directed against the church and the clergy. The meeting waxed warm,

and seemed likely to come to no good, when Kingsley rose, folded his
arms across his chest, threw his head back, and began -- with the stammer

which always came at first when much moved, but which fixed every

one's attention at once -- ' I am a Church of England parson '-- a long

pause -- 'and a Chartist;' and then he went on to explain how far

he thought them right in their claim for a reform of Parliament ; how

deeply he sympathized with their sense of the injustice of the law as it

affected them ; how ready he was to help in all ways to get these things

set right ; and then to denounce their methods in very much the same

Iterms as have already quoted from his letters to the Chartists. Pro

Ibably no one who was present ever heard a speech which told more at
the time.  had a singular proof that the effect did not pass away.

   * This incident belongs to a later period, 1851, and will be given in its

place.

                          Parson Lot.                                                                                     167

The most violent speaker on that occasion was one of the staff of the
Ileading Chartist newspaper.
                               lost sight of him entirely for more than

twenty years, and saw him again, a little grey shrivelled man, by

Kingsley's side, at the grave of Mr. Maurice, in the cemetery at

Hampstead.
   " The experience of this meeting encouraged its promoters to con

tinue the series of Tracts, which they did with a success which sur

prised no one more than themselves.
    " The fact
                   is,

                                         '
                                                   ;

                                                             '
                      that Charles Kingsley was born                                                   fighting man, and
                                                                          a
                                                                                               a
believed in bold attack.  No human power ever beat back resolute

forlorn hope,' he used to say to be got rid of, they must be blown

back with grape and canister, because the attacking party have all the

universe behind them, the defence only that small part which shut up
                                                                                                       a
    their walls.'in                                                                                                '
was needed.                                                                                                           is
                      And he felt most strongly at this time that hard fighting

                      It pity,' he writes to Mr. Ludlow, that telling
                   '
                           it is

                                  a
                                             is
                                                a it,
people what's right won't make them do                               ;it  but not new fact, though

the world has quite forgotten                                   and assures you that dear sweet in-

compris mankind only wants to be told the way to the millennium to
walk willingly into --which
                                                                he.

    " The memorials of his many controversies lie about                                                in  the periodicals

of that time, and any one who cares to hunt them up will be well repaid,

and struck with the vigour of the defence, and still more with the com

plete change in public opinion which has brought the England of to-day

clean round to the side of Parson Lot. The most complete, perhaps,

of his fugitive pieces of this kind, the pamphlet Who are the Friends
           is ? '

                                           '

                              J.

                                                    ' is
                                                          &

                                                                                                    '
of Order published by W. Parker Son, in answer to a very fair

and moderate article in Fraser's Magazine.' The Parson there points

out how he and his friends were cursed by demagogues as aristocrats,

and by tories as democrats, when in reality they were neither,' and

urges that the very fact of the continent being overrun with communist
           the best argument for preaching association here." *
fanatics,

   To those who cannot look back on the political storms of*
1848-49, his three contributions on the subject of Art, on the
pictures in the National Gallery, and on the British Museum will
be more congenial. Being now out of print they will be given
entire. The only poem he sent to " Politics for the People,"
was the following --

                        Preface to "Alton Locke," by T. Hughes. 1876.

1 68 Charles Kingsley.

                         "OLD AND NEW: A PARABLE.

    " See how the autumn leaves float by, decaying,

    Down the red whirls of yon rain-swollen stream,

    So fleet the works of men, back to their earth again,

    Ancient and holy things fade like a dream.

    Nay ! see the spring blossoms steal forth a-maying,

    Clothing with tender hues orchard and glen ;

    So, though old forms go            by, ne'er can their spirit  die,   !  "
       Look ! England's bare           boughs show green leaf      again

                            No. I. NATIONAL GALLERY.
   " Picture-galleries should be the workman's paradise, a garden of

pleasure, to which he goes to refresh his eyes and heart with beautiful
shapes and sweet colouring, when they are wearied with dull bricks and
mortar, and the ugly colourless things which fill the workshop and the
factory. For, believe me, there is many a road into our hearts besides
our ears and brains; many a sight, and sound, and scent, even, of which we
have never thought at all, sinks into our memory, and helps to shape our
characters; and thus children brought up among beautiful sights and

sweet sounds will most likely show the fruits of their nursing, by thought-
fulness, and affection, and nobleness of mind, even by the expression
of the countenance. The poet Wordsworth, talking of training up a
beautiful country girl, says :--

                               ' The floating clouds their state shall lend
                              To her -- for her the willow bend ;
                              Nor shall she fail to see,
                              Even in the motions of the storm,
                              Grac e which shall mould the maiden' s form,

                           fly silent sympathy.

                         And she shall bend her ear

                         In many a secret place

                         Where rivulets dance their wayward round,

                         And beauty, born of murmuring sound,
                         Shall pass into her face.'

    " Those who live in towns should carefully remember this, for their

own sakes, for their wives' sakes, for their children's sakes. Nrcer lose

an   opportunity   of seeing  anything beautiful.       Beauty     is God's handwriting
    a wayside                   welcome it in        every fair     face, every fair sky,
--                sacrament;

every fair flower, and thank for it Him, the fountain of all loveliness,

and drink it in, simply and earnestly, with all your eyes ; it is a charmed

dra"ugThhte, reafocruep  of blessing.  picture-galleries  should be the townsman's

                         I said that

                         Beautiful Pictures.                                                                 169

paradise of refreshment. Of course, if he can get the real air, the real

trees, even for an hour, let him take in God's name but how many
                                     a it,
                                                          in

                                                                                    ;
a man who cannot spare time for daily country walk, may well slip

into the National Gallery, or any other collection of pictures, for ten

minutes. That garden, at least, flowers as gaily winter as in summer.

Those noble faces on the wall are never disfigured by grief or passion.

There, in the space of single room, the townsman may take his
country walk-- walk beneath mountain peaks, blushing sunsets, with
      a
                         a

broad woodlands spreading out below        ;it      walk through green meadows,
                                                 a

under cool mellow shades, and overhanging rocks, by rushing brooks,

where he watches and watches till he seems to hear the foam whisper,

and to see the fishes leap and his hard-worn heart wanders out free,
                         ;
                                        !

                                              it,
                                                       it,
beyond the grim city-world of stone and iron, smoky chimneys, and
roaring wheels, into the world of beautiful things --the world which shall
be hereafter -- ay, which shall be Believe
                                                            toil-worn worker, in spite

of thy foul alley, thy crowded lodging, thy grimed clothing, thy ill-fed
children, thy thin, pale wife -- believe
                                           thou too, and thine, will some

day have your share of beauty. God made you love beautiful things

only because He intends hereafter to give you your fill of them. That

pictured face on the wall lovely, but lovelier still may the wife of thy
                      ;
bosom be when she meets thee on the resurrection morn Those babyis
cherubs in the old Italian painting--how gracefully they flutter and
                                                                                       !

                                                                                             is

                                                                                                          !
sport among the soft clouds, full of rich young life and baby joy Yes,

beautiful, indeed, but just such one at this very moment that once
                                  ?a
pining, deformed child of thine, over whose death-cradle thou wast
                                    It ; I
weeping a month ago now a child-angel, whom thou shalt meet again
                                              is
never to part Those landscapes, too, painted by loving, wise oldit !
      a! !                                                 is
Claude, two hundred years ago, are still as fresh as ever. How still the
                                                                              ;
meadows are how pure and free that vault of deep blue sky No
                                                                                           '
                                                                                                       !

                                                                                                    I
wonder that thy worn heart, as thou lookest, sighs aloud, Oh that

had wings as dove, then would flee away and be at rest.' Ay, but'
gayer meadows and bluer skies await thee in the world to come-- that
fairy-land made real -- the new heavens and the new earth,' which

God has prepared for the pure and the loving, the just and the brave,

who   have conquered   in this sore fight  of life                             to spring upin                man's
      These thoughts  may seem all too                                                        a in
   "                                       far-fetched
                                                                                               Ia
head from merely looking at pictures but                    not so in practice. See,

now, such thoughts have sprung up in my head how else did write

them down here And why should not they, and better ones, too,
            ?
                         a
spring up in your heads, friends           delightful to watch                               picture-

gallery some street-boy enjoying himself; how first wonder creeps over

his rough face, and then sweeter, more earnest, awe-struck look, till his

170 Charles Kings ley.

countenance seems to grow handsomer and nobler on the spot, and
drink in and reflect unknowingly, the beauty of the picture he is study
ing. See how some labourer's face will light up before the painting
which tells him a noble story of bye-gone days. And why ? Because
he feels as if he himself had a share in the story at which he looks.
They may be noble and glorious men who are painted there ; but they
are still men of like passions with himself, and his man's heart under
stands them and glories in them ; and he begins, and rightly, to respect
himself the more when he finds that he, too, has a fellow feeling with
noble men and noble deeds.

  I" say, pictures raise blessed thoughts in me -- why not in you, my

brothers ? Your hearts are fresh, thoughtful, kindly ; you only want to
have these pictures explained to you, that you may know why and how
they are beautiful, and what feelings they ought to stir in your minds ;

Iand therefore wish, with your good will, to explain, one by one, in

future numbers, some of the best pictures in the National Gallery, and

the statues in the British Museum. I shall begin by a portrait or two ;

they are simpler than large pictures, and they speak of real men and
women who once lived on this earth of ours -- generally of remarkable
and noble men -- and man should be always interesting to man. And
as these papers go on, if any one of you, in any part of England, will
be so kind as to mention well-known statues and pictures of any sort
which you wish explained, I, Parson Lot, shall be most happy to tell
you as much about them as God shall give me wits to find out.

                                                                           " PARSON LOT."

NATIONAL GALLERY. No. IL

" Any one who goes to the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square, and

passes right through into the furthest room of all, cannot help seeing in
the left-hand corner two large and beautiful pictures -- the nearer of the

two labelled 'Titian,' representing Bacchus leaping from a car drawn by
leopards. The other, labelled ' Francia,' representing the Holy Family
seated on a sort of throne, with several figures arranged below -- one of

them a man pierced with arrows. Between these two, low down, hangs
a small picture, about two feet square, containing only the portrait of

an old man, in a white cap and robe, and labelled on the picture itself,

' Joannes Bellinus.' Now this old man is a very ancient friend of mine,
and has comforted my heart, and preached me a sharp sermon, too,

many a time. I never enter that Gallery without having five minutes'

converse with him ; and yet he has been dead at least three hundred
I I Iyears, and, what is more, don't even know his name.
                          believe

                                                            Giovanni Bellini.                         171

Imight have found out if I had taken the trouble to ask --but how much

should have been the wiser ? What more do I know of a man by

knowing his name ? It amuses me much, in the world, when one
asks, 'Who is that man?' to be answered, 'Oh! don't you know? --

that's Mr. Brown, who married Mrs. Smith's daughter ;' and so on.

Bah ! Whether the man's name be Brown, or whether he has as many

names and titles as a Spanish grandee, what does that tell me about the

man t--the spirit and character of the man -- what the man will say
when he is asked --what the man will do when he is stirred up to

action ? The man's name is part of his clothes ; his shell ; his husk.
Change his name and all his titles, you don't change him -- ' A man 's a

man  for a' that,' as  Burns says ; and a goose a goose.                             Other   men gave
him  his name ; but    his heart and his spirit -- his love                        and his
                                                                                             hatred --
his wisdom and his folly -- his power to do well and ill ; those God
Iand himself gave him.                                      must know those, and then I know the

man.

   " Let us see what we can make out from the picture itself about the

man whom it represents. In the first place, we may see by his dress
that he was in his day the Doge (or chief magistrate) of Venice -- the
island city, the queen of the seas. So we may guess that he had many

a stirring time of and many a delicate game to play among those
                       it,

                                                                                                                                                            ;
tyrannous and covetous old merchant-princes who had elected him
who were keeping up their own power at the expense of everyone's

liberty, by spies and nameless accusers, and secret councils,' tortures,

and prisons, whose horrors no one ever returned to describe. Nay, we
may guess just the very men with whom he had to deal -- the very

battles he may have seen fought, for the painter's name on the picture

shows when     he lived.  circumstances                     -- things  which   stand  round  the      man
              these are
   " But all
(as the word means), and not the old man himself-- not the character
and heart of the man that we must get from the portrait and the
it                                                                     it.     If
portraitis    truly noble portrait we shall get                                 it
                                                                                      is
               is                                                                        a
                  a
                           ;                                                                         ;

                          if                                                                        if
                                                         :
                                                                                                                                  :

                                                                                                       if
                                                                                      merely vulgar

or naturalist picture, like most that are painted now-a-days, we shall

get the man's dress and shape of his face, but little or no expression
      &patlietic portrait, or picture of passion, we shall get one particular

temporary expression of his face -- perhaps joy, sorrow, anger, disgust --

but still one which may have passed any moment, and left his face
quite different but the full expression of the man's picture of the
noblest kind, an ideal or high art picture, we shall get the whole spirit --
                                                            ;

                                                                 ;

                                                                                                  is
we shall read his whole character there just all his strength and

weakness, his kindliness or his sternness, his thoughtfulness or his care
lessness, written there once and for ever -- what he would be, though

I72 Charles Kingsley.

all the world passed away ; what his immortal and eternal soul will be,

unless God or     the devil changed his heart,       to all                eternity.  step,  by  many
   " This is a    deep matter. We shall get          at it                 step by

examples. Let us see, now, whether this is an ideal portrait ; in short,

if it gives us a full idea of a complete character, so that we should
know him if anyone talked to us of his character, even without telling

us his likeness.
   " We may see at once that he has been very handsome ; but it is a
peculiar sort of beauty. How delicate and graceful all the lines in his

face are !-- he is a gentleman of God's own making, and not of the

tailor's making. He is such a gentleman as I have seen among working-

men and nine-shilling-a-week labourers, often and often ; his nobleness
is in his heart-- it is God's gift, therefore it shows in his noble-looking

face. No matter whether he were poor or rich ; all the rags in the
world, all the finery in the world, could not have made him look like a

snob or a swell. He was a thoughtful man, too ; no one with such a
forehead could have been a trifler : a kindly man, too, and honest -- one

that may have played merrily enough with his grandchildren, and put
his hand in his purse for many a widow and orphan. Look what a

bright, clear, straightforward, gentle look he has, almost a smile ; but he
has gone through too many sad hours to smile much : he is a man of

many sorrows, like all true and noble rulers ; and, like a high mountain

side, his face bears the furrows of many storms. He has had a sterri
life of what with tyrant noblemen, and wayward snobs, and the cares
of great nation on his shoulders. He has seen that in this world thereit,
is            in
    ano rest for those who live like true men you may see                                    by the
                                                     by

                                                                      :

                                                                    is
                                                                           a

                                                                                         it

                                                                                                                          ;;

                                                                                                   it

                                                                                                                           ;
wrinkles his brow, and the sharp-cut furrows in his cheeks, and those

firm-set, determined lips. His eyes almost show the marks of many
noble tears, -- tears such as good men shed over their nation's sins but

that, too, past now. He has found out his path, and he will keepis

and he has no misgiving now about what God would have him do, or

about the reward which God has laid up for the brave and just and

that what makes his forehead so clear and bright, while his very teethis

are clenched with calm determination. And by the look of those high

cheek bones, and that large square jaw, he                                 strong-willed man

enough, and not one to be easily turned aside from his purpose by any

man alive, or by any woman either, or                his own passions and tempers.

One fault of character,                             think, he may perhaps  have had much trouble
with -- mean bitterness                            and contemptuousness.
       I                                                                    His lips are very thin;
                             I

                                                  ;
he may have sneered many a time, when he was younger, at the follies

of the world-- which that great, lofty, thoughtful brain and clear eye of

his told him were follies but he seems to have got past that too.

                                       Venice.                           1 73

Such is the man's character: a noble, simple, commanding old man,
who has conquered many hard things, and, hardest of all, has conquered

himself, and now is waiting calm for his everlasting rest. God send us

all "thNeoswamceo.nsider the deep insight of old John Bellini, who could see

all this, and put it down there for us with pencil and paint ; better far,

more livingly and speakingly, than I could describe it to you in a dozen

letters.                                  a
                                                                  it,
   " No doubt there was something in old John's own character which
;                                      a                                 is I
made him especially able to paint such a man ; for, as I have read, he?
             a                                                                      is
was much such a man himself, and we always understand those best;
who are most like ourselves ; and therefore you may tell pretty nearly a
                                       ;
painter's own character by seeing what sort of subjects he paints, and
what his style of painting is. And a noble, simple, brave, godly man was

old John Bellini, and never lost his head, though princes were flattering
him and snobs following him with shouts and blessings for his noble
pictures of the Venetian victories, as if he had been a man sent from
God Himself ; as indeed he was, as all great painters are ; for who but
God makes beauty ? Who gives the loving heart, and the clear eye,

and the graceful taste to see beauty and to copy and to set forth on
canvas, or in stone, the noble deeds of patriots dying for their country?

To paint truly patriotic pictures well, man must have his heart in his
work --he must be true patriot himself, as John Bellini was (if mis
take not, he had fought for his country himself in more than one shrewd

fight). And what makes men patriots, or artists, or anything noble at
all, but the spirit of the living God Those great pictures of Bellini's

are no more they were burnt few years afterwards, with the magni

ficent national hall in which they hung but the spirit of them not

passed away. Even now, Venice, Bellini's beloved mother-land,
rising, new-born, from long weary years of Austrian slavery, and trying
to be free and great once more and young Italian hearts are lighting
up with the thoughts of her old fleets and her old victories, her mer
chants and her statesmen, whom John Bellini drew. Venice sinned,
and fell and sorely has she paid for her sins, through two hundred
years of shame, and profligacy, and slavery. And she has broken the
oppressor's yoke, by strange and unexpected chance. The fall of
Louis Philippe has proved the salvation of Venice, God send her new
life May she learn by her ancient sins May she learn by her ancient
!                                                   I!                   a
        !                                                                         ?

         ;
                                    a
glo"rieYsou will forgive
                          me for       forgetting my           piscatuidreabtoouttaltkheofolsducphortthrianigt s--
But we must return.         Look       back at what

the clear, calm, victorious character of the old man's face, and see how

174 Charles Kingsley.

all the rest of the picture agrees with in complete harmony, as all
        in
           a

                                                        '
                                                                        '

                                                              it,
                                                                      a
things  first-rate picture should. The dress, the scenery, the light

and shade, the general tone of colour should all agree with the
character of the face -- all help to bring our minds into that state in

which we may best feel and sympathise with the human beings painted.

Now here, because the face calm and grand, the colour and the out
                                    ' is

                                              '
                                                                 ;
lines are quiet and grand likewise. How different these colours are

from that glorious Holy Family of Francia's, next to on the right
!                                                                          is
                                 '
                                                                                  '

                                                                                      it
                                                                                               ; is

                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                    ;
or from that equally glorious Bacchus and Ariadne of Titian's, on the

left Yet all three are right, each for its own subject. Here you have

no brilliant reds, no rich warm browns no luscious greens. The

white robe and cap give us the thought of purity and simplicity the

very golden embroidery on them, which marks his rank,                                                 carefully

kept back from being too gaudy. Everything sober here and the
lines of the dress, how simple they all are -- no rich curves, no fluttering

drapery. They would be quite stiff                  were not for that waving line
                                    ;

                                           if

                                                it
of round tassels in front, which break the extreme straightness and

heaviness of the splendid robe and all pointing upwards towards that

solemn, thin, calm face, with its high white cap, rising like the peak of
                                                                           is
snow mountain against the dark,                                                        it
                                                                                                      is

                                                                                                                a
" That                  grand thought of  deep, boundless                  blue sky beyond.
        ;                                                                  do not see the man's
                                          Bellini's You
               is                   is
                     a
                                                                     !
hands he does not want them now, his work done. You see no
landscape behind -- no buildings. All earth's ways and sights are
                                    nothing but the old man and the sky --
nothing to him now; there

nothing between him and the heaven now, and he knows and glad.

A few months more, and those way-worn features shall have crumbled

to their dust, and that strong, meek spirit shall be in the abyss of

eternity, before the God from whence came.
   " So says John Bellini, with art more cunning than words.
                                          it

                                                                                   if
                                                                                                          And

this paper shall make one of you look at that little picture with fresh

interest, and raise one strong and solemn longing in you to die the

death of the righteous, and let your last end be like his who painted
there -- then shall rejoice in the only payment expect, or desire to
        I                                                                  I
                                                                                                      is

get, for this my afternoon's writing.                                      " PARSON LOT."

                                    No. IIL BRITISH MUSEUM.

" My friend, Will Willow-Wren,            bringing before our readers the
        !
                   '

                         I

                                                        ; is
                                                                             it,

                                                                                                  is
beauty and meaning of the living natural world -- the great Green-book

which holds the open secret,' as Goethe calls                              seen by all, but read

by, alas how few. And feel as much as he, that nature                                                 infinitely

more wonderful than the highest art and in the commonest hedgeside

       The British Museum.                                                                                     175

leaf lies a mystery and beauty greater than that of the greatest picture,
the noblest statue --as infinitely greater as God's work is infinitely

greater than man's. But to those who have no leisure to study nature

in the green fields (and there are now-a-days too many such, though

Ithe time may come when all will have that blessing), to such say, go

to the British Museum ; there at least, if you cannot go to nature's

wonders, some of nature's wonders are brought to you.
   " The British Museum is my glory and joy ; because it is almost the

only place which is free to English citizens as such -- where the poor

and the rich may meet together, and before those works of God's spirit,
' who is no respecter of persons,' feel that ' the Lord is the maker of

them all.' In the British Museum and the National Gallery alone the

Englishman may say, ' Whatever my coat or my purse, I am an English
Iman, and therefore have a right here. I can glory in these noble
halls, as if they were my own house.'

   " English commerce, the joint enterprise and industry of the poor

sailor as well as the rich merchant, brought home these treasures from
foreign lands, and those glorious statues -- though it was the wealth

and taste of English noblemen and gentlemen (who in that proved
themselves truly noble and gentle) which placed them here, yet it was
the genius of English artists --men at once above and below all ranks --

men who have worked their way up, not by money or birth, but by

worth and genius, which taught the noble and wealthy the value of

those antiques, and which proclaimed their beauty to the world. The

British Museum is a truly equalizing place, in the deepest and most

spiritual sense ; therefore I love it.
   " And it gives the lie, too, to that common slander, ' that the English

are not worthy of free admission to valuable and curious collections,

because they have such a trick of seeing with their fingers ; such a trick

of scribbling their names, of defiling and disfiguring works of art. On

the Continent it may do, but you cannot trust the English.'
   " This has been, like many other untruths, so often repeated, that

I Ipeople now take it for granted ; but believe that it is utterly ground

less, and say so on the experience of the British Museum and the

National Gallery. In the only two cases, I believe, in which injury

has been done to anything in either place, the destroyers were neither

artizans, nor even poor reckless heathen street-boys, but persons who

had received what is too often miscalled ' a liberal education.' The

       that where people pay their money (as they do in some great
truth  is,
                                                             in

                                                                                                            ;
houses) for the empty pleasure of staring at luxuries which they cannot

enjoy, vulgar curiosity too often ends jealous spite and where people

consider themselves unjustly excluded from works of art, which ought,

x 76 Charles Kingsley.

as far as is possible, to be made as free as the common air, mean minds

will sometimes avenge their fancied wrongs by doing wrong themselves.

But national property will always be respected, because all will be content,

while they feel that they have their rights, and all will be careful while

the"y   feel that they have a  share  in the treasure.      so much  as  from
       Would that the rich,     who,  not from selfishness

thoughtlessness, lock up the splendid collections from the eyes of all

but a favoured few, would go to the British Museum in Easter week !
Would that the Deans and Chapters, who persist (in spite of the strug
gles of many of their own body) in making penny-peep-shows of God's
houses, built by public piety and benevolence -- of St. Paul's and West

minster Abbey, which belong not to them at all, but to God and the

people of England, would go to the British Museum in Easter week
and see there hundreds of thousands, of every rank and age, wandering
past sculptures and paintings, which would be ruined by a blow-- past
jewels and curiosities, any one of which would buy many a poor soul

there a month's food and lodging--only protected by a pane of glass,
if by that ; and then see not a thing disfigured -- much less stolen.

Everywhere order, care, attention, honest pride in their country's wealth

and science ; earnest reverence for the mighty works of God, and of the

God-inspired. I say, the people of England prove themselves worthy

of free admission to all works of art, and it is therefore the duty of

those who can to help them to that free admission.

   " What a noble, and righteous, and truly brotherly plan it would be,
if all classes would join to form a free National Gallery of Art and

Science, which might combine the advantages of the present Polytechnic,

Society of Arts, and British Institution, gratis. Manufacturers and men
of science might send thither specimens of their new inventions. The
rich might send, for a few months in the year -- as they do now to the
British Institution -- ancient and modern pictures, and not only pictures,
but all sorts of curious works of art and nature, which are now hidden in

their drawing-rooms and libraries. There might be free liberty to copy
any object, on the copyist's name and residence being registered. And

surely artists and men of science might be found, with enough of the

spirit of patriotism and love, to explain gratuitously to all comers, what
Iever their rank or class, the wonders of the Museum.
                                                            really believe
that if once the spirit of brotherhood got abroad among us ; if men once

saw that here was a vast means of educating, and softening and uniting

those who have no leisure for study, and few means of enjoyment,

except the gin-shop and Cremorne Gardens ; if they could but once

feel that here was a project, equally blessed for rich and poor, the

money for it would be at once forthcoming from many a rich man, who

                  Beauty and Sympathy.                                177

is longing to do good, if he could only be shown the way ; and from

many a poor journeyman, who would gladly contribute his mite to a

truly national museum, founded on the principles of spiritual liberty,

equality, and fraternity. All that is wanted is the spirit of self-sacrifice,

Ipatriotism and brotherly love --which God alone can give -- which

believe He is giving

  I I" never felt this
                  more   and more in these very   days.   ago, as     was
                   more   strongly than some six  months

looking in at the windows of a splendid curiosity-shop in Oxford Street,
                             I was gloating over the beauty of those
at a case of humming-birds.

feathered-jewels, and then wondering what was the meaning, what was

the use of it all ?-- why those exquisite little creatures should have been

hidden for ages, in all their splendours of ruby and emerald and gold,

in the South American forests, breeding and fluttering and dying, that

some dozen out of all those millions might be brought over here to

Iastonish the eyes of men. And as asked myself, why were all these

boundless varieties, these treasures of unseen beauty, created ? my brain

grew dizzy between pleasure and thought; and, as always happens

Iwhen one is most innocently delighted, ' turned to share the joy,' as

Wordsworth says ; and next to me stood a huge, brawny coal-heaver,

in his shovel hat, and white stockings and high-lows, gazing at the

I Ihumming-birds as earnestly as myself. As turned he turned, and

saw a bright manly face, with a broad, soot-grimed forehead, from under

which a pair of keen flashing eyes gleamed wondering, smiling sympathy

into mine. In that moment we felt ourselves friends. If we had been
Frenchmen, we should, I suppose, have rushed into each other's arms

and ' fraternised ' upon the spot. As we were a pair of dumb, awkward

Englishmen, we only gazed a half-minute, staring into each other's eyes,
with a delightful feeling of understanding each other, and then burst
out both at once with--' Isn't that beautiful ? ' ' Well, that is ! ' And

thenboth turned   back again, to stare at our humming-birds.          thank
      never felt  more thoroughly than at that minute (though,
  I"
IGod, had often felt it before) that all men were brothers ; that frater
nity and equality were not mere political doctrines, but blessed God-

ordained facts ; that the party-walls of rank and fashion and money

were but a paper prison of our own making, which we might break

through any moment by a single hearty and kindly feeling ; that the
one spirit of God was given without respect of persons ; that the beau

tiful things were beautiful alike to the coal-heaver and the parson ; and
that before the wondrous works of God and of God's inspired genius,

the rich and the poor might meet together, and feel that whatever the

coat or the creed may be, ' A man's a man for a' that,' and one Lord

the maker of them all.

vol. r.                                                            N

178 diaries Kingsley.

   " For believe me, my friends, rich and poor-- and I beseech you to

think deeply over this great truth -- that men will never be joined in
true brotherhood by mere plans to give them a self-interest in common,
as the Socialists have tried to do. No : to feel for each other, they
must first feel with each other. To have their sympathies in common,
they must have not one object of gain, but an object of admiration in
common ; to know that they are brothers, they must feel that they have
one Father ; and a way to feel that they have one common Father, is to
see each other wondering, side by side, at His glorious works !

                                                                    "Parson Lot."

He had a sore battle to go through at this time with his own

heart, and with those friends and relations, religious and worldly,

who each and all from their own particular standpoint depre
cated the line he took, and urged him to withdraw from this
sympathy with the people, which was likely to spoil his pro
spects in life. In reference to this he writes to his wife : --

"... I will not be a liar. I will speak in season and out of season.
I Iwill not shun to declare the whole counsel of God.
                                                                           will not take

counsel with flesh and blood, and flatter myself into the dream that

while every man on earth, from Maurice back to Abel, who ever tried

to testify against the world, has been laughed at, misunderstood, slan

dered, and that, bitterest of all, by the very people he loved best, and

I Iunderstood best, alone am to escape. My path is clear, and will

follow in             He who died for me, and who gave me you, shall not
        .                                                                  \" I

                 it.
                  ."
trust Him through whatsoever new and strange paths He may lead

me?     ..

        " Many thanks for your kind letter," he writes to Mr. Ludlow,

who had announced to him his rejection at King's College, which

gave me the first intimation of my defeat. Not an unwelcome one

for me, for felt more and more that have more work already
      II                                                        I
             II I                                                  I

                                                       '                I
than know where to stow, and was in daily danger of neglecting
the duty which lies nearest me--my parish. The Council's conduct

has not been over civil to Maurice                        sword,  But all hope is," he  adds,
                                                                   and throw away the   scab
" that we shall be bold -- draw the

bard.'     think have counted the cost, and have more to lose in

many ways than any one of us almost. And therefore, lest should
                                                                           I

turn coward, want to put myself whence there will be no retreat.

That myth of old, Von Trong Hagen, dashing the boat in pieces by

which the Nibelungen crossed the Danube, great and true. Let
                                                                  is

                            Work for the Periodical.                                   1 79

the unreturning ferry-boat perish. Let us forward. God leads us,

though blind. Shall we be afraid to follow ? I do not see my way ;
I II do not care to ; but know that He sees His way, and that see
IHim, and cannot believe that in spite of all one's sins He will forget

His gracious promises. ' They had an eye unto Him and were light

ene"dN;o,thLeuydlothwat--puout t,thoeuirt  trust in Him shall not be ashamed.'         Let
                                           on the wide weltering ocean of thought.

us be sure that He will never leave us nor forsake us, however sorely

battered, however cowardly we may long to turn, till we have showed

His strength unto this generation, and His power to all those who are

yet" foWrhtaot    come.     are--no        better  than  I  am !  His strength shall be

                   if we

made perfect in our weakness, and He will have all the glory to Him
... Isel"f--AansdHneowoutgoht.business.
                                           * * * * * * is doing what he can to get

a notice of the Politics into the Times.                           want to have some

more Whitford Priory tales out, viz., No. 1. A young poet from the

working classes, bringing in Shakespeare, Ben Jonson, Good Queen

Bess (a great favourite of mine), the extravagance, and at the same
time the high intellectual tone of her Court, &c.

   " 2. A good jolly Cavalier and Roundhead story, and storming of the
Priory by our fathers. 3. A Roger de Coverley story, showing the low
ebb of town life, &c. 4. A story about the Methodists, and the fury of
the Squire Westerns and Parson Trullibers against them. 5. A French

war and high-prices story, old Poor-law, &c. 6. What is the matter

with the parish ? an expose' of things as they are. 7. How to mend the

Ipar"ish,   continued.      up  a Game-law         ballad or two,  and  will work the  end
           will bring you

of the week at a National Gallery Article, and a Letter to the Chartists.
                   I
At "prPersaeyn,t       am   grinding for Queen's   College.        tone we can  influence
                  let   us  try and see what sort  of a definite

people towards taking at our meetings. We must be more definite and

practical ; we must let the people see more what we do hold. We

must thus gain their sympathy, before we begin scolding. . . ."

                                       TO THE SAME.

                                                                              Eversley, July, 1848.

  I" should have answered yesterday your noble and kind letter,

had not my afternoon been employed in forcing a cruel, lazy farmer
to shoot a miserable horse which was rotting alive in front of my
house, and superintending its death by aid of one of my own bullets.

180 Charles Kingsley.

                                                                          a               even in a dumb
                                                                                     is,
What an awful wonderful thing a violent death

beast      would not have lost the sight for great deal. But now to
       !

         I

                                 a
                                      a
business. You take strange way to frighten a man off from novel-

writing, by telling                    man that he may become the greatest novelist of
Ifthe age.
               your good opinion of me was true, should have less
                                                                          I

fear for myself, for a man could not become that in this wonderful era,

without having ideas and longings which would force him to become

something far better than novelist but for myself, chaotic, piecemeal,
                                       '

                                          Ia
                                                  I

                                                                    ;

                                                                      is
passionate, lachemar as am, have fears as great as your own.
           I'                                                                                                  '
know the miserable, peevish, lazy, conceited, faithless, prayerless wretch
                                                                                                                  I
I  am, but know this, too, that One guiding me, and driving me                                                        is I i

when will not be guided, who will make me, and has made me, go
       I

His way and do His work, by fair means or by foul. He set me on'
writing this novel.' He has taught me things about the heart of fast

sporting men, and about the condition of the poor, and our duty to

them, which have no doubt He has taught many more, but He has
           I
not set anyone else to speak about them in the way in which am
                a
speaking.      He has given me              Ia  certain artistic knack of utterance

(nothing but knack), but He has done more. He has made the

Word of the Lord like fire within my bones,' giving me no peace
'                                        know may seem presumptuous -- to myself

  I
     I
till have spoken out.
                     I
                         I
most of all, because know best the liar to my own idea which
                                                '

                                                    I
am. know that He has made me a parish priest, and that that

the duty which lies nearest me, and that may seem to be leaving
my calling in novel-writing, But has He not taught me all these very
things by my parish-priest life Did He, too, let me become a strong,
                                         ?

daring, sporting wild man-of-the-woods for nothing? Surely the edu

cation which He has given me, so different from that which authors

generally receive, points out to me peculiar calling to preach on these
                                         '

                                                         a
                                                          it

                                                                                                            '
points, from my own experience, as did to good old Isaac Walton,

as has done in our day to that truly noble man, Captain Marryat.
it,
ThereforeitI   must believe Se tu segui la tua stella with Dante, that

He who ordained my star will not lead me into temptation, but through
   as Maurice says. Without Him all places and methods of life are

equally dangerous -- with Him, all equally safe. Pray for me, for in

myself am weaker of purpose than                                          lost greyhound, lazier than
       II            I                                                                                         is
dog in rainy weather.                                                                                                      a
                          ?

                          I
                                                         a

                                            I
   But feel intensely the weight of your advice to write no more

novels. Why should                       have no more to say. When this                                        done

I must set to and read. The symbolism of nature and the meaning of
history must be my studies. Believe me long for that day -- The

pangs of intellectual labour, the burden of spiritual pregnancy, are not

                           Idols of Iron.                                            181

pleasant things.  A man cannot write in the fear of God without

running against the devil at every step. He cannot sit down to speak

the truth without disturbing in his own soul a hornet swarm of lies.

Your hack-writer of no creed, your bigot Polyphemus, whose one eye

just helps him to see to eat men, they do not understand this; their

pens run on joyful and light of heart. But no more talk about

my"seWlf. ill you tell Parker that I am quite willing to have my name

Ifand anything else he chooses appended to the reprint of the Politics.

    it will free his worthy father in pocket or reputation, it must be

done.

  I" Once more must thank you for your letter. Never had I words

spoken to me before in which warning and encouragement were so

harmoniously blended. It will help me to see my way clearer for many
a month to come. I remembered you in the litany -- not as a perse
Icut"orReaandd
slanderer,        or one   in error  either, as far as                        can see       of
 a poem           written   by an                                             mine, Clough
                                     acquaintance of
Oxford, ' The Bothie of Toper-na-Voirlich,' and tell me if you do not

think it a noble specimen of Pantagruelism, and a hopeful sign for
                                                                              "
' Young Oxford,' of which he is one of the leaders

                           TO THE SAME.
I" Many, many thanks for charming letters, which
                                                                                     have been
too lazy to answer till now ; especially one about the river at night --
Ithat have seen. As a companion, just see the Hungerford Suspension

Bridge in a fog; standing on the steam-boat pier, the further shore

invisible, with two vast lines, the catenary and its tangent line, stretching

away as if self-supported, into infinite space ; a sort of Jacob's Ladder,
one end on earth and one in heaven. It makes one feel very small :

so for that matter, do the lines of rail in looking along a vast sweep of

railway. There is an awful waiting look about them : a silent forbidden

desert to all the world, except the one moment when their demon

bridegrooms shall rush roaring over them on the path which none but
they must go. Does this seem real ? It is because the thought is so
Iunspeakable.
                  wonder whether, in the future ages, men will ever fall

down and worship steam-engines, as the Caribs did Columbus's ships.

Why not ? Men have worshipped stone men and women ; why not

line

  If"
iron ?   Fancy it !                  and  more, and                           more.  you do,
F. and
        I like the ' Bothie ' more

do write a little review of and get into the People's Journal,' or
                           it,
                                           it

                                                                           '

some of those places. It may help to bridge  the "gap between ranks --

the work which we all have to do just now

1 82 Charles Kingsley.

   Having been appointed Professor of English Literature at
Queen's College, Harley Street, he gave his first introductory
lecture on May 13th, and continued lecturing weekly.

   In the summer he made an expedition with Mr. Maurice to
Crowland Abbey, near Peterborough, which deeply impressed
him at the time, and formed one of the strong features in his
story of " Hereward " at a later date. " We spent there a price
less day," he says ; " these days with Maurice have taught me
more than I can tell. Like all great things, he grows upon one
more and more." He wrote several letters to his little daughter
at this time, full of poetry and natural history, of which one is

given.

TO HIS LITTLE GIRL ROSE.

"I" My dear Miss Rose,    Duxford, Cambridge.

am writing in such a curious place. A mill where they

grind corn and bones, and such a funny little room in it full of

stuffed birds. And there is a flamingo, such a funny red bird, with long

legs and a long neck, as big as Miss Rose, and sharks' jaws, and an

Iarmadillo all over great scales, and now will tell you about the stork.

He is called Peter, and here is a picture of him. See what long legs

he has, and a white body and black wings, and he catches all the frogs

and snails, and eats them, and when he is cross, he opens his long bill,

and makes such a horrible clattering like a rattle. And he comes to

the window at tea time, to eat bread and butter, and he is so greedy,

and he gobbled down a great pinch of snuff out of Daddy's box, and he

was so sick, and we all laughed at him, for being so foolish and greedy.

And do you know there are such curious frogs here that people eat, and

there were never any found in England before Mr. Thurnall found them,

and he sent them to the British Museum and the wise men were so

pleased, and sent him leave to go to the British Museum and see all

the wonderful things whenever he liked. And he has got such beau

tiful butterflies in boxes, and whole cupboards full of birds' eggs, and a

river full of beautiful fish, and Daddy went fishing yesterday, and caught

an immense trout, very nearly four pounds weight, and he raged and

ran about in the river so long, and Daddy was quite tired before he

could get him out. And to-day Daddy is going back to Cambridge

to get a letter from his dear home. And do you know when Mr.

Thurnall saw me drawing the stork, he gave me a real live stork of my

own to bring home to Miss Rose, and we will put him in the kitchen

                         Thomas Cooper.              183

garden to run about --what fun ! And to-morrow Daddy is going to

see the beautiful pictures at the Fitzwilliam Museum, and the next day

he is going to fish at Shelford, and the next day, perhaps, he is coming

home to his darlings at Eversley Rectory, for he does not know what

to do without them       How happy Miss Rose must be with her

dear mother. She must say, ' thank God for giving me such a darling

mother ! '

  " Kiss her for me and Maurice, and now good-bye, and I will bring

you home the stork.                                  " Your own Daddy."

   His acquaintance with Mr. Thomas Cooper, Chartist, was made
this year, and out of it grew a long correspondence, of which
this is the first letter. The rest will come at a later period.

                                                                         Eversley, June 19, 1848.

  I" Ever since read your brilliant poem, ' The Purgatory of Suicides,'
Iand its most affecting preface, have been possessed by a desire to
Ithrust myself, at all risks, into your acquaintance. The risk which

Ifelt keenly, was the fear that you might distrust me, as a clergyman ;

having, am afraid, no great reason to love that body of men. Still,

I thought, the poetic spirit ought to be a bond of communion between

us. Shall God make us brother-poets, as well as brother men, and we
Irefuse to fraternise ?
                         thought also that you, if you have a poet's

heart, as well as the poet's brain which you have manifested, ought to

be more able than other men to appreciate and sympathise with my
feelings towards ' the working classes.'

  " You can understand Iwhy held back-- from shame --a false shame,

perhaps, lest you should fancy me a hypocrite. But my mind was made

Iup, when found an attack in the ' Commonwealth,' on certain papers
Iwhich had published in the ' Politics of the People,' under the name
of Parson Lot. Now I had hailed with cordial pleasure the appearance
of the ' Commonwealth,' and sympathised thoroughly with it-- and here
Iwas this very ' Commonwealth ' attacking me on some of the very
points on which most agreed with                     It seemed to me intolerable to
                         It

                                                it.
be so misunderstood.     had been long intolerable to me, to be

regarded as an object of distrust and aversion by thousands of my

countrymen, my equals in privilege, and too often, alas far my
                                                     !
superiors in worth, just because was clergyman, the very office
if                                                          I

                  II
                                                  a
which ought to have testified above all others, for liberty, equality,

brotherhood, for time and eternity.                  felt myself bound, then, to write

to you, to see among the nobler spirits of the working classes

184 Charles Kingsley,

could not make one friend who would understand me. My ancestors

fought in Cromwell's army, and left all for the sake of God and liberty,
among the pilgrim fathers, and here were men accusing me of ' mediaeval

tyranny.' I would shed the last drop of my life blood for the social

and political emancipation of the people of England, as God is my
Iwitness ; and here are the very men for whom would die, fancying
I Ime an ' aristocrat.' It is not enough for me that they are mistaken in
me.       want to work with them.        want to realise my brotherhood

with them. I want some one like yourself, intimately acquainted with

the mind of the working classes, to give me such an insight into their

life and thoughts, as may enable me to consecrate my powers effectually

to their service. For them I have lived for several years. I come to

If Iyou to ask you if you                     more    completely for them.
     you distrust and                         shall
          can tell me how to live                     not be astonished --
          reject my overtures,
pained I shall be-- and you must know as well as I, that there is no

bitterer pain than to be called a rogue because you are honester than

your neighbours, and a time-server, because you have intellect enough

to  see   both sides of a question.
          you will allow me to call
    " If                             on  you  at any  hour  next  Wednesday  or

IThursday, which may suit you, you will very much oblige me.

   " send you my poem as something of a ' sample.' At first sight it
Imay seem to hanker after feudalism and the middle age.
                                                                  trust to

you to see a deeper and somewhat more democratic moral in it."

   In the autumn he quite broke down, while writing " Yeast,"
as a series of papers in " Fraser's Magazine." He had not re

covered the excitement of the Chartist movement, and having

at that   time no curate,     every hour      was occupied with sermon
writing,  cottage visiting,  and he was       forced to write " Yeast " at

night, when the day's work was over, and the house still. This

was too much for brain and nerves, and one Sunday evening,

after his two services had been got through with difficulty, he

fell asleep, slept late into the next day, and woke so exhausted

that his medical man was alarmed at his weakness, ordered

complete rest and change to Bournemouth.                          From thence,

after a month's rest, he returned to Eversley only to sink

again. .

                                              EVERSLEY, October 27, 1848.
  "... I IPlease God shall be home to-morrow (Bournemouth).
                                                                             am
Iquite worn out with going round and seeing every one to-day.                am

trying to recollect and collect everything, but my brains are half addle.

                     The Art of Writing Poetry.                         185

Kiss the darlings for me. What would life be without you ? What

is it with you but a brief pain to make us long for everlasting bliss.
There we shall be together for ever, without a sigh or a cross. -- But
                                 "
how  long  first  !  how  long
                                !

                          TO AN OXFORD FRIEND.

                                               Eversley, December, 1848.

I I" have delayed answering your letter because did not wish to
Ispeak in a hurry on a subject so important to you.
                                                               am afraid that
     I's report of my opinion has pained you-- really it ought not;
spoke only as a friend and in sincerity. I cannot advise you to publish
I Ithe poems of yours which have seen -- at least for some years, and
will give you my reasons. With the IjSos of them I thoroughly agree;
it is in the nddos I see defects, which will not suit the public just now.
IThe time for merely reflective poets is past : do not mean for sub

jective poetry -- that will always be interesting, but only in so far as it
embodies the subjective in objective forms -- in short in so far as it is

Idramatic, do not mean in dialogues and scenes, but in impersonation

and representation. Byron, Moore, Shelley, Keats, Tennyson have

succeeded in subjective poetry, just in so far as they have embodied
spiritual and intellectual truths in images and examples drawn from the

physical and pathetic (I use these words in Aristotle's broad sense)
plunomenon of history, man, and the universe. This the last generation

of poets have done, and the world will be satisfied with nothing less

henceforward. It is a tendency to this which makes the subjectivity of
the ' Ambarvalia ' * tolerable. Indeed a man is a poet just in so far as
he does this --as he sees and represents the unseen in the seen. Now

here you fail. You have not images enough (I don't mean tropes), nor
are those you have original enough. There      '                        stock-
                                                           forgive me,
                                                      is,      '

                                                                    Ia
epithet tone, too often verging towards the post-prandial,' and know

why.                                           '

   " First, you write too easily that same imp facility must not be
                     is it
                                            ;
let to ruin you, as helped to ruin Theodore Hook. You must never

put two words or lines where one will do the age               is    too busy and
                                               ;
                                                       a
hurried to stand it. Again, you want to see great deal more, and
study more -- that
                          the only way to have materials. Poets cannot

create till they have learnt to recombine. The study of man and nature    ;

the study of poets and fiction writers of all schools necessary. And,is

believe me, you can never write like Byron, or anybody else worth

                     " Ambarvalia," by A. H. Clough and R. Burbage.

1 86 Charles Kings ley.

hearing, unless by reading and using poetry of a very different school

from his. The early dramatists, Shakespeare above all ; and not less

the two schools which made Shakespeare ; the Northern ballad litera

Iture ; nay even, find, the Norse myths.. And, on the other hand,

the Romance literature must be known, to acquire that objective power
of embodying thoughts, without which poetry degenerates into the

mere intellectual reflective, and thence into the metrical-prose didactic.
IRead, mark, and learn, and do not write.
                                                                             never wrote five hundred
Ilines in my life before the ' Saint's Tragedy,' but from my childhood

had worked at poetry from Southey's ' Thalaba,' Ariosto, Spenser, and

the 'Old Ballads,' through almost every school. classic and modem,

except the Spanish, and, alas ! a very little German, and that by trans
I Ilations. And have not read half enough.
                                                                                  have been studying all
Iphysical sciences which deal with phenomena ; have been watching
Inature in every mood ; have been poring over sculptures and paint
ings since I was a little boy -- and all I can say
                                                                                  ;         do not know half

enough to be poet in the nineteenth century, and have cut the Muse                  ' is,I
                            a
fro"  tempore.     you               'have  an  infinity  to     learn  about rhythm        and metre, and
                                           ;
      Again,

about the colouring and chiaroscuro of poetry how to break up your

masses, and how to make masses high lights and shadows; major andif ;

minor keys of metre; rich colouring alternating with delicate. All

these things have to be learnt, you wish to avoid monotony, to arrest

the interest, to gain the cardinal secret of giving continual surprise in

exp"ecNtoatwiond,'on'at nbde                 expectation in      surprise.'  you  have  a poetic  faculty in
                                            angry with me.            think
                                                             II
you, from the mere fact of your having been always lusting to get your

thoughts into poetry and because think you have one, therefore                                    I
don't want you to publish, or even write, till you have learnt enough

really to enable you to embody your thoughts. They are good and

vigorous, and profitable for this age but they are as yet too bare-backed
-- y"oLuemt umset                                                ;
                   go clothes-hunting for                    the    poor naked babbies.           in all
                   hear from you again,                       for  I   am very much interested

you do, and your true friend and well wisher."

                                                TO ESQ.
                                                (I .
                                                                                            eversley, 1848.
                                                                  it) ,           attach to the marriage

                                                                   I
" My dear Mr.
         " The extreme importance which

question which we discussed last night, and my great dissatisfaction

with my lame defence of must say the truth on the point, compels

                                          On Marriage.                                     187

        me to inflict a long letter on you, hoping that it may, if not convince,

        at least shake you in your present view -- perhaps, by God's blessing, be

        one stepping stone for you towards that higher and spiritual view of

        marriage, the path to which is very often earnest doubt, like yours, of

        that vulgar and carnal conception of it which is common, in the sense-

        bound world.
           " Man is a sexual animal : sense tells us this, independent of Scrip

        ture, and Scripture confirms it-- ' male and female created he them ; '
        and again, 'be fruitful and multiply' were said of man in Paradise.

        The notion that marriage was not instituted till after the Fall is a private

        gloss, flatly contradicted by Gen. i. 28, and Adam's speech, Gen. 24;
                                              '

                                                            '

                                                                                 iIt. ii.
        and, above all, the use of the word wife before the Fall proves                    must

        protest, in the name of all criticism and logic, against supposing that

        the word wife has an utterly different meaning in the first three chapters

        of Genesis to what                has in the rest of the Bible and in the whole
                         ;
        world to this day, especially when those three chapters describe thea

        institution of wives. Admit such mode of interpretation and Scriptureit
                                              a
                                                               is
        may be made (as among the Romish theologians) to mean anything or
                                              Man not mere animal -- he
        nothing, at the reader's will                              a                       ;
                                                                      is,
        the spirit-animal        spirit manifesting itself in an animal form, as the             is
                                                                             ;
        heathens themselves hold. Now the Law of the universe                         is,  that spirit

        shall rule and matter obey, and this law has two poles 1st, That spirit

        shall control, and matter be controlled 2nd, That spirit shall will, and
                                              :

        matter express that will. For the true ideal of rule where the subject
           not merely restrained by his king, but fulfills the will of his king. In
is
        the earlier ages of Christianity the first pole only was perceived the
       ;gross sensuality of the heathen world shut everything from the eyes of

        the fathers but the fact that was by his fleshly lusts that man enacted
                                          it

        mo"st   of his  sins.             part of Christ's guidance that they did see nothing
                         think,
               It was,I

                                       a

else that their whole energies were directed to preaching the great

message, 'Ye are not beasts, but immortal souls --not the slaves of

flesh and matter, but the lords of your flesh, servants only of God.'

Till this message had been fully believed, no art or chivalry was allowed
to arise in the Church. It was better that man should think marriage,

eating, and drinking, and humanity itself unclean, than make them

unclean by mere animal return to the brutality from which they had
                        a

                                                                   it
                                                                                                                 it
been raised. Thus Christ, in every age of the Church for the sake of

enabling our piecemeal and partial minds to bring out one particular

truth, seems to permit of our pushing            into error, by not binding

with its correlative; e. g., state authority v. ecclesiastical authority,
and Free Will v. Predestination.

1 88 Charles Kingsley.

" In fulness of time God raised up Christian art, chivalry, and

woman worship as witnesses for the other pole, Anti, i. e., that spirit

had nobler relations to flesh and matter, and a nobler duty to fulfil with

regard to         As the flesh was not meant merely to be the slave of the
      it
             it.
spirit, was meant to be its symbol -- its outward expression. In this

day only can we reconcile the contradiction by which both Scripture

and common sense talk of our bodies as at once not us, and yet us.

They are not we, but our earthly tabernacles, in as far as they are

aggregated gas and salts, &c., while we are each of us one and eternal.

They are we, in as far as they are infallibly, in every lineament and

gesture, the expressions of our inward and spiritual state
 In the beginning God created them male and female.' This, when
taken with the context, can only be explained to mean -- woman
'                                                    a
                                                     This binary law ofa
           it
                  is                                                 is
                                                                                is
                                         a
                                                  ;

                                               a
for each man, and man for each woman.

man's being; the want of a complementum, a 'help meet,' without

whom              not good for him to be, and joined to whom they two

became one being of                                  higher organisation than either had alone
-- this binary or monogamic law has been gradually developing itself

in the history of man the heathen, when 'purest, felt that his ideal.

The Bible itself sets forth its gradual rise from inter-marriage with

sisters, concubinage, polygamy, up to our Lord's assertion of the original
ideal of marriage, the one husband and one wife. And St. Paul,

without forbidding polygamy, puts monogamy on such ground that the

whole Church has instinctively felt that as long as Ephesians v. stood

in Scripture, polygamy was base and fearful fall for any Christian
      ;

                                it
                                              a
man.                                                                 going

   " This development of monogamy, as the only idejl cf man,

on now one may see in the increasing dislike to second marriages,

for the very opposite reason to the old Romish dislike to them. Lovers

of high and pure minds now shrink from them, because marriage
so spiritual and timeless -- so pure and mysterious -- an Eternal union,

which once solemnised with the loved one can be transferred to no
other -- which death cannot part. God forbid, however, that any Church

should break gospel liberty by forbidding second marriages. They are
no more sin to those who have not entered into the higher idea of

mairiage, than polygamy                              sinful to the heathen but towards strict
                       I is

                                               if

                                                             it

                                                                                           :

                                                                       it
                                                                              it

                                                                                  it
                                                                                             is

                                                                                                          a
monogamy lies the path of man's education in this age, and in the
strict monogamy to more divine, more Scriptural views of marriage

than the world has yet seen                          this were true  were a sin

   " This brings me to your objection, that

not to marry. To this answer, that were false, were a sin to

marry, in all who knew celibacy to be the higher state, because                                              sin

                                      On Marriage.                                                   i8g

to choose a lower state, without having first striven to the very uttermost

for the higher. And it is a sin to disbelieve that God's grace will be

vouchsafed in answer to prayer and earnest struggles to preserve that

state, as I think the biographies of pious monks and nuns fully show.

They by a vow, which they believed binding, had made it sinful for

them to marry, for whatsoever is not of faith is sin ; they, therefore,

prayed for grace to avoid that which in them would have been sin, and

they obtained     it.                 Were a Romanist, should look on a continuance
                                      I

                                           a

                                                     is, I
in the state of wedlock as bitter degradation to myself and my wife.

But better answer to your objection that, as said before, man a                                      is
a                                                           I

                                                                         a
spirit-animal, and in communion with God's spirit has right to believe

that his affections are under that spirit's guidance, and that when he

finds in himself such an affection to any single woman as true married

lovers describe theirs to be, he bound (duty to parents and country
                                      is

allowing) to give himself up to his love in child-like simplicity and

self-abandonment, and, at the same time, with solemn awe and self-

humiliation at being thus readmitted into the very garden of the

Lord  :
                                   '
                                      The Eden, where the Spirit and the flesh
                                      Are one again, and new born souls walk free,
                                      And name in mystic language all things new,

                                      Naked and not ashamed.'*

. . . With fear and trembling, putting his shoes from off his feet,'
                                          is

                                                        '
for the place whereon he stands holy ground, even as the ineffable
symbol of the highest of all unions (Eph. v. 25 -- 29) -- with fear and
                  lest he forget the meaning of the glorious mystery
trembling,            man marries without love, he sins not -- at                   least            God
   " Yet
I
shall judge him and not                 But 'for the hardness of our hearts,'
      1 if                            is I.
                                      a man allowed to marry without love and such
              a                                        '
only believe      ? is                                                              ;
                                                    is                                            '

shall have trouble in the flesh,' says St. Paul. For remark all

....through       Corinthians vii., he                    telling of marriage on its lowest

ground            and here            the key to the whole chapter. Who were
                                      The city of harlots -- for centuries sunk in the
the Corinthians

most brutal sensuality, even then getting drunk at the Lord's table.
                  the present necessity -- their low and sensual state which
This     is

               '

would have never comprehended the magnificent idea of marriage,

which he unfolds to his beloved Ephesians, the blameless Church to
whom he speaks of nothing but the deepest and most glorious

trnths.

                                      Saint's Tragedy," Act II. Scene ix.

I go Charles Kingsley.

...." True, there is a blessing pronounced on him who gives up wife for
Christ's sake and the Gospel's  But in God's name let it be for
Christ's sake -- not for his own sake, that he may do the more good, not

merely that he may be the more good. Is a man to be rewarded because

for the sake of attaining (as he thinks that he may attain) what he calls
' a higher place in heaven,' he refuses to bring immortal beings, made in
God's image -- heirs of Christ's redemption into the world, and to obey

the primeval and as yet unrepealed command? Oh ! sir, whoever calls

Ithis devoutness, call it selfishness.
  I" But if a man, on the other hand, --as men have done, as must

believe St. Paul did, when I read Ephesians v. and i Timothy iii. 2 -- says
Ito himself, ' know marriage is the highest, because the most symbolic
Iof all human states ; but it is not for me, have a great work to do --a

peculiar vocation, which lies in a quite opposite direction to the duties

of citizen and husband, and must bear that cross. God has refused to

IIlet me love woman ; and even hereafter, if shall love, must turn

away from the fulfilment of that love in time, trusting to my Heavenly

Father to give us some deeper and more ineffable union with each

other in those glories unknown, which He has prepared for those

who love    Him : at all events the work which He has for me must
be done.
as it is.'   And, as a married man, I cannot do my work, peculiar
            I believe that he who should so embrace celibacy, would

deserve all names of honour which men could heap on him, just
because the sacrifice is so great --just because he gives up a pre
sent and manifest honour and blessing -- his rights as man made in
God's image -- committing himself to God to repay him. But what

has this to do with mere selfish safety and easy saving of one's own

soul?

  I" The highest state define as that state through and in which men
can know most of God, and work most for God: and this I assert to be

the married state. He can know most of God, because it is through

those family ties, and by those family names that God reveals Himself to

man, and reveals man's relations to Him. Fully to understand the
meaning of ' a Father in Heaven ' we must be fathers ourselves ; to

know how Christ loved the Church, we must have wives to love, and

love them ; else why has God used those relations as symbols of the

highest mysteries which we (on the Romish theory) are the more
saintly the less we experience of them ? And it is a historic fact, that

just the theologic ideas which a celibate priesthood have been unable

to realise in their teaching, are those of the Father in Heaven --the

Husband in Heaven. Their distortion of the last great truth requires
Ia letter to itself.
                      will only now add an entreaty that you will forgive

                The Bothie of Toper-na-Voirlich.                                              191

Ime if have seemed too dogmatic. But God has showed me these
Ithings in an eventful and blissful marriage history, and woe to me if

preach them not."

   After a second prostration of strength, he was advised to
give up all work entirely, and the winter and spring were spent
in North Devon, at Ilfracombe and Lynmouth.

                     TO JOHN CONINGTON, ESQ.

   " Many                                       Ilfracombe, December 19, 1848.

right ; the  thanks for  your most sensible     remarks                    about   ' Yeast.' Quite
             Prophet is  too like Sidonia, but
                                                I never                    read "  Coningsby "till
Ithe other day, when the Prophet was months old. " Monte Christo "
....never read.      Altogether, I am so dissatisfied with 'Yeast,' that I
shall lay it by pro tern. It was finished, or rather cut short, to please

Fraser, and now it may lie and ferment for a few years. You are right

in your surmise that the finale is mythic and not typic. You will see

why (please God, for I am diffident of myself,) when I finish it. Now
as for Clough's poem. I am game to 'go in ' fiercely against all Mani-

cheans, Hermann-and-Dorothea-formalists,        and other unclean beasts, to

prove that Clough knows best what he wants to say, and how ; and that

taking the poem inductively, and not d priori (as the world, the flesh,
and the devil take works of art), there is a true honest harmony, and a

genial life in  it,  as of  man who seeing things as they were, and
                            a

                                    '
believing that God, and not taste,' or the devil settles things, was not

ashamed to describe what he saw, even to Hobbes's kilt, and the;

" hizzies' " bare legs. All right manly, more godly, too, in my eyes,
than the whole moon-behowling school of male prude-pedants, who

seem to fancy that God has left this lower world since 1688, and would,

they dared, arraign nature as indecent, because children are not born
with shifts on. Carrion-feeders, like the vultures, --they have miracuI if
lous sense of smell -- for the foul.I                                              I
    " But in the meantime am hardly up to much work.                                       a
                I                                                                  have Mrs.
                        if I

                                                     '
                                                                        '

                                                       if
Jamieson's book to review, which will be hard work for my poor addle
brain, which feels, after an hour's reading, as some one had stirred
                                                                                              it

with a spoon.        have, however, tinkered up something light and quaint

by way of a review, since writing the above, and shall get done off
                                                                                   '

                                                                                         it
in a day or two. So you will keep your trumpet for Ambarvalia,'

will celebrate the birth of the Bothie with penny whistle and banjo.

. . am mending in health, from the joint action of idleness, the climate

192 Charles Kingsley.

of Paradise, and glorious cliff scenery, and hope to have Maurice staying

with me next week.

"Your man of war called and brought with him another man of war.
IOne attends my church pretty regularly.
                                          like having soldiers about
Ime. am very fond of them, and have a large acquaintance among

them."

                 CHAPTER VIII.

                                                                 1849.
                                                              AGED 30.
WINTER IN DEVONSHIRE-- ILFRACOMBE-- LYNMOUTH-- DECIDES ON TAKING
       PUPILS-- CORRESPONDENCE -- VISIT TO LONDON -- SOCIAL QUESTIONS -- FEVER
       AT EVERSLEY -- RENEWED ILLNESS -- RETURNS TO DEVONSHIRE --CHOLERA
       IN ENGLAND-- SANITARY WORK -- BERMONDSKY-- JACOB'S ISLAND -- LETTER

      FROM MR. C. K. PAUL.

      VOL. I.

Passion, or "sensation." I am not afraid of the word, still less of the thing. You
Ihave

tion
 heard many cries against sensation lately ; but,         can tell you, it is not       less sensa
we want, but more. The ennobling difference            between one man and
                                                                                        another --
between one animal and another-- is precisely in this, that one feels more than another.
If we were sponges, perhaps sensation might not be easily got for us ; if we were earth

worms, liable at every instant to be cut in two by the spade, perhaps too much sensa

tion might not be good for us. But being human creatures, IT IS good for us ; nay,

we are only human in so far as we are sensitive,  and  Rouurskhionn,ou"r  is precisely  in propor
tion to our passion.                                                      Sesame and    Lilies."

              CHAPTER VIII.

THIS year began in ill-health at Ilfracombe, where Mr. Maurice

with other friends came to visit him, and went away depressed

at seeing the utter exhaustion, mental and bodily, of one who

had been the life and soul of their band of workers in 1848. He
was able to do nothing for months -- riding, walking, and even

conversation were too much for him ; and wandering on the sea

shore, collecting shells and zoophytes, with his wife and children,

was all the exertion that he could bear, while dreaming over
" The Autobiography of a Cockney Poet," which in the autumn

was to develop into "Alton Locke." With much difficulty he

got  through   an article on Mrs. Jamieson's"  Sacred and Legendary
     " for "  Fraser's Magazine," which he     had promised.* Mr.
Art

Froude came to him from Oxford in February, and then and

there made acquaintance with his future wife, Mrs. Kingsley's

sister, who was also at Ilfracombe. There are few letters to

mark the winter and spring of 1 849, and fewer poems.

                             TO JOHN CONINGTON, Esq.

                                                                "Ilfracombe, January 6, 1849.
   " You and your worthy brother, my dear Conington, have my
leave to misunderstand me as often as you will, provided that your
mistakes, as this one has done, bring out your convictions of those

Itruths which hold most precious.
   I" But you must not fancy for a moment that have been untrue to

my own anthropology. Let me explain myself. You know of course,
that spiritual truths present themselves to us in 'antinomies,' appa
rently contradictory pairs, pairs of poles, which however do not really
contradict or even limit each other, but are only correlatives, the
existence of the one making the existence of the other necessary,

              * Since published in his Miscellanies.

                                                       O2

196 Charles Kingsley.

explaining each other, and giving each other a real standing ground

and equilibrium. Such an antinomic pair are those two great sayings,

If' He that loveth not, knoweth not God ;' and ' a man hate not

father, mother, wife, he cannot be my disciple.' Both are utterly true

without limitation ; and believe me, my dear friend, that he who has

been led by love to a human being, to understand the mystery of that

Divine love which fills all heaven and earth, and concentrates itself into

an articulate manifestation in the person of Christ, will soon begin to

find that he cannot enter into the perfect bliss of that truth, without

going further, and seeing that the human heart requires some standing

ground for its affection, even for the love of wife and child, deeper and

surer than that love, namely, in utter loyalty, resignation, adoring affec
                                                           It is
tion to Him in whom all human loveliness is concentrated.
Ia great mystery. It is a hard lesson. I have not learnt it yet, but
Ifam learning it.
                   the love of woman is to be the main spring of our
actions, if she is to be our God, we shall find that the idolatry will

avenge itself. We shall be disappointed in our idol, let her be as

perfect as Romanists have feigned the Virgin Mary herself. Then we

shall find that our love cannot justify itself by her perfection, and

therefore it must justify itself by itself. It must stand on the ground of

our emotions and our own will, and that is a poor quicksand whereon

to build duty and obedience. The experiment was tried by the old

Provencal knights and troubadours in chivalry, and fearfully it failed

both for man and woman. But let a man believe that he who loveth

father, wife, child, more than Christ, is not worthy of Him. Let him

be content to carry out the great law of self-sacrifice, even to his

marriage bed. Let him hold himself in willingness to give up even
woman's love, if his Lord shall call upon him to do so, and he will find

the truth of another great antinomy, that ' he that loseth his life shall
save it' -- that there is no man who has given up wife or child for Christ's

sake but he shall receive an hundred fold more in this present time ; he
will find that he has taken his wedded love, out of the protection of his

own self-will, and put it into the hands of Him who is the Lord and

Giver of Love, able and faithful to keep that which is committed to

Him, to fill him more and more with the spirit of affection and chivalry

and adoration to one woman, and to all other women in her. He will
Ifind, say, if he will but hear Christ's words in the latter of those two
Itruths, that Christ Himself will fulfil the former of them for him.
                                                                      am
Inot talking mysticism -- am talking sound, plain matter of fact

naturalism, as open and possible to the labouring man as to the sage.

....But of this more hereafter. Mrs. Kingsley, who has been my amanu

ensis, will not allow me to say more."

                                                Elegiacs.                               197

   During a solitary ride on Morte Sands, he composed some
elegiacs, of which he speaks in the following letter :

                            TO J. MALCOLM LUDLOW, Esq.

      .... I Ilfracombe, February, 1849.

     " send you the enclosed lines as some proof that the
exquisite elegiac metre suits our English language (as indeed everything
beautiful does). They are but a fragment. You were the cause of

their not being finished ; for your kindness swept away the evil spirit
Iof despondency, and hold it a sin to turn on the Werterian tap, of
If Imalice prepense.
                               they are worth finishing,           shall have sorrows
Ienough ere die, no doubt, to put me in the proper vein for them again.
I send them off to escape the torment of continually fidgeting and
Ipolishing at them ; for whatever I may say in defence of my own case,
Idare not let anything go forth, except as highly finished as can make

it.   Show them to the oak of the mountain,' the Master (Mr. Maurice),
he will recognize the place, and the feeling of much of them, and ask
                            a
                                  '
him whether, with palinode, setting forth how out of winter must come

spring, out of death life, they would not be tolerably true

     Wearily stretches the land to the surge, and the surge to the cloudland  ;

     Wearily onward ride, watching the water alone.I
     Not as of old, like Homeric Achilles, kvSiI yaluv,

     Joyous knight errant of God, thirsting for labour and strife,
     No more on magical steed borne free through the regions of ether,

     But, like the hack which ride, selling my sinew for gold.
     Fruit-bearing autumn gone let the sad, quiet winter hang o'er me --
     What were the spring to soul laden with sorrow and shame
                               is                                  ?
                                                                                                      ;
                                 aI
                                             ;

     Blossoms would fret me with beauty my heart has no time to be-praise them
                                                       ;

     Grey rock, bough, surge, cloud, waken no yearning within.

     Sing not, thou skylark above               Even angels pass hushed by the weeper.
                               !
                                           !
     Scream on, ye sea fowl my heart echoes your desolate cry.
     Sweep the dry sand on, thou wild wind, to drift o'er the shell and the sea-weed
                                                                   *
     Sea-weed and shell, like my dreams, swept down the pitiless tide.
                                                                         I
                                                                                          !
                                                                                              ·
                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                ;
     Just the wave which uptore us 'tis Nature's own law which condemns us
     Woe to the weak who, in pride, build on the faith of the sand
     Joy to the oak of the mountain he trusts to the might of the rock -clefts
           is                        *
                                                 :
             I                                      ;
     Deeply he mines, and in peace feeds on the wealth of the stone.*

                                                          +

     " ....               have hope also of the book which am writing, the

Autobiography of Cockney Poet, which has revealed itself to me so
                            a

rapidly and methodically, that feel                          I it  comes down from above, and
                                     it I
....that only my folly can spoil --which pray against daily.
   " never felt the reality and blessing of that church con
             I

198 Charles Kingsley.

....Ifession and absolution more than           did in this morning's service.

Tha"nTkelyl oCuhaforlresall  and every  hint    found  to-day  another  huge comatula,
                             Mansfield
                                        I have
and bottled him with his legs, by great dodging. I am always finding

something fresh                         Poor Maurice ! But a little persecu

   " Best love to all our friends.

tion is a blessing to any man. Still it does make one sick to hear these

quill-driving cowards and bigots attacking him."

   The expenses of illness, and his inability to meet them by
writing, obliged him now to think of some other means, and he

consulted Mr. Maurice about taking pupils. Mr. Maurice wrote at
once to Professor Thompson, now Master of Trinity, Cambridge :

" Kingsley, who, I think, is known to you, has been disabled

for some time, and has been obliged to leave his living. He is much

better, and wishes very much for a pupil to prepare for orders or even

Ifor college. He is now at Ilfracombe. At Eversley he would have
accommodation in a very pleasant house.                do not know a man more
fitted for the work--scarcely any one equally fitted. He is a good,

accurate, and enthusiastic scholar, full of knowledge of all things about

him, and delight in them ; and more likely to give a young man of the

day a good direction in divinity, meeting his difficulties and dealing

Ihonestly with them, than any person have fallen in with. His con

versation is full of interest even when he is ill ; when he is well he is

the freshest, freest hearted man in England                             His home is
Ifaltogether most pleasant, and those who dwell in it.
Ihim help,                                                              you can give

            shall be most grateful to you".Yours ever truly,
                                                               " F. D. Maurice."

   He gives his own plan of teaching, or rather training a pupil,

in a characteristic letter to Mrs. Scott, wife of Rev. A. J. Scott,

afterwards Principal of Owens College, Manchester :

 .... I"Will

pupils ?

I should
you excuse my burdening you with another word about

        I am not going to talk of what can teach ; but what

try to teach, would be principally physical science, history,

English literature, and modern languages. In my eyes the question is

not what to teach, but how to educate ; how to train not scholars, but
                                                                                  If I
men; bold, energetic, methodic, liberal-minded, magnanimous.

                     Devonshire Scenery.                                                   199

Ican succeed in doing that,          shall do what no salary can repay --

and what is not generally done, or expected to be done, by private
            "
tutors

   On the receipt of this letter, Mr. Scott remarked, " That is
what is wanted, and it is what Charles Kingsley will do." Not
withstanding the efforts of his friends, the pupils were not forth
coming. His writings had caused a strong prejudice against
him ; and it was not till the following year that he succeeded.
The long waiting was repaid when the pupil came, and the
labour, which throughout was a labour of love, was more than

repaid, being spent on one who realised the tutor's ideal in after
life. That pupil will speak for himself in another chapter.

   The leave of absence was now extended to the summer, and

gradually the rest told upon him, and he wrote more cheerfully

to his parents :

" MY DEAREST PEOPLE, --              Ilfracombe, April Fool's Day, 1849.

            I" Many thanks for all your great kindness ; should be now

like Batsy Bannett, ' the mazed woman teu Morte that picketh shalls,'
if it had not been for all your care of my few sheep in the wilderness.
I am quite ashamed of amusing myself here while you are toiling for
Ime ; but being here, will not do things by halves, and am leading a
truly hoggish life -- viz. :
walking, o hours reading         18  hours sleeping,   4 hours                  eating, 2  hours
                                     ; which you will   allow is                a change   in my
                              -- 24

dietetics.
I" Mansfield and go geologizing and shell-picking; but ah! ! ! 'ther
Ibaint no shells ! Where be they gwan ? '
                                                       went to Morte yesterday,
Iand found, as indeed do of all this country, that my old childish

recollection had painted not as usual, larger and more striking than
                              it,

                                I

                                                 I

                                                                                    a
the actuality, but smaller.          find that was not, as boy of ten,

capable of taking in the grandeur of the scenery here, and that had
                                                                                           I

brought away only as much of as could hold. Every hill (and this
                              I

                                      it

                                        I

                                             I

                                                                          a is
strikes me much), except perhaps little Capstone,                               much higher and

grander than thought.                feel the change from North Hants very
much -- the world seems turned upside down.I
                                                              get strange swimming
                  I
in the wits now and then, at seeing farm-houses under my feet, and cows

feeding like so many flies against   wall. It the strange position of
                                     a
                                                          is

well-known objects, and not the height, which upsets me. On the

contrary, find my climbing head surer than ever, and can placidly

2oo Charles Kingsley,

look over the awful gulf of Hillsborough as if it were a six foot wall.

We have had some glorious climbs already, which have put new life

into me. In fact, were I to return to work to-morrow, the journey

would, so far, have cured me--the very sight of the hills round Barn

sta"plWe hwaats  enough.       curse-blessing  is this same ' Heimweh,' this
                 a mysterious

intense love of one's own country, which makes it seem pleasanter

to lie down here and die, than to live anywhere else on earth.

It is a righteous and a God-given feeling, and one which, as Carlyle
says, distinguishes man from the ape -- that local attachment, root of
all true patriotism, valour, civilization -- woe to those who fancy it fine

to turn cosmopolite, and by becoming 'citizens of the world,' lose the

very idea of citizenship, for the sake of doing what a navigator's dog or

a gipsey's donkey can do a great deal better.
   " But a truce to field-officery. Pray tell me how and where to find

shells. Morte and even Barricane itself, was monopolized by countless

millions of mactra stultorum-- there was hardly another shell. Crewkerne

is very barren; at Rillage Point the beach is quite altered, all the sands

gone. What is the name also of the Pteridophilos, or fern-loving

Figaro, of whom you told me? And ' where, oh where,' is the Venus'

Maidenhair gone? I have hunted every wet rock and 'shute' from

Rillage Point to the near side of Hillsborough, at danger of my neck,

Iand cannot find a scrap, but plenty of Asplenium marinum, which you
couldn't find.     will thereof bring you some. Pray inform me how
Ito get shells ; and pray don't say that ' Yeast ' is written by me.

shall be  able to  do better with it by  remaining  incog.    after  their  long
           infant  pilgrims are as well  as can be  expected
   " The

confinement to the house by rain.

  I" have found the most wonderful beasts on the rocks you can

imagine. Comatula rosea, bred between the star-fish, a coralline, and

an encrinite, animal, vegetable, and mineral, which start as stone-flowers,

and then break off their stalk, and go about with legs and arms, and

the beauty in shape and colour is wonderful. I enclose a drawing ;
just send a note to Dr. Roget, to ask him if he has found them here,
and to say I shall be happy to preserve some for him. I am now
I Ibetter than have been at all, may say. A tremendous gale of wind

has acted on me exactly like champagne and cathedral-organs in one,

Iand restored my (what you would call nervous) what call magnetic

tone."

   It had been a great sorrow to him to give up his work at

Queen's College, and he was never able to resume it. Besides

                    Lectures at Queens College.                            201

two introductory lectures on literature and composition, instinct
with genius, now out of print, he only delivered one course on
Early English Literature. The Rev. Alfred Strettell took his

place, and to him he writes from

                                        Lynmouth, April 17, 1849.

" Many thanks for your kind letter.             I left off before the

Conquest, my next lecture would have been on Edward the Con
fessor --the difference between a good man and a good king-- like
him and Louis XVI. The rotting of the Anglo-Saxon system --
                                  originate --
inability of Saxon mind      to                 Anglo-Saxon,          (a   female
race) required impregnation   by   the great                          the  Norse
                                                 male race, --

introduction of Northmen by Edward paving the way for the

Conquest, &c. Let me recommend to you Thierry's History of the
Conquest (cum grano salis), and also Bulwer's Harold --whose history

philosophy is not bad
   " Go your own way ; what do girls want with a ' course of litera

ture?' Your business and that of all teachersI a II     not to cram them
                                                        is,
with things, but to teach them how to read for themselves. A singleI. I

half century known thoroughly, as you are teaching, will give them        I

canons and inductive habits of thought, whereby to judge all future
centuries. We want to train--not cupboards full of 'information' (vile

misnomer), but real informed women.

   " quite agree with you about Chaucer's Norman and Saxon elements.
I
              1said something about in my Introduction. Don't be afraid of talk
                    it
             is
                it
ing about marriage. We must be real and daring at Queen's College,
or nowhere. The 'clear stage and no favour' which we have got

there             so blessed and wonderful an opening, that we must make the

most of to utter things there which prudery and fanaticism have

"Ibanished from pulpits and colleges.
        read out some Caedmon -- no ^Elfric -- think some Beowulf --

Ibut should counsel you to let that be (as gave them the Athelstan
Ballad, and some of Alfred's, &c.), and just do what intended. Give
them a lecture on the rise of our Norse forefathers --give them some

thing from the Voluspa and Edda. Show them the peculiar wild, mourn

ful, gigantic objective imagination of the men, and its marriage with the

Saxon subjectivity   (as   fancy) to produce ballad      school.      Remember
two things. The            are the great creators, all  through       and all the
                    Norse
       I                                                          --
                      I
ballads came from the North of England and Lowlands of Scotland, i.e.,

from half Norse blood.                                            We will have
   " But suspect you know more about all this than

some happy talks, please God, in June.  am so much better that

2O2 Charles Kingsley.

am going off to Clovelly to-morrow for three or four days. Kindest
remembrances to all at Taplow."

   From Clovelly, where he went with his wife's sister and
Mr. Froude, he writes home :

..." Only a few lines, for the post starts before breakfast. We got
here all safe. C. enjoyed herself by lying in misery at the bottom of
                       I cannot believe my eyes : the same
the boat all the way.

place, the pavement, the same dear old smells, the dear old handsome

loving faces again. It is as if I was a little boy again, or the place had

stood still while all the world had been rushing and rumbling on past
Iit ; and then suddenly recollect your face, and those two ducks on the
Ipier ; and it is no dream ; this is the dream, and am your husband ;
Iwhat have I not to thank God for ?
                                     have been thanking Him ; but
Iwhere can stop ? We talk of sailing home again, as cheapest and

pleasantest; most probably Friday or Saturday. To-dayl lionize Charlotte

over everything. Kiss the children for me."

   The following letter, addressed to a young man going over to

Rome, though incomplete, is too valuable to omit. Several pages
have been lost, which will account for any want of sequence.

" MY DEAR SIR,--       HARLEY HOUSE, CLIFTON, May n, 1849.

      " I have just heard from Charles Mansfield, to my inexpressible

grief, that you are inclined to join the Roman Communion ; and at the

Irisk of being called impertinent, cannot but write my whole heart to

you.
I"What say may be irapa rdv Xoyo'n, after all; if so, pray write and
Ilet me know what your real reasons are for such a step.
                                                             think, as one
IChristian man writing to another, may dare to entreat this of you.
For believe me I am no bigot. I shall not trouble you with denun
Iciations about the ' scarlet woman' or the ' little horn.'
                                                             cannot but re

gard with awe, at least, if not reverence, a form of faith which God thinks

good enough still for one half (though it be the more brutal, profligate,

and helpless half) of Europe. IBelieve me, can sympathise with you.
I have been through it ; I have longed for Rome, and boldly faced the
Iconsequences of joining Rome ; and though now have, thank God,

cast all wish of change behind me years ago, as a great lying devil's

Itemptation, yet still long as ardently as ever to see in the Church of

England much which only now exists, alas ! in the Church of Rome.

                                 The Romish Church.                                                            203

ICan not feel for you? Do I not long for a visible, one, organized
IChurch? Do not shudder at the ghastly dulness of our services ? Do
I Inot pray that may see the day when the art and poetry of the nine

teenth century shall be again among us, turned to their only true destina

tion --the worship of God? Have I shed no bitter, bitter tears of shame

and indignation in cathedral aisles, and ruined abbeys, and groaned
aloud ' Ichabod, Ichabod, the glory is departed,' etc."

      "[HCearne   some pages are  lost.]      of your                  soul  to Him                that  made  your
                 you not commit   the saving
soul ? I think it will be in good keeping, unless you take it out of His

hands, by running off where He has not put you. Did you never read
how ' He that saveth his soul shall lose it.' Beware.

   " Had you been born an Italian Romanist I would have said to you,

Don't leave Rome ; stay where you are, and try to mend the Church of

Iyour fathers ; if it casts you out, the sin be on its own head ; and so

say to you. Do you want to know God's will about you ? What plainer

  signs of than the fact that He has made you, and educated you as
  Protestant Englishman. Here, believe -- believe the providentiam,

   Dei in rebus revelatam.' -- Here He intends you to work, and do the
                 it,                                                                                               :a
                                                                   it

''duty which lies nearest. Hold what doctrines you will, but do not take

  yourself out of communion with your countrymen, to bind yourself to

  a system which utterly foreign to us and our thoughts, and only by
                           is

                                 I

                                         ' is
                                                     is

                                                                                            !

                                                                                            !! (a
  casting off which, have we risen to be the most mighty, and, with all our

  sins, perhaps the most righteous and pure of nations                                             fact which the

  Jesuits do not deny).           assure you that they tell their converts that the

  reason why Protestant England allowed to be so much more righteous
  than the Romish nations -- to try the faith of the elect You will surely

  be   above      listening  to such anile sophistry
                 still, you  think, you may be holier there
      " But                                                                        than            here.'  Ah, sir,

    coelum, non animum, mutant, qui trans mare currunt.' Ultramon-

  tanism will be new system but not, think, new character. Cer
  tain outward acts, and certain inward feelings, which are all very nice,
  and right, and pleasant, will be made easier for you there than here
  you will live so charmingly by rule and measure not moment in the
  day but will be allotted out for you, with its appropriate acts of devotion.
                 a
                                           ;

                                          I

                                                                                a

                                              a
                                                                 ;
                                                                           a

                                                                                            ;
  True, now you are man, standing face to face with God then you will
                 a
  (believe one who knows) find yourself machine, face to face, not withaaa
  God, but with priest and system, and hosts of inferior deities, of
  which hereafter. Oh sir, you, free-born Englishman, brought up in that!
  liberty for which your forefathers died on scaffolds and battle-fields --
                                              a
                                                                     a

                                                                      in
  that liberty which begot Shakspeare, Raleigh, Bacon, Milton,
                                  a

  Newton, Faraday, Brooke-- will you barter away that inestimable gift

2O4 Charles Kingsley.

because Italian pedants, who know nothing of human nature but from
the books of prurient celibates, tell you that they have got a surer ' dodge '

for saving your soul than those have, among whom God's will, not your
own, has begotten and educated you ? But you ' will be able to rise to
a greater holiness there.' Holiness, sir ? Devoutness, you mean. The
' will of God' is your holiness already, and you may trust Him to perfect
His will in you here --for here He has put you -- if by holiness you mean

godliness and manliness, justice and mercy, honesty and usefulness.

IBut if by holiness you mean ' saintliness,' quite agree that Rome is the

place to get that, and a poor pitiful thing it is when it is got -- not God's
ideal of a man, but an effeminate shaveling's ideal. Look at St. Francis

de Sales, or St. Vincent de Paul's face, and then say, does not your
English spirit loathe to see that ? God made man in His image, not
in an imaginary Virgin Mary's image. And do not fancy that you will really

get any spiritual gain by going over. The very devotional system which

will educe and develop the souls of people born and bred up under       I

and cast, constitutionally and by hereditary associations, into its mould,       in
                                                                                            it,
will only prove a dead leaden crushing weight on an Englishman, who
has, as you have, tasted from his boyhood the liberty of the Spirit of
God. You will wake, my dear brother, you will wake, not altogether, but

just enough to find yourself not believing in Romish doctrines about
saints and virgins, absolutions and indulgences, but only believing in
believing them -- an awful and infinite difference, on which beseech you
earnestly to meditate. You will find yourself crushing the voice of con
science, common-sense, and humanity -- mean the voice of God within
                                it
you, in order to swallow down things at which your gorge rises disgust.
                                     I
You will find the Romish practice as different from the Romish ideal asI

the English from the English ideal, and you will find amid all youra
                                                                    it
discontent and doubts, that the habits of religious excitement, and of
     II
leaning on priests whom you will neither revere nor trust for themselves,
will have enchained you like the habits of drunkard or an opium eater,;

so that you must go back again and again for self-forgetfulness to theif

spiritual laudanum-bottle, which gives now no more pleasant dreams,is
                             a
but only painful heartache, and miserable depression afterwards.        is is   know

wh"at   have seen and heard from eye-witnesses.                           if IRome

       know you may answer -- This may be all very fine, but

be the only true Church, thither  must go, loss or gain. Most true.

But take care how you get at this conviction that Rome the true

Church  by process of the logical understanding, that most un

fair, for you will have to renounce the conclusions of the understanding

when you go to Rome. How then can you let lead you, to system
                                                                        a
                                                                                    ?
which asserts in limine that has no right to lead you any where at all

                     Co-operative Movement.                      205

I" But must defer this question, and also that of Romish aesthetics,
Ito another letter.
                     make no apology for plain speaking ; these are
Itimes in which we must be open with each other. And I was greatly
attracted by the little I saw of you.  know there is a sympathy

between us ; and having passed through these temptations in my own

person, God would judge me if I did not speak what He has revealed

to me in bitter struggles. One word more. Pray, answer this, and

pray wait. Never take so important a step without at least six months'

deliberate waiting, not till, but after your mind is made up. Five-
and-twenty years God has let you remain a Protestant. Even if you

were wrong in being one, He will surely pardon your remaining one six

months longer, in a world wherein the roads of error are so many and

broad that a man may need to look hard to find the narrow way."

Before resuming work again at Eversley, he went to London,

and took up the old thread by attending a Chartist meeting on

the 3rd of June, and on the 19th a workmen's meeting on the
Land Colonization question, and from Chelsea he writes home :

.... I" could not write yesterday, being kept by a poor boy who
had fallen off a truck at Croydon and smashed himself, whom I escorted
to Guy's Hospital. I have spent the whole day running up and down
London on business. I breakfasted with Bunsen, such a divine-looking
man, and so kind. I have worlds to tell you. Met F. Newman last
Inight, and breakfast with him to-morrow.
                                            had a long and interesting

talk with Froude last night

  " Monday. --I spent yesterday with Ludlow, and went with him to

Dr. Thorpe's, and to Lincoln's-inn Chapel in the afternoon -- a noble
sight. -- Maurice's head looked like some great, awful Giorgione
portrait in the pulpit, but oh, so worn, and the face worked so at certain
passages of the sermon. It was very pleasant, so many kind greetings
there from old friends, male and female, for some of the Co-operative

friends were there. To-night for the meeting. They expect to muster
Ibetween one and two hundred.
                                   am just going with my father and

mother to Deptford to   put  Mary  T.  (an  Eversley girl) on board an
                     "
emigrant ship

   " Long and most interesting talk with Mons. Chevallier this morning.

.... ILondon is perfectly horrible. To you alone I look for help and advice --

God and you, -- else think at times I should cry myself to death.

             There is a great Tailor's meeting on Friday. The women's
shoe-makers are not set up yet. My sermons (' Village Sermons') are being

206 Charles Kiugsley.

lent from man to man, among the South London Chartists, at such a

pace that Cooper can't get them back again. And the Manchester

men    stole his copy of the Saint's Tragedy

   "  I have just been to see Carlyle."

(Later) "On Friday I dined at Maurice's.         Met Mrs. Augustus

Hare, and a brother of the Archdeacon's, an officer in the Prussian
Iarmy, also Mr. and Mrs. Scott, who were very kind indeed.
                                                            took

George to a soiree at Parker's, and introduced him to all the set there.

On Saturday we dined at Ludlow's, met dear Charles Mansfield and a

Frenchman, now being tried in Paris for the June Row, a complete Red
Republician and Fourierist ; he says nothing but Christianity can save

France or the world. I had an intensely interesting talk with him. In

the evening the Campbells, Shorter the Chartist, and Dr. Walsh, came

in, and we had a glorious evening. G. is quite in a new world. He
                       live ' men                          new 'avatar ' open
says he never  saw  '               before, and he sees a    Maurice, and said
ing for him              **** is   very much struck with
Ito me yesterday that he did not know but what might be in the right

after all, about the old creeds           Longing, longing to be home,
but I am doing my Father's will, I do believe. Maurice and Colson
                                      I am going to see
coming down to Eversley                                    again to

morrow about the Tailor's business, and to sleep at Carshalton and
                                   "
fish with George Glyn

                                              June 12, 1849 (My Birthday).

" Last night will never be forgotten by many, many men. Maurice
Iwas -- cannot describe
                                   Chartists told me this morning that many
I
                    I

                         I
                                                    it.

                                     I
                                                                                                                        !
                                                      I

                                                              I
                                                                         I
were affected even to tears. The man was inspired -- gigantic. No one

commented on what he said. He stunned us         will tell you all when

can collect myself.      am afraid must stay up till Thursday.

cannot get through my work else. Kiss our babes for me
"This morning
                       breakfasted with Dr. Guy, and went with him

Tailor hunting, very satisfactory as yet         Yesterday afternoon

with Professor Owen at the College of Surgeons, where      saw un
                         "
speakable things

   He now settled at Eversley again, and threw himself into;
the full tide of parish work with the loving help of the Rev. H.
Percy Smith, of Baliol, who was ordained to the curacy of
Eversley. The season was unhealthy cholera was brooding

over England, and a bad low fever broke out at Eversley,

which gave the rector incessant work and anxiety. The parish-

                   Devonshire again.                                                                         207

ioners got frightened. It was difficult to get nurses for the sick,

so that he was with them at all hours ; and after sitting up a
whole night with one bad case, a labourer's wife, the mother of
a large family, that he might himself give the nourishment
every half-hour on which the poor woman's life depended, he once
more completely broke down, and London physicians advised

his taking a sea voyage A trip to America and back was pro

posed ; but he dreaded the loneliness, and his parents being

strongly averse to the plan, he went again to Devonshire, hoping
that a month's quiet and idleness would restore him.

   From thence he writes home.

                                                                           Appledore, August 10, 1849.

   " Here I am, no boat having come from Clovelly, to which place

Ia trawler has engaged to take me nine miles for $s. to-morrow morn
ing at eight. A delicious passage down, in which                                             fell in with a

character, a Cornish shipowner and fruit vessel captain, who has in

sisted on my drinking tea with him this evening, and on my coming to

see him in September at Boscastle, near Padstow, where he will give me

sailing in his little yacht, and take me to seal caves, where they lie by
dozens. He of course, like all Cornishmen, a great admirer of your
       a
           is
               a is,

                                                         a;

                                                                                   :
father. Strange, what a name your father seems to have made for himself.

The man     thorough Cornishman shrewd, witty, religious, well in

formed, great admirer of scenery talks about light, and shadow, and

colouring more like an artist than brown-fisted merchant skipper, with
a mass of brain that might have made anything had he taken to books.

I  feel myself already much better. The rich, hot, balmy air, which comes

in now through the open window, off Braunton Burrows, and the

beautiful tide river, mile wide, like an Elixir of life to me. No
                   ;                                                                     I'  '

            a       I
               is        is
night frosts here. It as warm as day.                                                      expect a charming sail to

morrow, and to catch mackerel on the way. The coast down here

looked more lovely than ever the green fern and purple heather have

enriched the colouring since the spring showers succeeded by gleams
                                                                                      ;

of sun, give wonderful freshness and delicacy to all the tints. Dear
         a

old Lynmouth and Ilfracombe, loved them, because they seemed so

full of recollections of you and the children."

                                                                                             Clovelly, 1849.

   " Safe settled at Mrs. Whitefield's in lodgings.                                          am going out fishing
            if
                                                                                                                 was in
                           is
                                          ;                                                                  burrow--

                                   if

                                                        a

                                          I

                                                                               a

                                                        I
to-day in the bay, there wind             not,                                           butterfly hunting.
and out of all the houses last night,  like                                              ferret in rabbit

208 Charles Kingsley.

all so kind. I feel unjustifiably well, and often ask myself, What right
have I to be here, while you are working at home ? . . . .

    " My room is about 12 ft. square on the first-floor, a jessamine, and
a fuchsia running up to the windows. In front, two or three small

 houses, above which, and right in front, towers the wall of wood, oak,
ash and larch, as tender and green as if it were May and not August.

II am near the top of the street, which lines the bottom of this gorge of

woods. On the left, that is down the hill, see from my windows piled
below me, the tops of the nearest houses, and the narrow paved cranny of

Ia street, vanishing downwards, stair below stair, and then above all, up in

the sky it seems, from the great height at which am, the glorious blue
bay, with its red and purple cliffs. The Sand-Bar, and Braunton, the
hills towards Ilfracombe, and Exmoor like a great black wall above all.

The bay is now curling and writhing in white horses under a smoking
south wester, which promises a blessing, as it will drive the mackerel off
the Welsh shore where they now are in countless millions, into our bay ;
and then for fun and food for me and the poor fellows here, who are at
their wits' end, because some old noodles of doctors have persuaded

people that fish gives the cholera. Saturday was too rough for sailing,

Ithough Friday had a charming sail with a poor fellow, who thought

2s. too much, and would work it out by offering to give me a sail in his

herring -boat, which is to come off shortly. Saturday I hired a pony for
1 .r. 6d. and went to Torridge just for the afternoon --caught my basket

full, and among them one 2 lbs. ! ! ! never was such a trout seen in

Clovelly before.

   "We had a charming trip yesterday to Lundy; started at six, and
were five hours going over -- the wind being very light ; but we

went along very pleasantly to a continued succession of Wes-

leyan hymns, in two and three parts, sung most sweetly (every one

sings here, and sings in tune, and well). We dined at the farm-house ;
Idinner costing me is. o</. ; and then rambled over the island.
                                                                 saw the
old Pirate Moresco's Castle on the cliff -- the awful granite cliffs on the
west, with their peaks and chasms lined with sea fowls -- the colouring
wonderful --pink, grey, granite, with bright, yellow lichen spots, purple

heather, and fern of a peculiar dark glowing green. You wanted no

trees ; the beauty of their rich forms and simple green was quite replaced

by the gorgeous brilliance of the hues. And beyond and around all, the
illimitable Atlantic -- not green --but an intense sapphirine black-blue,

such as it never is inshore, and so clear, that every rock and patch of

sea-weed showed plain four hundred feet below us, through the purple

veil of water. Then I went back to the landing cove, where shoals of

                           A Fiery Sea.                                       209

mackerel were breaking up with a roar, like the voice of many waters ;

the cove like glass ; and one huge seal rolling his black head and

Ishoulders about in the deep water -- a sight to remember for ever. Oh,

that had been a painter for that day at least. And coming away, as

the sun set behind the island, great flame coloured sheets of rack flared

up into the black sky from off the black line of the island top; and when

the sun set the hymns began again, and we slipped on home, while every

ripple off the cutter's bow fell down, and ran along the surface in flakes

and sparkles of emerald fire ; and then the breeze died, and we crawled

under our own huge cliffs, through a fiery sea, among the dusky herring

boats, for whom and their nets we had to keep strict watch, and landed,

still through fire, at half-past two in the morning ; and then came the

absurdity; three women, Croft, a sailor, and I, went off first, and ran for

a little strip of land between the pebbles. The beach is like Linton,

only the stones are bigger still ; but we could not get up the sand, and

had to land on the boulder stones, which average a yard high, covered

with slippery sea-weed at dead low water. How we got up I don't know

yet. Croft, unaccustomed either to rocks or sea, was rolling on his face

and hands, and unable to help himself. The rocks seemed endless,
and cut one's shoes about ; but I did not tire myself too much to write a
I Iline to you before got to bed, and slept till eleven a.m.
                                                                              send you a

little bit of dwarf centaury of the cliff above the Seal Caves, as a token.

What am I to do with eight sketches of Hero and Leander, which

I Ihave been finishing very carefully, and are the best things ever did?

Shall I send them ? This place is perfect -- continued grey clouds night

and day, just the same warmth. The air like a hot-scented air-bath.

But it all seems a dream, unreal as well as imperfect, without you. . . .

Kiss the darling ducks of children for me. How I long after them
and their prattle. I delight in all the little ones in the street for their
sake, and continually I start and fancy I hear their voices outside. You
Ido not know how love them ; nor did I hardly till I came here. After

all, absence quickens love into consciousness."

                           Torridge Moors, West Country Inn.

   " I have  been fishing    the Torridge  Ttoo--mdaoyr.rowCauI ghret tur1n\  dozen --very
             which was     against me.
bright sun,                                                                   to Clovelly.
I have got a companion here who is fishing and collecting his rents.

Gentleman-like man, and friend of Hawker's the West Country Poet.

Tennyson was down here last year, and walked in on Hawker to collect

Arthur legends. I feel quite lonely, and long to be home. And these

moors are very desolate from ignorance and neglect only, for they

might be made as fine land as the carse of Berwick and the Lothians.

210 Charles Kingsley.

When will men see that God's laws are their interest ? Talk of man

kind being ruled by self-interest ! Juggling fiend. It is its own bane.

None are so blind to their own interest as the selfish.  Witness the
                        "
Torridge Moors

                                               Clovelly, Aug. 16, 1849.

If I I" tell you that am happy outwardly, you must not suppose that
I am not just as lonely as you at heart         All the pleasure of
Iperfect rest, and am in perfect rest, and in a new-old and lovely place,
does not take off the edge of my solitude. Already I feel it--how much
Imore a month hence.
Iimmensely from him.       have read Rabelais right through, and learnt

                           have been reading P. Leroux's book on

Christianity and Democracy, and am now reading Ruskin. The
Iweather has been too stormy for trawling, but
                                                have got a few nice
        ILast night gave a tea-party with cream and your cake,
shells

which is too good for me, to my landlady and Mr. and Mrs. Wimble,

and we all agreed we only wanted you and my mother : as it was we were
very merry, and finished with prayers. My landlady is an extraordinary
woman, a face and figure as of a queen, but all thought, sensibility and
excitement ; a great ' deVote ' and a true Christian ; between grief and

religion she has learnt a blessed lesson. Old Wim. potters in, like an old

grey-headed Newfoundland dog, about three times a day to look after

Ime in all sorts of kind and unnecessary ways. And sit on the

window seat and watch the wonderful colouring of the bay spread like
                                                home. To-day I am
a map below me, and just think of nothing but

going out in one of the large herring boats ; there is plenty of wind,

and the herrings and mackerel are coming in.
I" Tell Rose will write her a letter, and thank her very much for
I IIter"'sT. hisSaayir
         am so pleased to hear she is a good    girl.              you
        is so very relaxing, and am getting     so lonely without
I Ithat change of scene must have.
                                    shall go to Dartmoor, and ramble
Iover the Moor to my birth-place, Holne.
                                              have been pestered with

letter after letter asking me to join this new popular Church paper, but
Ihave of course fought off.
                             am convinced at moments that, after all,
Ithe best place for me is at home
                                    Do not be surprised if return
                                    "
to you in ten days from Dartmoor
I I"Saturday
                start.     am quite in spirits at the notion of the

Moor. It will give me continual excitement; it is quite new to
Ime -- and am well enough now to walk in moderation.
Iknow when you receive my drawings.                      Let me
                                         am doing you a set more --
Istill better hope. 'The Artist's Wife,' seven or eight sketches of

Claude Mellot and Sabina, two of my most darling ideals, with a scrap

                                               " Hetmtveh."                                                            211

of conversation annexed to each, just embodying my dreams about
                                               "
married love and its relation to art

                            TO HIS MOTHER.

                                                             Clovelly, August 14, 1849.

   "Gaining health and strength here fast; and the quiet is as novel
as refreshing. This place seems more beautiful than of old. Con

trary to one's usual experience in visiting old scenes, the hills are higher,

Ithe vegetation more luxurious, the colouring richer than had fancied.

I sail a great deal ; the difficulty only to make the people take any
        I
                                                         is,
                                                                                                       ;
money.  am kept in fish, gratis, by half the town and at every door

there are daily inquiries, loving and hearty, after you and my father.
How these people love you both. Your stay here seems to have been

the era in their memories                      do not know how to get through the day»
   " Happy and idle.
                !
strange to say              too rough for trawling to-day, and too wet
                    It

                      I is I
for entomologising. So do nothing but smell the woods, and chat

with Wimble. Many thanks for frightening me away from America, and

putting me on coming here. This                the place. The wounded bird
                                               is
                                                  in

                                                           I

                                                                              '

                                                                                                                    '
goes to the nest and firmly believe the magnetic effect of the place
where one has been bred not to mention that am perhaps the only
        I
                  ;
                   I
                                            ;
Englishman ever met who has continually the true heimweh home
sickness, of the Swiss and Highlanders. The thought of the West

Country will make me burst into tears at any moment. Wherever am
                                               II
                                                                a
                                                                  a it I I
                                                                                        is
                                                                                I
                                                                                                                  a
   always hangs before my imagination as home, andit                                                      feel myself
stranger and sojourner in foreign land the moment                                                            get east of
                                                                                                                most real,
Taunton Dean, or the Mendips. It may be fancy, but
        a
             is
                  a

                                     a
and practical, as many fancies are.             felt new life, renewing my
youth like the eagle's, the day after
                                               got here. The very smell of

Wimble's house  fragrance (spiritually not physically) from the fairy

gardens of childhood."

                        TO M. LUDLOW, Esq.
is

  I

                a

                                             :

                        I

                                  J.

                                    iIs,

                                                                            a
                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                         aa
                                                             Clovelly, August 17, 1849,

    " am at last enjoying perfect rest-- doing nothing but fish, sail, chat

with old sailor and Wesleyan cronies, and read, by way of nice

mixture, Rabelais, Pierre Leroux, and Ruskin. The first, were he seven

times as unspeakably filthy as he              consider as priceless in wisdom,
and often in true evangelicgodliness -- more of him hereafter. The second

    indeed blessed dawn. The third,            noble, manful, godly book,

blessed dawn too but cannot talk about them lam as stupid as

212 Charles Kitigsley.

Iporpoise, and lie in the window, and smoke and watch the glorious

cloud-phantasmagoria, infinite in colour and form, crawling across the
vast bay and deep woods below, and draw little sketches of figures, and
do not even dream, much less think. Blessed be God for the rest,

Ithough never before felt the loneliness of being without the beloved

being, whose every look and word and motion are the keynotes of my

!...."life. People talk of love ending at the altar. . . . Fools

TO HIS WIFE.

Colebrook, Credito.n, September 2, 1849.

" Drosier has insisted on taking me in [Rev. J. Drosier, Rector of
IaCnogleelbicroookf].menH--e
 himself, with his handsome grey head, is the                 most
good sense, imperturbable sweetness, earnestness,              and
simplicity beaming from his countenance and his life--for know his

history has been as noble as his looks. The three youths here are his

playfellows rather than his pupils. I shall stay on the Moor till my
Imoney is gone, and then come home. To-morrow go to Chagford.

IDirect to me there for three days. The place is lovely, on the edge of
the Moor, with the Teign running past.  am perfectly well to-day.

The coach drive and change of air have completely cured me."

  " Here I am at Chagford in a beautiful old mullioned and gabled ' per

pendicular' inn --granite and syenite everywhere -- my windows looking

out on the old churchyard, and beyond, a wilderness of lovely hills and
Iwoods -- two miles from the Moor-- fresh air and health everywhere.
Iwent up into the Moor yesterday, and killed a dish of fish.
                                                              am as
Iwell as ever was in my life. Stay here for three days, and then move
Ito Two Bridges. From thence go to Holne, return to Colebrook, and
Ithen home ! home ! home ! How thirst for it."

"Starting out to fish down to Drew's Teignton --the old Druid's

Isacred place, to see Logan stones and cromlechs. Yesterday was
the most charming solitary day         ever spent in my life -- scenery

more lovely than tongue can tell. It brought out of me the following
bit of poetry, with many happy tears.

                       TOET.

I cannot tell what you say, green leaves,
  I cannot tell what you say ;

IBut know that there is a spirit in you,

   And a word in you this day.

              The Moor.                             213

I cannot tell what ye say, rosy rocks,
  I cannot tell what ye say ;

But I know that there is a spirit in you,

   And a word in you this day.

I cannot tell what ye say, brown streams,
  I cannot tell what ye say ;

But I know in you too, a spirit doth live,

    And a word in you this day.

        THE WORD'S ANSWER.

Oh, rose is the colour of love and youth,
And green is the colour of faith and truth,
And brown of the fruitful clay.
The earth is fruitful, and faithful, and young,
And her bridal morn shall rise ere long,
And you shall know what the rocks and the streams,
And the laughing green-woods say !

If" Show these to C.  she has taken in the real good of Spinozism,
Ishe ought to understand them. To-morrow tramp for Two Bridges."

                                                                                        Two Bridges.

   " Got on the Teign about three miles up, and tracked it into the

IMoor. About two miles in the Moor found myself to my delight
in the ruins of an old British town, as yet, I fancy, unknown.

The circular town wall, circular gardens, circular granite huts, about
twenty feet in diameter, all traceable. All round was peat-bog, in
dicating the site of ancient forests. For you must know that of
old, Dart Moor was a forest --its valleys filled with alder and hazel,

its hill-sides clothed with birch, oak, and 'care,' mountain ash.

But these, like the Irish, were destroyed to drive out the Cymry,
and also dwindled of their own accord, having exhausted the soil;

and moreover, the scrub, furze, and heather which succeeded them,

have been periodically burnt down for centuries, that grass for cattle
may spring up. So that the hills now are covered with coarse
pasture, or a peat soil, which wraps the hills round, and buries the
granite rocks, and softens all the outlines till the moor looks like an
enormous alternation of chalk downs and peat bogs, only that the
downs are strewn with huge granite stones and capped with 'tors,'

which cannot be described -- only seen. I sketched two or three this

Iafternoon for you. Well, got to Teign head -- through a boggy glen.
IOut of the river banks, which were deep peat, got a piece of fossil
birch bark for you. Then I climbed a vast anticlinal ridge, and seeing

214 Charles Kingsley.

Ia great tor close by, could not resist the temptation, and went up.

Oh ! what a scene ! a sea of mountains all round, and in the far east
wooded glens, fertile meadows, twenty miles off-- far -- far below ; and

here and there through the rich country some spur of granite hill

peeped up, each with its tor, like a huge ruined castle, on the top.
IThen, in the midst of a bog, on the top of the hill, came on two
Isplendid Druid circles, ' the grey wethers,' as afterwards found out,
five and thirty yards in diameter -- stones about five feet above the
bog -- perhaps more still below it -- evidently a sun temple in the heart
Iof a great oak forest, now gone.
                                      traced the bog round for miles, and
Ithe place was just one to be holy, being, suppose, one of the loftiest

woods in the Moor. After that, all was down, down, down, over the

lawn and through deep gorges, to the East Dart. At Port Bridge, I
Imeant to sleep, but found myself so lively that walked on the four

miles to this place -- twenty miles about, of rough mountain, and got in

as fresh as a bird. The day was burning bright, so I only killed a

Idozen or so of fish. Every valley has its beautiful clear stream, with

myriad fish among great granite boulders. To-day got up at seven,

and walked over, after breakfast, to Cherry Brook, two and a-half miles,
the best fishing on the moor -- the sharp easterly wind made the fish
Ilie like stones --and down Cherry Brook and up Dart, home, and only
Ikilled seventeen.
Imen's) wood-- the
              Then, after luncheon,   sallied to Wistmen's    (Wise
                                                               shall
              last remaining scrap of primeval forest. But
I Iwrite all night to tell you all saw and felt.
                                                  send you an oak leaf from
the holy trees, and a bit of moss from them -- as many mosses as leaves --

poor old Britons ! The grey moss is from the ruins of an old Cymry
house near by -- a Druid may have lived in it ! The whortle berry is
Ifrom the top of a wonderful rock three miles on, which have sketched.
IOh, such a place !  climbed to the top. I was alone with God and
Ithe hills --the Dart winding down a thousand feet below -- could only
Ipray. And felt impelled to kneel on the top of the rock -- it seemed
the only true state to be in in any place so primeval --so awful --which
made one feel so indescribably little and puny. And I did pray --and
....the Lord's Prayer too -- it seemed the only thing to express one's heart
Iin. But will tell you all at home I  It is an infinite relief and
Irest to me to have seen even some little of the Moor.
                                                        was always

from a child longing for and now, thank God, that fulfilled.
          !

             It ; I I
                                   it,
                                                     a
                                                                                     a is

                                                               I
"To-morrow walk to Holne by Cator's Beam, i.e. over the highest

mountain on the South Moor, from which all the South Devon streams

rise. Sunday  spend at Holne, Monday at Ashburton, Manaton,

and Lustleigh Tuesday through Chagford to Colebrook, and Thurs
              seems -- sometimes day, sometimes year since saw
day home

               Cholera Crusade.                                    215

Iyou.  shall bring you home several drawings and sketches, both of

figu"reKsisasntdheofdtahrelinMgoboarbsecsenfoerrym. e."

               TO HIS FATHER.

                                                                                         KVERSLEY, Scptember, 1849.

  " I had purposed to have written to you from Holne, but being
Ipanic-struck at the increased ill-health of the parish, I hurried home
where am. What I saw of Holne more than justified your praises and
drawings of it. Hazel Tor is to me the finest thing I have seen except

Ithe Upper Wye, which the whole place much resembles (I mean from

Plinlimmon to Presteign). Of Benjay Tor did not see as much as

I wished. The man who drove me said it was the finest thing they had.
But of that kind of scenery I had seen much on the High Teign the

preceding week, at Gidleigh, Drew's Teignton, which quite astonished

me by its mingled lusciousness and grandeur. The distinctive and specific

glory of Holne was the descent into cultivation down Holne Ridge,

after four hours' awful silence and desolation from Fox Tor Mire, along

the Titanic ridges of Cator's Beam, Aum Head, and Peter in the Mount,

over the black bog, which varies the primaeval forest, the first gleam of

spires, and woods, and chequered fields, first tinkle of the sheep bell,

and creak of the plough, and halloo of boys, and the murmur of the
Ihidden Dart.
               could only pray and thank God for showing me such a

Ithin"gT.he people,
Ihave seen, had
               Iall whom saw, and very many whom longed to

               not been swept away, were full of you, and welcomed

me as your son. The host, Easterbrook and his wife, were very full of

you : two fellows in the public-house were glorying in two books which

Iyou gave them the day you left. My mother, Lady Louisa, and E. L.,
were much talked of by men as well as women.             shall be in London
Ishortly, and shall ' tell ' to you, usque ad nauseam.
                                                         am as well as
Iever was in my life in health and spirits : quite strong and able to

I Iwalk stoutly twenty miles and more a day over the bogs and the rocks.
  need not say shall be careful. Early to bed and        to  rise  are now
my plan, and, indeed, a point of conscience with me                   "

   And now the Cholera was once more in England, and sanitary

matters absorbed him. He preached three striking sermons
at Eversley, on Cholera, " Who causes Pestilence " (published
together in 1854, with preface). He worked in London and
the country in the crusade against dirt and bad drainage. The

216 Charles Kingsley.

terrible revelations of the state of the Water supply in London
saddened and sickened him, and led to his writing an article in
the " North British Review " on the subject.* To this phase of
his life Dean Stanley eloquently points when in his funeral

sermon he says :

   " It was this sense that he was a thorough Englishman -- one of your
selves, working, toiling, feeling with you, and like you -- that endeared

him to you. Artisans and working men of London, you know how he

desired, with a passionate desire, that you should have pure air, pure

water, habitable dwellings, that you should be able to share the courtesies,

the refinements, the elevation of citizens, and of Englishmen ; and you

may, therefore, trust him the more when he told you from the pulpit, and

still tells you from the grave, that your homes              and  y"our  lives  should   be
no less full of moral purity and light

                          TO HIS WIFE.

                                                             Chelsea, October 24, 1849.
" I was yesterday with George Walsh and Mansfield over the cholera
.... Idistricts of Bermondsey ; and, oh, God ! what saw ! people having no

water to drink -- hundreds of them -- but the water of the common sewer
which stagnated full of   dead fish, cats and dogs, under their

windows. At the time the cholera was raging, Walsh saw them throwing

untold horrors into the ditch, and then dipping out the water and drink
             --Owhi,thshwohwomMrs.heWwaarrses"ta(ytihnegn),
ing  it ! !                                                  member for Ripon, a relative of
his  wife's                                                  " entreat him to read the account

of the place in the ' Morning Chronicle ' of last week, and try every

nerve to get a model lodging-house there ; why should people spend

money and time in making a play-thing model-parish of St. Barnabas,

where there are three rich to one poor, while whole square miles of other

parts of London are in the same state as two or three streets only of Upper

Chelsea ? And mind, these are not dirty, debauched Irish, but honest
hard-working artizans. It is most pathetic, as Walsh says, it makes him
literally cry --to see the poor souls' struggle for cleanliness, to see how

they scrub   and  polish   their little scrap of pavement, and           then   go through
the house    and          society" leaving at the back poisons           and    filth-- such
                  see "

as would drive a lady mad, I think, with disgust in twenty-four hours.
Oh, that I had the tongue of St. James, to plead for those poor fellows !
to tell what I saw myself, to stir up some rich men to go and rescue them

             * " Water Supply of London," published in the Miscellanies.

                      Bermondsey Horrors.    217

from the tyranny of the small shopkeeping landlords, who get their rents

out of the flesh and blood of these men. Talk of the horrors of ' the

middle passage.' Oh, that one-tenth part of the money which has been

spent in increasing, by mistaken benevolence, the cruelties of the slave-

trade, had been spent in buying up these nests of typhus, consumption,

and cholera, and rebuilding them into habitations fit--I do not say for
civilized Englishmen --that would be too much, but for hogs even. I

will say no more. Pray get Mr. Warre to stir, for remember it is not a

question of alms. It is only to get some man to take the trouble of

making a profitable investment, and getting six per cent, for his money.

I will put him in communication with those who know all the facts if

he will help us. Twenty pounds sent to us, just to start a water-cart,
and send it round at once -- at once -- for the people are still in these

horrors, would pay itself. I can find men who will work the thing.

Mr. Ludlow, Charles Mansfield, the two Campbells, will go and serve

out the water with their own hands, rather than let it go on. Pray, pray,

stir people   up, and God will reward you. Kiss my darlings for me.
             Do not let them wait for committee meetings and investigations;
   "P.S. --

while they will be maundering about ' vested interests,' and such like,
Ithe people are dying.
                            start to-morrow for Oxford to see the bishop

about these Bermondsey horrors, with a letter from Maurice. Direct to

me there. The proper account of Bermondsey is in the ' Morning

Chronicle ' of September 24, published a month ago, and yet nothing

done, or likely to be ! !"

...." I saw the bishop yesterday.         POWLES'S ROOMS, OXFORD.

                                       Most satisfactory interview.
I Iam more struck with him than with any man, except Bunsen, have

seen for a long time. Also Archdeacon        , disappointed, but in

terested me. Had no notion that such specimens of humanity were

still to be found walking about this nineteenth-century England. But he
...looks a good man.Kiss the babes for me. How I long for your dear
                        I expected a letter from you to-day, and some
face and voice.
money for the poor Bermondsey folks."

                      TO J. M. LUDLOW, ESQ.

"Mv FRIENDS,                EVERSLEY, Monday, November, 1849.

" Why tarry the wheels of your water-carts, why are your stand-
pipes truly stand-still pipes ? Why are you so confoundedly merciful

and tender-hearted ? Do you actually fancy that you can talk those

landlords into repentance ? Will men repent for being told ? are men

218 Charles Kingsiey.

capable of repentance who will go on doing what they have been doing ?
and is their interest changed by the fact of your wanting them to lay on

water ? and do you trust the water company ? You see they are trying,

to restrict not to extend.                  ist. To the Chairman of Ber-

   " You must go to the higher powers,

Ifmondsey Improvement Commission. Now, what is this Commission ?
By what authority does it pretend to act ?  it is one of the New Local

Commissions under the Health of Towns Act it can serve nuisance

notices, and make people obey them. Therefore the chairman is a

twaddler, if he only talks of wanting to do, what he can do if he likes.
Therefore find out whether a majority of these Commissioners will serve

nuisance notices, &c. 2. On whom. Whom does the ditch belong to ?
The Commissioners of Sewers or the Landlords ? Find out that and
tell me, and try for indicting the Commissioners of Sewers, whose names

I s"awNepxati.ntedJusutp.tell me what you have found out on these points, and
I will write to Lord Carlisle and Lord John Russell, as the Bishop of

Oxford told me, and ask for interviews. Find out, therefore, in

Iwalking home, whether Lord Carlisle and Lord John Russell are in
London, and if not, where?    write to Helps to-night.

"Lastly, have the pamphlets been sent round? People write that

they will help when they know either what is the matter or how to mend

I Iit. But that no pamphlets have come to them. When know that,

/will go to Farnham and see the Bishop of Winchester.   am ready.  Or
   " What has become of your public meeting plan ?
your placards? /am ready to write them. Now just give me an

answer, dear boys."

                            TO THE SAME.

" Dear Man,                                 Eversley, November I, 1849.

" All the plans are good ; tell me to do, and I will do it. In

the meantime return sermons (Cholera Sermons,) and they shall, three of
them, be peppered for London palates, and prepared for press.

  " I like Charles Mansfield's notion of a Sanitary League. It will act

like a wedge. Papers and preachments are 'as a man beholding his

natural face in a glass,' &c. Still, we'll try them ; tell me my work, and
II'll do it with God's help.
                              enclose a list of people to whom to send
I Ithe pamphlet, to those marked * will write also.
                                                        have written to

S. G. O. for a Times letter. Tom Taylor may help us in Punch.

   " I have a quarrel with the Pamphlet. It does not bring before the

eye the damning fact that that 'Chronicle' article came out a month ago,

A Sequel to Yeast.                                         219

and produced no effect, that Sept. 24 ought to have had a whole page
to itself, and a hundred notes of exclamation. Else folks say, ' Very

true, but no doubt the authorities are taking proper steps,' and so go on

rejoicing. Now, we want at once a short, pithy, stern, but not ferocious

statement, that nothing has been done, or will be done, and why not.

A plain avowal like Sam Weller's, ' Somebody must be whopped for this,'

and an attempt to define why. Else people will say, ' Why are you in

such a fuss or I ? You must prove to me that my money is wanted.'

Do"n'Wt iyllouyosuee,tryyofuordaeapruoblldic  fellow ?  ?  This Bermondsey case is only
                                               meeting

the experimentum cruris of a vast question, and shall men do what they
If Ilike with their own ? Mind.
                                              I begin and find it work, should try for
compulsory legislation for all Landlords. ' An ^Edile Bill.' . . . ."

TO THE SAME.

I I" sit down to answer your letter, which should have done long
ago, had I had common civility, but Yeast and Will. Willowwren have
Ikept my brains over-busy.
                                              want to talk to you about Yeast, and in

doing so consolidate my own notions on it. It is not going to die, but

re-appear under a different name and form, and in fresh scenes. Lancelot

is to be ruined, go up to London and turn artist. In Yeast, as its name

Iimplies, have tried to show the feelings which are working in the age,
Iin a fragmentary and turbid state. In the next part, ' The Artists,'

shall try to unravel the tangled skein, by means of conversations on Art,

connected as they will be necessarily with the deepest questions of

science, anthropology, social life, and Christianity. And looking at

the Art of a people as at once the very truest symbol of its faith, and a

vast means for its further education, I think it a good path in which to

form the mind of my hero, the man of the coming age. He, and his

friend Mellot, and his cousin Luke, who has just turned Romanist, will

be typical of the three great schools. Mellot of the mere classic Pagan,

and of the Fourierism which seems to me to be its representative in the

world of doctrines ; Luke of the Puginesque Manichaean, or exclusively

spiritual school, and Lancelot who tries historic painting, and finding

that there is nothing to paint about, falls back on landscapes and

animals, on the simple naturalism of our Landseers and Creswicks, the

only living school of art as yet possible in England. He is raised above

his mere faith in nature by the simple Christianity of Tregarva, at the

same time that he is taught by him that true democracy which considers

the beautiful the heritage of the poor as well as of the rich ; and Tregarva

in his turn becomes the type of English Art-hating Puritanism, gradually

220 Charles Kingsley.

convinced of the divine mission of Art, and of its being the rightful child,

not   of Popery, but   of Protestantism  alone.   on his own    naturalism,  the
                      Lancelot, having   grafted
   "  Thus, I think

Christianity of Tregarva, the classicism of Mellot, and the spiritual

symbolism of Luke, ought to be in a state to become the mesothetic

artist of the future, and beat each of his tutors at their own weapons, as

the mesothet will always include a perfect each of the poles connected

with it.

   "But where will Argemone be all this time? You have your fears

I(in which sympathize) that she will be too like Lancelot: but I cannot

help exhibiting in her the same restlessness and dissatisfaction with the

Ipresent, as in him, because see it equally common now-a-days in both
Isexes, and take it as the painful, yet most hopeful, sign of the times.

There will still be a true polarity (a merely sexual one, being both ideals

without any strongly-marked peculiarities) between her and her lover.

She will retain the virginal purity, the conscientious earnestness of will,

the strong conservative ecclesiastical prejudices, which go to make the

ideal Englishwoman. She will be his complementum, and consider on

the ground of the affections, the same questions which he is examining

on the ground of the intellect. She must be educating her head through

her heart, he his heart through his head. She as heiress of Whitford

must try all sorts of accredited methods for its improvement, and find

them all fail, because unconnected with the great principles which God

is manifesting in this age ; and then when the lovers are at last united,

and Whitford becomes their work-field, he will supply her with social

and anthropological principles on which to base her labours, and she

will translate his theories for him into objects of passionate enthusiasm

Ito be embodied in the charities of daily life. And so think the two

may become an ideal pair of pioneers toward the society of the future,

the BToixtta of which will be given in a third and last volume, to be
written -- when ?
" This is a long preface. Whether I shall be able to fulfil my
Idesign remains to be proved. Perhaps
                                                    am aiming at too much,
perhaps I am meddling with matters I don't understand. But if one

needs must go when the devil drives, how much more when One very
different from him impels one to speak at all costs ? And after all, ' it
Ishall
      be given  you in that  hour  what  ye  shall  speak    '  and  am in no
                                                           ;
hurry, -- five years will not be too long to occupy in working out the plan,
Iand want, when Yeast, and ' the Artists ' have appeared in Frazer's,

to take them out, work them over and enlarge them, and then take my

time over the last or positive volume. So ends a long letter all about

myself. When will you come and see me ? . . . ."

                              Cobderis Freehold Land Scheme.                                                       221

                              TO THOMAS COOPER.

                                                                 Eversley, December 6, 1849.

I" ought to have written to you some time ago, to thank you for

your kind promise of enlightening me on the history of Chartism, which

I hope to reclaim when I come to London next. I deeply feel this proof

of confidence, and you will not find me unworthy of                                                  hear of you
                              I
                                           I it

                                                   I
                                                                                                it.
                                                                      I
from time to time as busily at work, and am myself busy enough, very

much with the same object as yours, though with somewhat different
                              find the good cause living and growing fast--
tools and materials.

slowly enough, God knows, for all the evils which have to be removed
                                                                                                                   !' a
but wonderfully fast, considering the mountains of prejudice, selfishness,
                                                                                                                                 :
covetousness, and humbug, which has to dig through. On one point

  am a little pained and startled -- mean Mr. Cobden's Freehold Land
Society speech. It seems to me that he openly avows the intention of
I

                      a
setting up number of small absentee proprietors, resident in towns, and

holding land in the country. Now would be just as glad to see non
                              '

                                                'I
                                                                              a

                                                                 II

                                                                                                                '
resident 40J-. freeholder in the pillory, as non-resident 40,000/. one.
And honestly declare, that the worst cases of tyranny, of neglect of
      I

property, and high rents taken for man-styes,' which see, are on these

little freeholds of poor landlords, who run up houses anyhow, to make
the ground pay. A poor man who oppresses the poor,' says Solomon,
                                                                                                                                  It
'     like a sweeping rain that leaveth no good,' and say, true

  is

does seem to me that this project would thus increase one of the very

evils which has pressed on the working man, and made his dwellings

unfit for human habitation and fear, too, that the greater part of these
                              a

                                  I;
                                         I

                                               I
                                                    I
                                                       I
                                                               iIf a
freeholds would become the property, not of workmen, but small retail
tradesmen -- class, which, as you and know, are a curse to the work
I
man. Pray enlighten me on these points.  am quite open to convic
   I I if
tion                       amy fears are unfounded.                   Working Man's
      must congratulate you on the noble bequest for
   "

Hall, Museum, etc., which hear you announced lately in John Street.
May ask for further particulars on the subject, for                   could be of any

assistance in organizing or adding to any part of the museum, or what

long especially for, Gallery of works of art, shall be delighted to

make myself of use."

                              TO M. LUDLOW, ESQ.
                              J.

"I am shamed and sickened          Eversley, Sunday, December 30, 1849.
                                  by the revelations in your article in

Fraser's they were new to me except about the tailors. How to thank
'
                    ;'

222 Charles Kingsley.

Iyou for your article know not, except by intreating you to put by my

pamphlet and write one yourself; you would do it seven times as well.

I send you up the rest of the MSS. ; but they are not worthy of the

cause. Perhaps you might make something of them by doctoring ; but
I cannot speak about Association ; it is our only hope, but I know
Ifnothing about or about anything else.
               it,                              had not had the com

                             I
                                             I
munion at Church to-day, to tell me that Jesus does reign, should
have blasphemed in my heart, think, and said the Devil king    is
" come up Tuesday, and will see you at your rooms.
                                                                 II
                                                                                !

                                                                           '

                                                                                      a
I                                                                 have

wild longing to do something. What -- God only knows. You say, He

that believeth will not make haste but think he that believeth must
                   I

                        !
                           '

                                                  ;'

                                          I
                                                  I
make haste. But will do anything that anybody likes.           I  have no

confidence in myself, or in anything but God.         am not great enough

for such times, alas ne pour faire des vers,' as Camille Desmoulins

said."

                                                       Eversley, Friday, December, 1S49.

"I have an old 'crow to pick with you' about my hero Rajah

Brooke and my spirit stirred within me this morning by seeing that
it                    if is is
    is
                                it
                ;                   is it

               it

                II
the press are keeping up the attack on him for the Borneo business.
Ifsay at once that think he was utterly right and righteous.      I
Ifbeen in his place would have done the same.                        had
                                                                      II
                                                      is it    to do again,
                                                           is
trust he will have courage to do again. But, thank God, just because

       done will not have to be done again. The truest benevolence           is

occasional severity. It expedient that one man die for the people.

One tribe exterminated, need be, to save a whole continent. 'Sacrifice
                                           human life. It beast-life. These
of human life  ?'  Prove that

Dyaks have put on the image of the beast, and they must take the con
sequence. 'Value of life?' Oh, Ludlow, read history; look at the

world, and see whether God values mere physical existence. Look at

the millions who fall in war the mere fact that savage races, though
                      ;

they breed like rabbits, never increase in number and then, beware
                                                      ?;
lest you reproach your Maker. Christ died for them Yes, and He died
for the whole creation as well -- the whole world, Ludlow --for the sheep

you eat, the million animalcules which the whale swallows at every gape.

They shall all be hereafter delivered into the glorious liberty of the
children of God but, as yet, just consider the mere fact of beasts of
               ;
prey, the countless destruction which has been going on for ages anda

ages, long before Adam's fall, and then consider. Physical death no
                                                                  is

evil. It may be       blessing to the survivors. Else, why pestilence,

famine, Cromwell and Perrot in Ireland, Charlemagne hanging 4000

           Rajah Brooke's Policy.                                    223

righteous judgments ? Do you believe in the Old Testament ? Surely
Ifthen, say, what does that destruction of the Canaanites mean ?
Ifwas right, Rajah Brooke was right.                                 it

                                      he be wrong, then Moses, Joshua,
IDavid, were wrong. No ! say. Because Christ's kingdom is a king

dom of peace ; because the meek alone shall inherit the earth, therefore,

you Malays and Dyaks of Sarawak, you also are enemies to peace.
' Your feet swift to shed blood, the poison of asps under your lips ; ' you

who have been warned, reasoned with ; who have seen, in the case of the

surrounding nations, the strength and happiness which peace gives, and

will not repent, but remain still murderers and beasts of prey. You are

Ithe enemies of Christ, the Prince of peace ; you are beasts, all the more
dangerous, because you have a semi-human cunning.  will, like David,

' hate you with a perfect hatred, even as though you were my enemies.'

I Iwill blast you out with grape and rockets, ' will beat you as small as

the dust before the wind.' You, ' the strange children that dissemble

with me, shall fail,' and be exterminated, and be afraid out of your infernal
Iriver-forts, as the old Canaanites were out of their hill-castles.
                                                                     say,

honour to a man, who, amid all the floods of sentimental coward cant,

which by some sudden revulsion may, and I fear will, become coward

cruelty, dares act manfully on the broad sense of right, as Rajah

Brooke is doing. Oh, Ludlow, recollect how before the '89, men were

maundering about universal peace and philanthropy, too loving to hate

God's enemies, too indulgent to punish sin. Recollect how Robespierre

began by refusing, on conscientious principles, to assist at the punish
ment of death ! Just read, read the last three chapters of the Revelations,
and then say, whether these same organs of destructiveness and com-

bativeness, which we now-a-days, in our Manichasism, consider as the

devil's creation, may not be part of the image of God, and Christ the

Son of God, to be used in His service and to His glory, just as much as
Iour benevolence or our veneration. Consider --and the Lord give thee
grace to judge what I say.  may be wrong. But He will teach us
Iboth ; and show this to Maurice, and ask him if am altogether a fiend

therein."

                                                                        Eversley, December, 1849.

  I" agree with every word of your letter, and have done so for

some time. But it seems to me that you are justifying my friend

Rajah Brooke (an intimate friend of whose I have been seeing lately,

Iand hearing things which make me love the Rajah more and more).

think the preserving that great line of coast from horrible outrage, by

destroying the pirate fleet, was loving his neighbour as himself, and
taking the blood-money -- not to spend on himself (for he spends nothing

224 Charles Kingsley.

on himself), but to use in civilizing the wretched people whom these
pirates have been butchering for centuries -- was right.

"Borrow or buy the 'Morning Chronicle' articles, and send me
Ithem, and will reimburse you ; at least send me the Tailor one by
I Ireturn of post.
will come up after Christmas and help.  am going

to-day to meet Tennyson."

   At this period many young men from Oxford and elsewhere
gathered round him. The following letter from one of them,
Mr. C. Kegan Paul, speaks for itself of the life at Eversley, which

had become a centre to so many enquiring spirits.

    " It is a sad pleasure to me to recall at your wish the particulars of

Imy friendship with your husband, during the many years of which

have only to think of one long series of kindnesses, and more than

brotherly affection, unbroken by the smallest misunderstanding, even

I Iwhen came in some degree to differ from him from whom had learnt

so much.

   "You wish me to write my recollections, especially of the life at

Eversley in those old days during which many came and went, a band
of friends now dispersed, and of whom some are gone with him into

the shadowy land.

                                               ' Die Einen, sie weinen,
                                           Die Andern, sie wandern,
                                                 Die Dritten noch mitten
                                               Im wechsel der Zeit ;
                                                 Auch Viele am Ziele,
                                                 Zu den Todten entboten,
                                                 Verdorben, gestorben,

                                          In Lust und in Leid.'

  I" I will put on paper what can, and you will use as much or as little

Ias "youfirpslteassaew. Charles Kingsley in Oxford, in the spring term of 1848.

He had just published the ' Saint's Tragedy,' and came up to stay with
his old schoolfellow, Cowley Powles, one of our Exeter tutors. He

had not, I think, the least notion he would find himself famous, but he

was so among a not inconsiderable section of young Oxford, even one
month after the drama had appeared. A large number of us were
thoroughly dissatisfied with the high-church teaching, which then was
that of most earnest tutors in Oxford. There were, indeed, some
noble exceptions, -- Jowett of Balliol, Powles of Exeter, Congreve of
Wadham, Stanley of University, Clough of Oriel. But they were scat-

                  Letter from C. Kcgan Paul.                                                225

tered, and their influence was over men here and there ; the high-
churchmen held the mass of intelligent young men, many of whom

revolted in spirit, yet had not found a leader. Here was a book which

showed that there was poetry also in the strife against asceticism, whose

manly preface was as stirring as the verse it heralded. We looked at

its author with the deepest interest ; it was a privilege to have been in

the room with him ; but my acquaintance with him was necessarily of

the"  slightest.  summer  of  the  following year, H. Percy Smith,                       of Balliol,

      In the

who also had met Kingsley and taken a walk with him during that

memorable Oxford visit, went to Eversley as curate, and almost as soon

as he was settled, invited me to stay with him in his lodgings, about

half a mile from the Rectory. The day after my arrival we dined at

the Rectory. You were then using as a dining-room the larger room

which afterwards was your drawing-room, and were alone ; Percy and I

were the only guests. We went into the study afterwards while

Kingsley smoked his pipe, and the evening is one of those that stand

out in my memory with peculiar vividness. I had never then, I have

seld"oKmingssinlecey,'shecaorndvearsmataionnatal lk   so well.  were  very  remarkable.  In the
                                                     powers

first place he had, as may be easily understood by the readers of his

books, a rare command of racy and correct English, while he was so

many sided that he could take keen interest in almost any subject

which attracted those about him. He had read, and read much, not

only in matters which every one ought to know, but had gone deeply

into many out-of-the-way and unexpected studies. Old medicine,

magic, the occult properties of plants, folk-lore, mesmerism, nooks and

bye-ways of history, old legends ; on all these he was at home. On

the habits and dispositions of animals he would talk as though he were

that king in the Arabian Nights who understood the language of

beasts, or at least had lived among the gipsies who loved him so

well. The stammer, which in those days was so much more marked

than in later years, and which was a serious discomfort to himself, was

no drawback to the charm of his conversation. Rather the hesitation

before some brilliant flash of words served to lend point to and intensify

what he was saying ; and when, as he sometimes did, he fell into a

monologue, or recited a poem in his sonorous voice, the stammer left

him wholly, as it did when he read or preached in church.

  " When, however, I use the word monologue, it must not be

supposed that he ever monopolized the talk. He had a courteous
deference for the opinions of the most insignificant person in the circle,

and was even too tolerant of a bore. With all his vast powers of

      VOL. i.                                                                            Q

226 Charles Kingsley.

conversation, and ready to talk on every or any subject, he was never

superficial. What he knew he knew well, and was always ready to

admit the fact when he did not know.
    " The morning after that evening in the study, came a note to me

dated, ' Bed this morning,' inviting me to breakfast, and to transfer my
goods from the village public-house -- Percy Smith had no spare bed
room -- to the Rectory. I did so, and this was the first of many visits,
each one of increasing intimacy and pleasure. I cannot do better than
Iexpand some notes of those visits, which
                                                         sent to the ' Examiner'
newspaper, in the week which followed Kingsley's death last year :--
" ' To those who, in the years of which we speak, were constant

guests at Eversley, that happy home can never be forgotten. Kingsley
was in the vigour of his manhood and of his intellectual powers, was

administering his parish with enthusiasm, was writing, reading, fishing,

walking, preaching, talking, with a twenty-parson power, but was at the

same time wholly unlike the ordinary and conventional parson.
   " ' The picturesque bow-windowed Rectory rises to memory as it

stood with all its doors and windows open on certain hot summer days,

the sloping bank with its great fir-tree, the garden -- a gravel sweep

before the drawing-room and dining-rooms, a glass-plat before the study,

hedged off from the walk-- and the tall active figure of the Rector
tramping up and down one or the other. His energy made him seem

everywhere, and to pervade every part of house and garden. The MS.

of the book he was writing lay open on a rough standing desk, which
was merely a shelf projecting from the wall ; his pupils -- two in number,
and treated like his own sons --were working in the dining-room ; his

guests perhaps lounging on the lawn, or reading in the study. And he

had time for all, going from writing to lecturing on optics, or to a

passage in Virgil, from this to a vehement conversation with a guest, or
tender care for his wife -- who was far from strong -- or a romp with his
children. He would work himself into a sort of white heat over his

book, till, too excited to write more, he would calm himself down by a

pipe, pacing his grass-plat in thought and with long strides. He was a

great smoker, and tobacco was to him a needful sedative. He always
used a long and clean clay pipe, which lurked in all sorts of unexpected

places. But none was ever smoked which was in any degree foul, and
when there was a vast accumulation of old pipes, they were sent back

again to the kiln to be rebaked, and returned fresh and new. This
                                    in " Alton Locke," he
gave him a striking simile, which,  " Katie here believes                       puts into the
mouth of James Crossthwaite.                                                    in Purgatory,

wh"erWe hseonulsluanrcehebounrntwcalseaonvearg, aainn,d  like 'bacca pipes." '  morning's  work
                                                           any arrears of the

         His Abounding Humour.                                  227

cleared up, a walk with Kingsley was an occasion of constant pleasure.
His delight in every fresh or known bit of scenery was most keen, and
his knowledge of animal life invested the walk with singular novelty

even to those who were already country bred. I remember standing on

the top of a hill with him when the autumn evening was fading, and one
of the sun's latest rays struck a patch on the moor, bringing out a very
peculiar mixture of red-brown colours. What were the precise plants
which composed that patch ? He hurriedly ran over the list of what he

thought they were, and then set off over hedge and ditch, through bog

and water-course, to verify the list he had already made.

   "During these afternoon walks he would visit one or another of his

very scattered hamlets or single cottages on the heaths. Those who
have read ' My Winter Garden,' in the ' Miscellanies,' know how he

loved the moor under all its aspects, and the great groves of firs.
Nothing was ever more real than Kingsley's parish visiting. He believed
absolutely in the message he bore to the poor, and the health his

ministrations conveyed to their souls, but he was at the same time a
Izealous sanitary reformer, and cared for their bodies also.
                                                                was with

him once when he visited a sick man suffering from fever. The atmos

phere of the little ground-floor bed-room was horrible, but before the
Rector said a word he ran up-stairs, and, to the great astonishment of

the inhabitants of the cottage, bored, with a large auger he had brought

with him, several holes above the bed's head for ventilation.   His

reading in the sick room and his words were wholly free from cant.

The Psalms and the Prophets, with judicious omissions, seemed to gain

new meaning as he read them, and his after-words were always cheerful

and hopeful. Sickness, in his eyes, seemed always to sanctify and

purify.  He would say, with the utmost modesty, that the patient

endurance of the poor taught him day by day lessons which he took

back again as God's message to the bed-side from which he had learnt

the"mO. ne great element of success in his intercourse with his parishioners

was his abounding humour and fun. What caused a hearty laugh was a

real refreshment to him, and he had the strongest belief that laughter

and"  humour were elements in  the  nature of  God    Himself.  Not so with
                               has  with some   its  dangers.
      This abounding humour

Kingsley. No man loved a good story better than he, but there was
always in what he told or what he suffered himself to hear, a good and

pure moral underlying what might be coarse in expression. While he
would laugh with the keenest sense of amusement at what might be
simply broad, he had the most utter scorn and loathing for all that could
debase and degrade. And he was the most reverent of men, though

228 Charles Kings ley.

he would say things which seemed daring because people were unac
customed to hear sacred things named without a pious snuffle. This
great reverence led him to be even unjust to some of the greatest

humourists. I quoted Heine one day at his table. ' Who was Heine ? '
asked his little daughter. ' A wicked man, my dear,' was the only

answer   given to her,        and an implied rebuke      to me.                 a  ' cottage  lecture  '  or
          the week-day         evenings he frequently     held
   " On

short service in a cottage, for the old and feeble who lived at a distance

from church. To this he would sally forth in a fisherman's knitted

blo"usOeldif  the  night were wet or  cold.        as he grew famous -- not too
              and  new friends came   and went     days -- and the drawing-room

strong a word for the feeling of those

evening conversations and readings, the tobacco parliaments later into

the night, included many of the most remarkable persons of the day.

  I" do not give any recollections of those conversations, partly

because it would be difficult to do so without giving names which I

have no right here to introduce, and partly because his opinions on all

subjects will be amply illustrated in his own words from letters to many

Iwho sought his advice. But know that those evening talks kept more

than one who shared in them from Rome, and weaned more than one

from vice, while others had doubts to faith removed which had long

par"alIytzewdouthlde  energy  of their lives.  to  pass  over                   the  fact     that  it was
                      not be
                              right, however,

through his advice, and mainly in consequence of the aid he gave me,

that I was myself enabled to take orders. You know that I have again

become a layman, but though my views have greatly developed from

II Ithose held twenty-three years ago, do not regret that then was

encouraged to become a clergyman. Kingsley enabled me to dismiss at
once and for ever all faith whatever in the popular doctrine of eternal
punishment, and all the whole class of dogmas which tend to confuse

the"  characters of   God and the Devil.           when  Kingsley remained                             shut
      A day rises     vividly to memory,

up in the study during the afternoon, the door bolted, inaccessible

to all interruption. The drowsy hour had come on between the

lights, when it was time to dress for dinner, and talk, without the

great inspirer of was growing disjointed and fragmentary, when he
'

        I
                      '
                        it,
                                                                            in
came in from the study, a paper, yet undried,                                   his hand, and read us

the Lay of the Last Buccaneer,' most spirited of all his ballads. One

who had been lying back in an arm-chair, known for its seductive

properties as sleepy hollow,' roused up then, and could hardly sleep

all night for the inspiring music of the words read by one of the very

best readers have ever heard.

                             Accuracy in Detail.                                229

I" It was my good fortune to be staying with you through the summer
in which the greater part of ' Hypatia ' was written.              was especially

struck not only with his power of work, but with the extraordinary pains

he took to be accurate in detail. We spent one whole day in searching

the four folio volumes of Synesius for a fact he thought was there, and

which was found there at last. The hard reading he had undergone for

that book alone would furnish an answer to some who thought him

sup"eOrfitchiaelr.s will write better than I of his work in the parish generally,

and   of  his theology.  in  the  country it is  still the custom  to  perform  part
      In  some places
   "

of the marriage service in the body of the church, and then proceed

Ito the chancel. So it had always been in the Oxfordshire parish to

which was appointed. Kingsley told with infinite delight how a

curate at or near Bideford had tried to introduce the practice, and how
the Devon clerk protested, saying, ' First he went up the church, and

then he went down the church, side-a-ways, here-a-ways, and theer-a-
ways, a scrattlin' like a crab.'

  "His sermons were full of most tender care for individual cases

known only to himself. When he was most impressive and pathetic it
was generally because his sermon touched the sorrow of some one in the

Icongregation, though the words seemed general. Once, when was

to preach for him, he asked me to let him look at two or three MS.

Isermons had with me. He read them carefully, and selected one, not

by any means the best written. ' Preach that, Charles ; there is a poor
soul who will be in church whose sins it may touch, and whose sorrows

it may heal. God help us all.'

  I" In the summer of 1851, travelled from Reading to London with

Miss Mitford, who did not then know Kingsley, though afterwards they

became very good friends. She said she had driven by Eversley church

yard a few days before, and had seen Kingsley reading the funeral

service ; that he looked quite what she should have expected, ' a pale
Istudent.'
            need hardly say she had seen his curate, and that Kingsley

was as unlike a pale student as any man who ever lived. His tempera

ment was artistic and impulsive. He delighted in out-door life, in sport,

in nature in all her moods and phases. His physical frame was power

ful and wiry, his complexion dark, his eye bright and piercing. Yet he

often said he did not think that his would be a long life, and the event

has"  sadly confirmed    his anticipations.      was  one  which       left me scant
                         as Master in College
      My life at Eton

time for visits to Eversley. But my rare interviews with Kingsley,
I Iwhen
          snatched a day to drive over, were always full of delight.

230 Cliarles Kingsley.

often consulted him about professional difficulties, and found his insight

into school-boy life most remarkable, and his sympathy with the young
unflagging. He spent one day only with us at Eton in those eight

Iyears, but remember his delight in a row on the river, visiting the

boy"s'Cabmatbhriindgge,plaincedse.ed, in those years was more accessible than Eversley,

and that again would furnish me with somewhat to say, did not others

Iknow that portion of the life better than I. was staying at Cambridge

at the time of the Prince Consort's death, and remember how he was

affected by as at the loss of personal friend.
            it,                                                 walked over the
                                              a

                                                       I
                                                            I
next day to Maddingly with Kingsley, who wished to hear Windsor news

from some of the suite, and met, on the way, more than one of the

specially chosen young associates of the Prince of Wales.           can never

forget, nor probably will those who were addressed forget, the earnest,

solemn, and agitated tones in which he spoke of the Prince Consort's

care for his son, and the duty which lay on them, the Prince of Wales's

young friends, to see that they did all in their power to enforce the wise

cou"nMseyl  of him who was dead.        yet  further  sundered  us  in person,  but
            removal into Dorset

never in heart. When we met from time to time, his cordial grasp said

mo"reCothmaningworodnsceto  assure  me  of the old brotherly  affection.  the   old
                            more    to  live in London,        hoped for
              II
                      a
                                               it
                                                  I
                                                              I
                                                             I
                                                                                                                a
unrestricted intimacy once again. It was not so to be.                    saw him,

and saw him only but once, enough to notice that he was sorely

changed in body, which, though far from puny, was fretted away by
his fiery spirit. And when they laid him to rest, in Eversley church

yard, near the graves where some whom he loved repose, and where the

shadow of the great Scotch fir lies each summer afternoon, could stand

by his grave only in thought. But will ever have associations of the most

solemn kind.  am among those many who can never forget that, widely

as they have differed from Charles Kingsley, and that, whatever were his

failings and incompletenesses, his was just that one influence which, at

time they needed guide, roused them to live manly lives, and play
their parts in the stir of the world, while to me he was the noblest, truest,

kindest friend ever had or can hope to have."

                  CHAPTER IX.

                                      1850-- 1851.

                                                    Aged 31, 32.

RESIGNS THE OFFICE OF CI.ERK IN ORDERS AT CHELSEA --PUPIL LIFE AT
      EVERSLEY -- PUBLICATION OF "ALTON LOCKE" -- LETTERS FROM MR. CAR-
     I.YLE-- WRITES FOR "CHRISTIAN SOCIALIST" --TROUBLED STATE OF THE
     COUNTRY--Burglaries --THE RECTORY ATTACKED-- CORRESPONDENCE ON
      THE ROMISH QUESTION.

  "A lynx-eyed fiery man, with the spirit of an old knight in him ; more of a hero

than any modern I have seen for a long time. A singular veracity one finds in him ;
not in his words alone, which, however, I like much for their fine rough naivete ; but

in his actions, judgments, aims ; in all that he thinks, and does, and says-- which

indeed I have observed is the root of all greatness or real worth in human creatures,

and properly the first  (and  also  the  rarest)  attribute of what we call GENUS among
men. "

                                                  T. Carlvi.E, on Sir Charles Napier.

                      CHAPTER IX.

  The year 1850 was spent by the Rector of Eversley at home,

in better health, with still fuller employment ; for in addition to
parish and writing, he had the work of teaching a private pupil,
which was quite new to him. Times were bad, rates were high,
rate-payers discontented, and all classes felt the pressure. The
Rector felt it also, but he met it by giving the tenants back
ten per cent, on their tithe payments, and thus at once and for
ever he won their confidence.

   He had, since his marriage, held the office of Clerk in Orders
in his father's parish of St. Luke's, Chelsea, which added con
siderably to his income, and in those days was not considered
incompatible with non-residence; but though his deputy was well
paid, and he himself occasionally preached and lectured in

Chelsea, he looked upon the post as a sinecure, and so he resigned

it. The loss of income must however be met, and this could
only be done by his pen. It was a heavy struggle just then, with

Rector's Poor's Rates at £ 1 50 per annum, and the parish charities

mainly dependent on him ; but he set to work with indomitable

industry, and by a great effort finished "Alton Locke." It was

a busy winter, for the literary work was not allowed to interfere
with the pupil work, or either with the parish ; he got up at five
every morning, and wrote till breakfast ; after breakfast he worked
with his pupil and at his sermons ; the afternoons were devoted
as usual to cottage visiting ; the evenings to adult school and
superintending the fair copy of " Alton Locke " made by his wife

for the press. It was the only book of which he ever had a fair
copy made. His habit was thoroughly to master his subject,

whether book or sermon, always out in the open air, in his
garden, on the moor, or by the side of a lonely trout stream,

234 Charles Kingsley.

and never to put pen to paper till the ideas were clothed in
words ; and these, except in the case of poetry, he seldom
altered. For many years his writing was all done by his wife
from his dictation, while he paced up and down the room.

   When " Alton Locke " was completed, the difficulty was to
find a publisher : Messrs. Parker, who had, or thought they had,
suffered in reputation for publishing " Yeast " in the pages of
Fraser, and " Politics for the People," refused the book ; and
Mr. Carlyle kindly gave the author an introduction to Messrs.
Chapman & Hall, who, on the strength of his recommendation,
undertook to bring it out.

  I" have written to Chapman," says Mr. Carlyle, " and you shall
Ihave his answer, on Sunday, if it come within post hours to-morrow ; if
Inot then on Tuesday. But without any answer, believe may already

assure you of a respectful welcome, and the new novel of a careful and
hopeful examination from the man of books. He is sworn to secrecy
too. This is all the needful to-day, -- in such an unspeakable hurry as

this present.

   " And so, right glad myself to hear of a new explosion, or salvo of
red-hot shot against the Devil's Dung-heap, from that particular battery,

                                        I" remain,

                                                              " Yours always truly,

                                                                "T. Carlyle."

   The spread of infidel opinions among the working classes and
the necessity of meeting them, continually occupied him, and he

writes to his friend Mr. Ludlow,

" But there is something else which weighs awfully on my mind,-- the

first number of Cooper's Journal, which he sent me the other day.

Here is a man of immense influence, openly preaching Straussism to

the workmen, and in a fair, honest, manly way, which must tell. Who

will answer him ? Who will answer Strauss ? Who will denounce Strauss
as a vile aristocrat, robbing the poor man of his Saviour -- of the ground
of all democracy, all freedom, all association -- of the Charter itself?
...IfOh si mihi centum voces et ferrea lingua. Think about that--talk to
Maurice about that. To me it is awfully pressing.  the priests of the
Lord are wanting to the cause now !-- woe to us !
                                                   .

                       A New Penny Periodical.                                                       235

     "Don't fire at me about smoking. I do                                because                 does me
I

                 a

            I
                              I
                                                       iIf it,
                                                             II

                                                                                              it
good, and could not (for have tried again and again) do without it.
smoke the very cheapest tobacco. In the meantime am keeping no
horse -- most real self-sacrifice to me. But
                                                                          did, should have so

much the less to give to the poor. God knows all about that, John

Ludlow, and about other things too."

                                         TO THE SAME.

                                                        Eversley, February 13, 850.
                                                    shows me that you have the
     " Your letter delights me, because                                              if
                                         is                                                     1

                                            I

                                                 itI
same idea of the paper as have.                       believe firmly that we know

better why brotherhood                   the ideal, we ought to be more ready to act

on than these poor fellows, and not be narrower and less believing
     it

than them by saying with the sects, You are not our brothers unless youif
know why -- as a man was not his father's son till he had found his
father. Rather, in theology, as in the world, ICs wise child that knows
                                                      '

                                                               a

its  aiun  father?
           for the
     " As           subjects.            It seems to me that, to spread the paper, you

must touch the workman at all his points of interest. First and fore

most at Association but also at political rights as grounded both on the
Christian ideal of the Church and on the historic facts of the Anglo-Saxon
     ;
                                      ;
race then National Education, Sanitary and Dwelling-house Reform,

the Free Sale of Land, and corresponding Reform of the Land- Laws,

moral improvement of the Family relation, public places of Recreation (on
which point am very earnest) and think set of hints from History,
and sayings of great men, of which last have been picking up from
Demosthenes, Plato, &c. In fact, our journal must do all that T.
                I                           ;

                                                  I
                                                        I

                                                                       a

Cooper and Eliza Cook, &c., want to do and can't. We must even try

to beat out of the field that harmless, and enormously read Family                                '

Fri"enBdo.y' ne-water day to-day         !!     glorious day -- and what Psalms                      this
                                            !
morning Omen accipio lubens                    "
                                            !
             !

     " Up till one this morning, keeping                                          June, 1850.

                                                      great flood out -- amid such
                                            I

                                                      '
                                                               a

                                                       I
lightning and rain as think never saw before up to my knees in
                       a                                                  ;

                        I                                                        is
water, working with pickaxe by candle-light to break holes in the wall,

to prevent all being washed              away. Luckily my garden                     saved. But      I it
all goes with me under the
                                         head of fun.' Something to                  do --and light

ning     is  my highest physical enjoyment.                               should like to have my

thunderstorm daily, as one has one's dinner. What providence
                                                                          a

236 Charles Kingsley.

did not go to town last night.  My man was gone home, and we should
have had the garden ruined,     and the women frightened out of their
wits."

    Before the new penny periodical was set on foot the writers
for " Politics " brought out a series of tracts, " On Christian
Socialism." Among the most remarkable was " Cheap Clothes,
and Nasty," by Parson Lot,* exposing the slop-selling system,

which was at the root of much of the distress in London and
the great towns. The Tailors' Association was formed, and a
shop opened in Castle Street, to which the publication of " Cheap

Clothes" took many customers ; and, in June, a friend writes to

Mrs. Kingsley from London :--

"... Three copies of 'Cheap Clothes, and Nasty' are lying on the

Guards' Club   table ! Percy Feilding (Captain in   the  Guards) went to
Castle Street                                      men   at dinner yester
               and ordered a coat, and I met two

day with Castle Street coats on."

   In August the Rectory party had an addition, Mr. Lees, a
young Cambridge man arriving for three months to read for
Holy Orders. It was a bold step in those days for any man to
take, to read divinity with the author of "Yeast" and "Alton

Locke," but after twenty-six years' ministry in the Church, he

looks back to it as a time not only of enjoyment, but of profit.
   With this pupil he read Strauss's " Leben Jesu," of which an

English translation had just been published. He considered
Strauss, as he considered Comte eighteen years later, the great
false prophet of the day, who must be faced and fought

against by the clergy.
   To another candidate for Holy Orders, who wrote to him at

that time, he replies :--

                  TO C. KEGAN PAUL, Esq.

" You wish to know what to read for Orders? That depends on
Ifwhat you mean.
                  to get through a Bishop's examination, just ask any

one who has been lately ordained what he crammed ; and cram that,

which may take you some six weeks, and no trouble.

               Now republished in a new edition of " Alton Locke."

         Letter from Rev. H. Percy Smith.               237

   " But if you want to be of any use, I should advise you, if you can,

which all men cannot, to sit down and read your Bible honestly, and
let it tell you its own story, utterly careless of any theories, High

Church or Puritan, which have been put into the text first, and then

found there by their own insertors.
    " For instance : read the Pentateuch and the books of Samuel and

Kings ; Isaiah in Lowth's and the minor prophets in Newcome's trans

lation ; the Gospels from Alford's new text, and the Epistles by the

light of your own common sense and honest scholarship.  Believe

that if TTOVS means a foot in profane Greek, it will most likely mean a

foot also in ecclesiastical Greek, and avoid the popular belief that the

Apostles write barbarisms, whenever their words cannot be made to

square at first sight with Laud or Calvin.
   " For books : Kitto's ' Encyclopaedia of Biblical Literature ' will tell

you all that is known of Bible history and antiquities ;* and for doctrine,

I advise you to read Maurice's ' Kingdom of Christ,' ' Christmas Day

and other sermons,' and his new edition of the ' Moral and Metaphysical

Philosophy.'

   " Thus much now, but if you will ask me questions from time to

time, I will tell you all I know, if you think my knowledge worth

having. Never think of bothering me. It is a delight to me to give
hints to anyone whom I can ever so little put forward in these confused

times."

   Of the influence he exercised and the affection he woke up in

the young men who surrounded him at that time, his first
curate's own glowing, loving words must tell.

                REV. H. PERCY SMITH, TO MRS. KINGSLEY.

                                                                                           BARTON VICARAGE, 1875.

          " Everyone knows what it is to read his thoughts : full, powerful,
clear, like a mountain stream. But few, comparatively, know what it
was to hear them, fresh and glowing ; by the hour together to walk with
him, or ride, or sit by the fire, or lie on that dear lawn, looking up into
the sky and clouds, and hear those wonderful outpourings on every
possible subject, as he travelled from one to another, speaking of deeper
things with an intense profound reverence, and lighting up the most
trivial matters as genius only can ; always full to overflowing with geni
ality and kindness ; and often so unutterably droll.

   * It must be remembered that this was in 1850, before the "Dictionary of the
Bible," &c., &c., were published.

238 Charles Kingsley.

   '- What wonderful talks they were ! In those days there were many
matters -- as there must be at all times -- about which the Church and

country were profoundly anxious, and upon these and the various ways
of looking at them, he would ' think aloud ' continually as we were
together. How earnest and bold was the faith with which he would
look into the future ! Yet with what tender anxiety, lest he should

startle or even disturb his companion, who might not be able to see so

Iclearly or so far, or might perhaps misapprehend his meaning. As
I Iwatched this, used to say to myself, ' Never in anyone have seen

such honesty of thought -- such freedom from prejudice, from verbal
carelessness or confusion, and from selfishness. Never in any one have

I seen so intense and pure a desire to see things exactly as they are,

and as God sees them.'
   " As to religious matters, you might very often have imagined him
absolutely unaware of all the strife, parties, names, and watchwords.
With him it would have been too completely realised and common-place
a thought to need expression ; but one must not think a thing neces
sarily, or even probably, right or wrong, because this or that party holds
it. He seemed to me to live high up above such considerations : to be
always looking straight out for the truth, as if in clear regions of reverent
thought ; just as that wonderful eye of his was always looking into the
                                                        And what a
outward world-- observing, perceiving, distinguishing.
                   belief his was ; who that knew him intimately in his pri
deep  reverent
vate  life and     everyday conversation ever failed to see it ?--that Holy

Scripture is    indeed the message of  God our Father, that the Sacraments
witness to a    Real Presence of our   Blessed Lord with us -- that the great

fact of the Incarnation is the source of all life and goodness, that is or

ever shall be. After all, it is from the unstudied, unrestrained, every

day talk   of   a  man   that one best learns what his clearest, strongest con
victions            But
          are.           because in those days he inveighed severely --not one
particle  too      severely, as the event proved -- against what was unmanly,

un-English, celibate ; against what was opposed to true Protestantism,
and unjust and ungrateful to the Reformation, there were some who
fancied that his positive belief on some points was vague and unde
fined. Those who really knew him then knew better. And since then

the world in general has learnt better also.
"Those Cottage Lectures, especially those held in preparation for
Holy Communion, what pains he took with them ! How he would
stand up in some cottage room filled with poorest folks, talking to them
with all that earnest simplicity of his ! To no hearers, even had they
been amongst the highest and most educated, could he have spoken
                                              How wisely, carefully,
with more painstaking love and ability.

                                        His respect for the Poor.                                   239

tenderly, he would read and converse in the sick-room;                  and as
the ' servant ' of Christ and His people ! Many are the
Iwhich now, as I read them,                                            passages
                                        seem to hear him reading       to some

sufferer.

   " These are very happy memories now. They bring back that dear
one to my mind in, what was beyond shadow of doubt, his strongest,

best, most beautiful character. Often, very often, when my dear Rector

has been spoken of as one admired exceedingly in the world, and

listened to by crowds as he preached or lectured, and favoured in high

places, I have answered, ' Yes ; but you don't know his real strength

and goodness, and how far greater, more loveable, he is in his home
and parish than anywhere else. You should have lived with him and

worked with him in the earliest years after ordination, and seen how

from any and every subject, however engrossing, he would always

instantly turn to any theme that came before him relative to his own

people and his own parish ; how all those scientific subjects added

were      not in his mind               equal to  the welfare of     one parishioner.
 what       respect he had              for the                      think of no other
Itog"etAhenrd
                                                  poor !     can

word. It was not simply that he cared for them exceedingly, and was

kind, feeling, sympathetic in an especial degree ; that he would take

any amount of trouble for them ; that those whom he employed became

simply devoted to him. It was far more than this. There was in him
a simple, delicate, deep respect for the poor -- a positive looking up to
them, for His dear sake who ' became poor ;' for the good which he

saw in them, for the still greater good which he hoped to see and strove

that he might see in them, in Eversley and everywhere else ; a respect

arising out of the consciousness of his own responsibility in having to

think for those who could not well think for themselves-- a respect,

because the poor have a greater, not a less, claim upon our politeness

of manner, and thoughtful courtesy of speech, and consideration in
action of every kind.

   " So it was in his parish. What he was in his home, to those who
lived in that dear Rectory, to all who were welcome there -- the very
home of family love, of household order and peace, and hospitality-- on

IIthis may not dwell. For myself only may speak of as the chief
                                                                       I it,
                                                                                   a
among many causes of an affection for him which grew into simple

passionate love and one fed (this know that to you may dare to
I                                       I

                         a
                                     ;
say) by the knowledge that ever since those happy years at Eversley,

have had    place in his love also.               Kingsley,        he  now and of
          think of him, dear Mrs.                            as      '
" Let us
                                                                         is

                                                                                              ;
that noble, truth-loving, affectionate spirit, as being with Christ,' and
                                                                                                 "
nearer than when he was with us to God whom he loves

240 Charles Kingsley.

   In some of his schemes his elder pupil sympathised, as this
letter to Mr. Ludlow shows :--

"... Eversley, August, 1S50.
         When ' God sends mouths, He sends meat.' So Lees will
lend us the ^100 to-morrow. He is engoucwith the thing; will do any
thing to help it -- seems very much longing to buy up Jacob's Island,
and build a model lodging-house, &c., &c.
   " Now -- quick-- present -- fire. Can you and Walsh talk all over with

the Master, and run down here for three or four hours, and let us organise

this paper ? Lees says that we shall have an enormous sale, that the

Iyoung men are thirsting for something of the kind. We can get help in

Cambridge, and believe, elsewhere. God will find us men, as He has
money. But I had rather work in harness. You tell me what you want
Iweekly, and you shall have it ; else shall have twenty irons in the fire
at once, and none of them hot. I tell you, you or some one must act as
Imy commanding officer in this.
                                   have too much autocracy already to
Ibe bothered with autocracy in this too. Either must be king of this
paper, which I can't and wouldn't be, or I must be an under-strapper,

and set the example of obedience.

"Think over a list of subjects to make play on. Don't call the little
one ' The Workshop '-- people will think it merely a mechanic's trade
thing like the ' Builder.' Call it ' Brotherhood,' your old name -- first
Ithoughts are best.
                     think, if we can count on six hacks to write every

week, we can keep up a team. Now settle clearly your subjects.

1. Politics according to the Kingdom of God. 2. Art and Amusements

for the People. 3. Opening the Universities to the People, and Educa

tion in general. 4. Attacking Straussism and Infidelity. 5. Sanitary
Reform. 6. Association : a. Agitation on Partnership Laws ; Stores
                                                                           if /9.
and Distribution y. Agricultural Schemes.
   " All the five former subjects are connected with Socialism, i.e. with              a
live and practical Church. It depends on us to treat them as' ;I
                                                                           they

were so, not trying to put  into them, but to deduce their ideals
                          is
                               it

                                            '
                                                         '
out of        There, my say said.
"
         it.
The tracts, Cheap and Nasty especially, are selling well at Eton.

As for the tailors, agree with Hughes, Through much tribulation we

enter into the Kingdom of God,' and why there                           to be plenary
                                                            if          a

                                                                    is
indulgence in favour of associate tailors, can't see. Toko, my friend,;I
toko necessary to make men of us all and our neighbour won't
it is
give us, and we ourselves won't either, God will."

           Disturbed State of the Country.                                            241

                                                                                                                       September, 1850.

I" have been very forgetful about the tract --forgive me. My

excuse is the unspeakable hurry and ceaseless work of preparing, thanks

to the Bishop, my confirmation candidates in a fortnight, instead of the
usual time (six weeks), which has nearly driven me wild --but that is

I Iover to-morrow, and then, after the getting them ready for Communion
next week, will work for the movement steadily.          quite agree with

all you say on Church matters                            But why can we not do more ?

why can we not set up an Associate journal ? Every fool and penniless
adventurer is starting his periodical -- is it so much easier to do the

devil's work than God's ? If you will join me in a speculation to get the
Ithing started, will run the chance of pecuniary loss, and work myself
to the bone to resuscitate " Politics for the People," in a new form. I

want to, and (D.V.) will, at once, write a set of papers in or tracts
 God justified to the People,' or Bible Radicalism by Parson Lot --
''                                           'I          'I
       .                                                               '
                                                                I
        I                                                                        it,
                                                                               if
showing that Democracy                 ! is  the idea of the Bible and the cause of

God, beginning with the Exodus, and going through David and the

Prophets to our Lord and the Early Church. Lees and are just going
to begin Strauss, and will write some sort of answer to him, God
                                 I                       am not perplexed --
gives me grace. . . . Oh do not fancy thatI
cast down, yet not in despair.' -- No Christ reigns, as Luther used to
say, Christ reigns -- and therefore will not fear, though the mountainsI;

be removed (and with them) and cast into the midst of the sea.'" . . .
. . Your letter makes me very sad.II                     cannot abide the notion of

Branch Churches or Free (Sect) Churches. So help me God, unless my
whole train of thought alters, will resist the temptation as coming from
                                       I

the devil. Where am, am doing God's work, and when the Church
                                                               '

                                                                                     is
ripe for more, the Head of the Church will put the means in our way.

You seem to fancy that we have               a      Dcus qaidam Deceptor over us after

                                                 '

Ifall. did, I'd go and blow my dirty brains out, and be rid of the
whole thing at once, would indeed. If God, when people ask Him to
               I

teach and guide them, does not -- when they confess themselvesif,

rogues and fools to Him, and beg Him to make them honest and wise,

He does not, but darkens them and deludes them into bogs and pitfalls
-- He father? You fall back on Judaism, friend.
I is
           a
                              a
" shall write                    Labour Conference Tract forthwith. As for hot
water with the tailors -- tell Cooper, no hot water, no tea."

   During the autumn of 1850 the state of the country was
ominous. In his own parish there was still low fever, and

general depression prevailed. Work was slack, and as winter

      vol.
1.
                                                                                                                            R

                                                                                                          a

242 Charles Kingsley.

approached gangs of housebreakers and men who preferred beg
ging and robbery to the workhouse, wandered about Hampshire,
Surrey, and Sussex. No house was secure. Mr. Holiest, the
clergyman of Frimley, was murdered in his own garden while
pursuing the thieves ; and the little Rectory at Eversley, which
had never hitherto needed protection, and had scarcely a strong
lock on its doors, was armed with bolts and bars, fortunately
before it too was attempted by the same gang. The Rector
slept with loaded pistols by his bed-side, and policemen from
Winchester watched in and about the quiet garden by night.
The future of England looked dark, and he writes to Mr.
Maurice :--

"Mv DEAREST MASTER,                                EVERSLEY, SUNDAY, October, 1850.

If" I hear you are come home.                                         so, for God's sake come
Idown and see me, if but for a day.
                                                                      have more doubts, per
Iplexities, hopes, and fears to pour out to you than could utter in a
Iweek, and to the rest of our friends cannot open. You comprehend

me ; you are bigger than I. Come down and tell me what to think and

do, and let Fanny as well as me, have the delight of seeing your face

again. I would come to you, but I have two pupils, and business

besides,  and also     don't know when     and how      to catch you.
          truth           feel we are all  going on     in the dark,
   " The               I I iIs,                                        toward  some

                                        a
thing wonderful and awful, but whether to precipice or paradise, or

neither, or both, cannot tell. All my old roots are tearing up one by
                                                   '                   a
                                                                   '           is

                                                                 a                 I
one, and though keep gallant front before the Charlotte Street

people (Council of Association), little they know of the struggles within
me, the laziness, the terror. Pray for me
                                                        ;I            could lie down and cry at

times. A poor fool of fellow, and yet feeling thrust upon all sorts of
                       a

great and unspeakable paths, instead of being left in peace to classify

Ifbut"terflies    and  catch trout.        Psalms  and  Prophets, and  the Gospels,
it              were   not for the

should turn tail, and flee shamefully, giving up the whole question, and

all others, as cegri somnia."

                       TO M. LUDLOW, ESQ.
I
                                                                      EVERSLEY, October, 1850.
                                 is

                               J.
   " have been thinking about                      two ways of working this penny

periodical, and which the right.                   Whether our present idea    not to

                                         New Periodical.                                                   243

write down to the people, to address ourselves too exclusively to the
working man, to give them only a part of our thoughts ? Whether the

truly democratic method would not be to pour out our whole souls

in it. To say, if not all we think, yet all we think fit to say on every
                                         possible, an organ of Christian teaching to all
subject ; to make          it,

                             if

                                                             I
                                                                                              a
classes,  on the things       now agitating their minds.               and everything                      else,
          have the best       criticism, metaphysics, history,
   " To

and by teaching all, to teach the working man merely as member of

the whole, and of equal rights and mind with all.                      cannot help fancy
ing this the true brotherly method -- to speak to factory-worker and
duke alike-- to put them on one common ground, show that we con

sider them subject to the same law.                                    want to send you bit of
                                                    I                  is
                                                        I                 a

                                                                    '                  a
poetry,* and the first of three letters on the Frimley murder, and our
present 'reign of terror,' showing that Christian organization of labour

might have prevented all, and that increased police                          mere ruinous
                   ?
                                      '

                                  it
driving inward of the disease. Will you have them? Have you

any numbers of the Morning Chronicle with information about our
Ifhop"-Tdhisetrircotgsues
                           you have, be so kind as to send me them down at once.

                         are frightened off.        had to send charge of slugs,
                                                                       a

not deadly though unpleasantly straight, after one the other night, and

the"y  have        eschewed   us since.          Conference  Tract as soon as                    can.      But
   It I will       get ready  the Labour                                     it I

I  have been disorganised, and kept up at night by these sons of Belial,

and so am behind in my work                         "
         ! I is I
   * thought that this must have been the poem referred to, as                                   expresses the
struggle of his mind at that time.

  " It chanced upon the merry, merry Christmas Eve

                 went sighing past the church across the moorland dreary.
       Oh never sin, and want, and woe, this earth will leave,

          And the bells but mock the wailing round, they sing so cheery.

       How long, Lord how long before Thou come again
   '               a                                                   ?
                                                                                  !;
          Still in cellar, and in garret, and on moorland dreary,IOis
                                 !                                                                               '
   The orphans moan, and widows weep, and poor men toil in vain.
         'Til the earth sick of hope deferred, though Christmas bells be cheery.

   Then arose joyous clamour from the wild-fowl on the mere,

          Beneath the stars, across the snow, like clear bells ringing
   And voice within cried -- Listen Christmas carols even here
          !I a                           '       !
                                              ;
          Though thou be dumb, yet o'er their work the stars and snows are singing.

   Blind           live, love, reign and all the nations through
                              I

          With the thunder of my judgments even now are ringing
                                                                       it
   Do thou fulfil thy work but as yon wild-fowl do,
                                                                              :

                                                                                           K

                                                                                                        2
          Thou wilt heed no less the wailing, yet hear through the angels singing."

                                                                               PARSON LOT.

244 Charles Kings ley.

  I" Jeremiah is my favourite book now. It has taught me more than

tongue can tell. But am much disheartened, and am minded to
speak no more words in this name (Parson Lot). Yet all these bully-
ings, teach one, correct one, warn one, show one that God is not leaving
one to go one's own way. ' Christ reigns,' quoth Luther."

   " Alton Locke " came out in August, and the verdict of the
Press was of course a severe one. The best artizans, however,
hailed it as a true picture of their class and circumstances, and
there are still thoughtful men and women of the higher orders
who consider it one of the finest of his productions. Mr. Carlyle's

words on the subject are noteworthy.

                                      Chelsea, October 31, 1850.

I" It is now a great many weeks that  have been your debtor

for a book which in various senses was very welcome to me. ' Alton

Locke ' arrived in Annandale, by post, from my wife, early in Sep

tember, and was swiftly read by me, under the bright sunshine, by
Ithe sound of rushing brooks and other rural accompaniments.
                                                              believe
the book is still doing duty in those parts ; for I had to leave it behind
me on loan, to satisfy the public demand. Forgive me, that I have not,

even by a word, thanked you for this favour. Continual shifting and

moving ever since, not under the best omens, has hindered me from

writing almost on any subject or to any person.

  I" Apart from your treatment of my own poor self (on which subject

let me not venture to speak at all), found plenty to like, and be grate

ful for in the book: abundance, nay exuberance of generous zeal; head

long impetuosity of determination towards the manful side on all

manner of questions ; snatches of excellent poetic description, occa

sional sunbursts of noble insight ; everywhere a certain wild intensity,

which holds the reader fast as by a spell : these surely are good quali

ties, and pregnant omens in a man of your seniority in the regiment !

IAt the same time, am bound to say, the book is definable as crude ;

by no manner of means the best we expect of you -- if you will resolutely

temper your fire. But to make the malt sweet, the fire should and
must be slow : so says the proverb, and now, as before, I include all
duties for you under that one ! ' Saunders Mackaye,' my invaluable
Icountryman in this book, is nearly perfect ; indeed
                                                      greatly wonder
how you did contrive to manage him -- his very dialect is as if a native

had done and the whole existence of the rugged old hero
it,                                                                                                        won
                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                        a

derfully splendid and coherent piece of Scotch bravura. In both of

                 Letter from Thomas Carlyle.                                                                  245

Iyour women, too, find some grand poetic features ; but neither of

them is worked out into the ' Daughter of the Sun ' she might have

been ; indeed, nothing is worked out anywhere in comparison with

'Saunders;' and the impression is of a fervid creation still left half

chaotic. That is my literary verdict, both the black of it and the

whi"teO. f the grand social and moral questions we will say nothing what

ever at present : any time within the next two centuries, it is like, there

will be enough to say about them ! On the whole, you will have to

persist ; like a cannon-ball that is shot, you will have to go to your
Imark, whatever that be.
                          stipulate farther that you come and see me

when you are at Chelsea ; and that you pay no attention at all to the

foolish clamour of reviewers, whether laudatory or condemnatory.

                             " Yours with true wishes,
                                                   " T. Carlyle."

   His elder pupil left Eversley in November, and his tutor
writes :--

                 TO WILLIAM LEES, ESQ.

                                    Eversley, December 4, 1850.
                             am, that ought to have written
I I" As you must be as well aware as
Ito you long ago, shall not dilate on that unpleasant fact. Every

thing remains as before, except the leaves which have fallen, and the
If Ihouse-breakers, who have come again.
                                          have to shoot them after

all, it will not be for want of provocation ; and if they get in, it will not

be for want of trying. The infants remain healthy. Mrs. Kingsley

troubled with much serving. John Martineau studious, and Dandy
superfluous. We have commenced night schools, and a weekly lec
Iture on English history, which started last night with twenty hearers,
Ion the Saxon conquest, and
                             hope made the agricultural eyes open

once or twice, by showing that they did not grow out of the earth

originally, like beetles, but came from somewhere else ; and might

probably have to go somewhere else, and make room for their betters,

if they continued so like beetles, human manure-carriers, and hole-

grubbers, much longer. The weather has been trying its hand at
             Frantic gales, frantic frosts, now frantic mists. I go
everything.

to Bramshill cottage lecture to-night, and expect to finish in a
ditch -- but this rain has made it soft lying, so that is of no con

sequence.        as you may suppose, Wiseman-foolish so, for that
                 is,
   " The Doctor
                                                                                                           ;

246 Charles Kings ley.

matter, are his betters. The dear ' Times ' is making strong play

on the Papal aggressions ; and on the whole the fool-crop seems as

good this year as last. The 'Christian Socialist' sells about 1500,

Iand is spreading ; but not having been yet cursed by any periodical,

fear it is doing no good. Pray let us hear from you again. You will

see a letter of mine in last week's ' Spectator,' ' Evidence against the
                IDon't say who wrote it :
Universities.'                              have quite enough dogs

barking at me already. Mrs. Kingsley and John send kindest remem
Ibrance. Did you send the 'bugs,' as the Yankees call them, to Barlow's?
for I hear nothing of them.  wish I was in bed, which, after all, is the

only place of rest on earth for a parson."

   The publication of " Yeast " brought him some enemies and
many correspondents ; and more than one "fast man " came down
from London to open his heart to its author and ask advice.
In the religious world the Anglican question occupied one large
section of the Church, and the tide set Rome-wards. Clergy

men wrote to him to ask him to advise them how to save mem

bers of their flock from Popery ; mothers to beg him to try and
rescue their daughters from the influence of Protestant con
fessors ; while women, themselves hovering between Rome and
Anglicanism, between the attractions of a nunnery and the
monotonous duties of family life, laid their difficulties before the
author of the " Saint's Tragedy." He who shrank on principle
from the office of father-confessor had the work thrust upon him
by many whom he never met face to face in this world, and

whom he dared not refuse to help.
   The labour was severe to a man who felt the importance of

such communications, and the responsibility of giving counsel, as
intensely as he did ; and those who saw the daily letters on
his study table would say that the weight of such corre

spondence alone was enough to wear any man down, who had
not in addition sermons to write, books to compose, a parish to
work, and a pupil to teach. But his iron energy, coupled with
a deep conscientiousness, enabled him to get through it. " One
more thing done," he would say, "thank God," as each letter
was written, each chapter of a book or page of a sermon dic
tated to his wife ; " and oh ! how blessed it will be when it is all
over, to lie down in that dear churchyard."

                   The Weight of Correspondence.                                    247

   The correspondence increased year by year, as each fresh book
touched and stirred fresh hearts. Officers both in the army
and navy would write to him -- all strangers -- one to ask his
opinion about duelling ; another to beg him to recommend or
write a rational form of family prayer for camp or hut ; another
for a set of prayers to be used on board ship in her Majesty's
navy ; others on more delicate social points of conscience and

conduct, which the writers would confide to no other clergyman ;
but all to thank him for his books. The atheist dared tell him
of his doubts ; the profligate of his fall ; young men brought
up to go into Holy Orders, but filled with misgivings about the
Articles, the Creeds, and, more than all, on the question of end

less punishment, would pour out all their difficulties to him ; and

many a noble spirit now working as a priest and pastor in the
Church of- England would never have taken orders but for

Charles Kingsley.
   The following letters to a country rector, a stranger to him,

who wrote to consult him about social politics and the Romish

question, are placed together, though written at intervals.
    No names are given, for obvious reasons.

                   TO THE REV.      , RECTOR OF                  .

                                                                Eversley, January 13, 1S51.

I I" will answer your most interesting letter as shortly as can, and,

if possible, in the same spirit of honesty as that in which you have

written to me.

  " First. I do not think the cry ' get on,' to be anything but a devil's

cry. The moral of my book         is,that the working man who tries to get

on, to desert his class and rise above enters intoI
                   for his own -- with consequences.a it,                         lie, and leaves
Go"d'Ssecpoantdh.                                        atailor or
                      believe that man might be, as          a                      costermonger,
if                      Ia                                                        for have seen
                                                                        '
   I                                                                            aa

                                                                        I
every inch of him saint and scholar, and gentleman,
                   Ia
some few such already.      believe hundreds of thousands more would

be so, their businesses were put on Christian footing, and them

selves given by education, sanitary reforms, &c., the means of develop

ing their own latent capabilities.     think the cry, rise in life,' has been

excited by the very increasing impossibility of being anything but brutes

while they struggle below.  I   know well all that doing in the way ofis

education, &c., but do assert that the disease of degradation has been

248 Charles Kingslcy.

Ifor the last forty years increasing faster than the remedy. And

believe, from experience, that when you put workmen into human

dwellings, and give them a Christian education, so far from wishing

                                                                                         it,
discontentedly to rise out of their class, or to level others to exactly
the opposite takes place. They become sensible of the dignity of work,

and they begin to see their labour as true calling in God's church,
                              a
now that  a it     cleared from the accidentia which made look, in theirit, ' a
               is                                                                  a

                                                                                     it
eyes, only soulless drudgery in devil's workshop of world.
   "Third. From the advertisement of an English republic' you send,                               I

can guess who will be the writers in &c., being behind the scenes.
It will come to nought; everything of this kind
                                                                               is  coming to nought

now. The workmen are tired of idols ready and yearning for the
                                          ;

church and the gospel and such men as your friend may laugh at
                           ;

Julian Harney, Feargus O'Connor, &c. Only we live in great crisis,                 a
and the Lord requires great things of us. The fields are white to

harvest. Pray ye, therefore, the Lord of the harvest.

"Fourth. As to the capacities of working men, am afraid that your
                                                                               I

excellent friend will find that he has only the refuse of working intellects

to form his induction on. The devil has got the best long ago. By the

neglect of the Church, by her dealing (like the Popish church, and all

weak churches) only with women, children, and beggars, the cream and

pith of working intellect     almost exclusively self-educated, and there
          !

                                      is
                                                                        is
Iffore, alas infidel.  he goes on as he doing, lecturing on history,

poetry, science, and all the things which the workmen crave for, and can

only get from such men as Holyoake, Thomas Cooper, &c., mixed up

with Straussism and infidelity, he will find that he will draw back to his

Lord's fold, and to his lecture rooms, slowly, but surely, men whose

powers will astonish him, as they have astonished me.

   "Fifth. The workmen whose quarrels you mention are not Christians,
or socialists either. They are of all creeds and none. We are teaching

them to become Christians by teaching them gradually that true socialism,

true liberty, brotherhood, and true equality (not the carnal, dead level
equality of the communist, but the spiritual equality of the Church idea,

which gives every man an equal chance of developing and using God's

gifts, and rewards every man according to his work, without respect of

persons) only to be found in loyalty and obedience to Christ. They
          is

                  if
do quarrel, but you knew how they used to quarrel before association,

the improvement since would astonish you. And the French associa

tions do not quarrel at all.  can send you pamphlet on them, you
                              I                                             a                 if

                                       a
wish, written by an eye-witness, friend of mine.

  " Sixth. If your friend wishes to see what can be made ofworkmen's

brains, let him,   in  God's name, go down to Harrow Weald, and there

                      " From Oxford to Rome."                                 249

see Mr. Monro --see what he has done with his own national school
Iboys.
          have his opinion as to the capabilities of those minds, which
Iwe, alas ! now so sadly neglect.
                                        only ask him to go and ask of that

man the question you have asked of me.
   " Seventh. May I, in reference to myself, and certain attacks on me,

say, with all humility, that I do not speak from hearsay now, as has

been asserted, from second-hand picking and stealing out of those

' Reports on Labour and the Poor,' in the ' Morning Chronicle,' which

Iare now being reprinted in a separate form ; and which entreat you to

read if you wish to get a clear view of the real state of the working

classes.
I" From my cradle, as the son of an active clergyman,
                                                                           have been

brought up in the most familiar intercourse with the poor in town and

country. My mother is a second Mrs. Fry, in spirit and act. For four

teen years my father has been the rector of a very large metropolitan

I I Iparish -- and speak what know, and testify that which have seen.
IIWith earnest prayer, in fear and trembling,
                                                   wrote my book, and
trust in Him to whom I prayed, that He has not left me to my own

prejudices or idols, on any important point relating to the state of the

Ifpossibilities of the poor for whom He died. Any use which you choose
you can make of this letter.            it should seem worth your while to
Ihonour me with any further communications,
                                                   shall esteem them a

delight, and the careful consideration of them a duty."

" Alas !     my dear sir, as                          EvERSLEY, January 26, 1851.

                               I have had to ask others ere now, ' Am
I God to kill and to make alive, that thou sendest to me to recover a
                         '
man  of his  leprosy  ?     Whatsoever  you can point out to me, as possible,
I will do. So far from siding with Dr.
                                                   he in my eyes, one;

                                                             is I * is,
of the most harmful men now in England and * * * in spite of

his real holiness and purity,    not the man to whom                     would intrust
                               is
                                      it,

                                                a
anyone love. In him, and in all that school, there                     an element of
     I

foppery -- even in dress and manner; fastidious, maundering, die-away

effeminacy, which     is    mistaken for purity and refinement and         I  con
                                                   is
fess myself unable to cope with so alluring           it

                                                                        ;
                                                   to the minds of an

effeminate and luxurious aristocracy; neither educated in all that should

teach them to distinguish between bad and good taste, healthy and un

healthy philosophy or devotion.         never attempted but once to rescue
I

                         a
                                             's

                                         I

                                                                            a

                                                 I

                                                                                                                     ;

                                                       II

                                                                                                                                            a
a woman out of              hands, and then failed utterly and completely.

could not pamper her fancies as he could for could not bid her be

more than woman, but only to be woman.             could not promise

safe and easy royal road to lily crowns, and palms of virginity, and

250 Charles Kingsley.

Ithe especial coronet of saints.          have nothing especial to offer any

one, except especial sorrow and trouble, if they wish to try to do
Iespecial good.
                           wish for no reward, no blessing, no name, no grace,

but what is equally the heritage of potboys and navvies, and which

Ithey can realise and enjoy just as deeply as can, while they remain

pot"-bNoyosw  and    navvies, and right jolly    ones  too.     much  noble        and     good
               this   whole school (though      there  is very
in and they have re-called men's minds -- am sure they have
it,
            a
                     is
                        is
                                a

                                                I

                                                                                                          it,
mine-- to great deal of catholic and apostolic truth which we are

now forgetting)                an aristocratic movement in the fullest and most
carnal sense. It
                                  system for saving the souls of fine ladies and

gentlemen in an elegant and gentlemanlike way; for making                                                      the

more riches they have, the more easy to enter into what they call the

kingdom of heaven, and after sitting on high above the masses here on

earth, to sit on high above them for ever hereafter. EiSis Xe'ya.                          may
              if

                                                   is

                                               I
                                                  I
                                                                    I
seem coarse and sneering -- God                 my witness,     feel deeply and ten
derly --and you knew the misery which have seen, and partly had

to endure from all this, you would not wonder at my showing my teeth

when speak of it.
   " Now the perfection of this aristocratic, exclusive method of soul-
I

    is
saving only to be found Romish Jesuitism, which
                                  in                                  system con
                                                                      is
                                            I                            a
                                                                              is,
structed consciously and expressly for great folks. And the bolder,

deeper, honester any English gentleman-or-lady-Puseyite                            the more

certain they are to go on, and throw themselves into the arms of the

Jesuits, who have the real, complete system, and not mere tentative
                                                                   a

sham of       a it.  Here again, Ei'Scis X/ya.  saw this very thing happen with

as noble heart as God ever made                        And she was right, and

consistent, and logical in that act of moral suicide and perhaps out of
                                                                ;

the black pit of utter unbelief and atheism, conscious or unconscious,

which Jesuitism, she and others may yet be driven to utter one cry to
a
           is

                       is
living Father, when the dead traditionary god of formulae and cere

monies, who supposed to have left this earth with the last Stuart in

1688, shall have vanished as an empty phantom, and left them alone

with their own hearts in the infinite dark. If, therefore, were to
                                                       ?

                                                           if

                                                             it it, I
                                                                 I

                                                                                        '

                                                                         I
meet your friend, what am to say to her                Can say, Go thus far,
                                  I

but don't go any farther?'                Folks do say that. So help me God,
                                                                                           is
never will. If the road           is      right one, follow        in God's name, to
                                       a                                                     I

the end however strange the end may seem,                       be the end, you are
;

safe in it. But the road be the wrong road, shall say, 'Stop here,
                           if

half-way, at the sign of nowhere          ?     Roads were meant to travel on,
                                             '

not to stand still on and the reason why one travels on road to
                               ;                                      a

get to the place whither that road leads. Does Mr. B.'s road lead to

                             The Government of God.                 251

Rome? Po-sibly not consciously, naff tWnjv and in its absolute idea;

Ibut as a fact, now, in this country, in the best English souls, it does so,
at least per accidens.       believe that it does «.a& iavujv; you will not

deny that it does so per accidens, else why have B.'s curate and church

warden followed poor C. last week ? You say because they are weak ?

Well at least they are strong enough to take that very bold step ; and

they and all the converts I have seen, are very fair specimens of the

English upper classes-- not a strong-minded class at all just now.
   " This road, then, as a fact, leads Romewards. Now do you wish

me to say to your friend what I think ? Do you wish me to ask her the
Iquestions must ask, or speak no word to her? Dare you send to her a

man who would say to her, or pray to Jesus Christ to give him courage
to say to her : -- Madam you are pure -- why not ? You are an English

lady. You are benevolent --why not? So have Jews, Turks, and
Infidels been, if they were born so. You are earnest and ardent-- so is
Satan himself. You are devout -- so were the women of Heathen Rome ;

so are the women of Popish Rome now. You wish to do good. Would

you wish it equally, if Hell-fire and not Paradise were promised, as the
I Imeed of your almsgiving, sick visiting, and church building ? In one

word, Madam, want proof -- and how to get it cannot tell -- certainly

not from anything which I have just mentioned--that you are not an
atheist and an idolator. Those are terrible words ; but I mean them.
I want proof whether you really believe in God the Father, God the
IISon, and God the Holy Spirit.
                             see very few who do.               hardly dare
IfIsay, except at moments, that do myself.          you do not -- if you only

believe in believing in them, if you believe that they are present only in

some Church or system ; or ought to be present there, and may be put

back again there, by art and man's device, by more rigid creeds, and

formulae, more church goings, more mediaeval architecture, more outward

ceremonies, or more private prayers, &c., &c., and religious acts of the

members : if you believe that God used to guide the world, or one

nation of in the Jews' time          you believe that God takes care of
if                           ;:

                   it,         ; if
Episcopal churches, and the devil has the rest of the world to himself:

   you believe that God takes care of souls, and not of bodies also of
Churches, and not of States also of ecclesiastical events, and not of
                                                                    :
political and scientific ones also of saints, and not of sinners also of
spiritual matters, and not of crops and trades and handicrafts also then;;

cannot, cannot say that you believe in the creeds or the sacraments, or
I

                         in
those of whose Eternal being, presence and power they witness. You

may not be an atheist, or an idolator, for you may have deeper and

more living faith in God than you express, deeper than have. But
                                                                II
still you are, creed at least, Manichee,            not worse.      cannot bid
                             a

                                                if

        252 Charles Kingsley.

        you stop in the Church of England, if this is your creed ; for it is

        exactly the creed against which the Church of England, in all her

        articles, services, and in her national form of constitution, in her excel

        lencies as well as her defects, protests : you must logically go to Rome,

        where that Manicheeism (Atheism as I should call it), is formulized and
        systematized. I warn you that you are in a lie. But if you are in
                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                  it it,
        you must either come back, utterly out of or go through with till
                                                                 it

                                                                    it,
        breaks down under you, as pray God may, either in this life, or in
                           I
                                       is I
        the life to come.     do not pretend to judge how guilty you are. An

        English rich lady just now, one of those to whom little given, and          is

        of them will little be required. Every real unselfish longing for
                                  God) for its own sake -- every aspiration of real
        righteousness (which  is

instinctive childlike love for Him who died for ycu, will be rewarded

if a I athousand-fold. But every error must,                     in  God's universe, bring down

        on itself, by necessary and eternal laws, more necessary and causative

        than those of physical science, some cognate misery.                        believe that the
                                                                               I

                                                                                 I

                                                                                                    : if
        Lord will have mercy on you, for He has mercy on all His works. But
        shudder at that which before you, some when and some where -- He
                              in
        alone knows what, and when, and where. But Madam, would say,: is

        you really believe the Lord's Prayer, and the Creed, and the Sacraments,if

        and the witness of the Priesthood           :      is :  you really believe that you have

        Father in heaven,         any real sense of that king of words, Fatherif

          you believe that He who died on the Cross for you, and for your

children, and for the whole earth, really now King and Lord of the

        Universe, King and Lord of England, and of your property, and of your

body and mind and spirit                             you really believe that the Holy Spirit pro

ceeds from Him as well as from His Father and your Father, and that
        He and your Father are One -- why should you go to Rome
                                                                                        ?  Did

God make Rome and not England He has chosen to teach Rome
                                                           ?

one way and England another. He has chosen to make you an English

woman, member of the Church of England, English in education,
          aa
character, brain, feelings, duties you cannot unmake yourself. You are
                                                       :

already member of that Spiritual One body, called the English Nation                                a:

you cannot make yourself anything else. A child cannot choose its own
mother the fact of your being born in certain faith and certain
          :                                                a
                                                                       a
circumstances, ought to be to you                                plain proof,I      you believe in

Living Father at all, that that faith and those circumstances are the           if
ones by which He means to teach you, which you are to work. You
                                                              is
may answer, What                                                in             answer, Prove first
                           iIf      find the faith wrong?

that you know what the faith      is                 is    You must exhaust the meaning of

                                                        !

the Church of England, before you have any right to prefer any other
church to For there always an a priori probability that you are right
              it.

     Romanism foreign to the English Mind.                                                                 253

Iwhere you are, because God has put you where you are. But am not
                                                        I only ask you to pause for
going to rest the question on probabilities.

their sake, while you consider whether you know what the Church of

England what God's education of England has been, and whether the
     is,
one or the other are consistent with each other.a                        say they are.                     say
                                                     ;                                             I
that the Church of England                                                                            I it I
                                                                   I
                                               a is  wonderfully and mysteriously fitted for                I

the souls of free Norse-Saxon race for men whose ancestors fought by

the side of Odin, over whom descendant of Odin now rules. And

say that the element which you have partially introduced, and to drown

yourself in which you must go to Rome,                  is     foreign element, unsuited
                                                            a

to Englishmen, and to God's purposes with England. How far may be

the best for the Italian or Spanish spirit cannot judge.                                                   can only
                                                        if I
believe that they had been capable of anything higher, God would
     is

            if
have given them something higher. And you ask me, why think

we are capable of something higher, say, because the highest idea of
                                                     I

man  to know his Father, and look his Father in the face, in full

assurance of faith and love and that out of that springs all manful
                                               ;

                                                                      I
energy, self-respect, all self-restraint, all that the true Englishman has,

and the Greek and Spaniard have not. And                                 say this                  is    what that

                                                                                                        '
inspired demagogue, St. James, means when he speaks of the per

fect law of liberty.'  I                       say that this Protestant faith, which teaches

every man to look God in the face for himself, has contributed

more than anything else to develop family life, industry, freedom in

England, Scotland and Sweden and that any one wishes to benefit
                                                     ;

                                                                   if

                                                                                                a
the poor whom God has committed to their charge, they must do any
thing and every thing rather than go to Rome -- to creed which by

substituting the Confessor for God, begins by enslaving the landlord's

soul, and will infallibly teach him to enslave the souls of his tenants,
make them more incapable than they are now, of independence, self-

respect, self-restraint make association and co-operation impossible to
a
                                                        to nurse them like infants,
       it if
             it

                                            ;

                                   a
them, by substituting Virgin Mary, who                  is

                                                                      ;

                                                                                        by
for Father in whom they are men and brothers and end                                                       bringing

them down  to the level of the Irish or Neapolitan savage.
               be answered that the last thirty years of Protestantism
   " And

have been rapidly degrading the poor to this very level                  ;I                        answer, Yes  ;

because has not been Protestant but Popish. Till Protestants began

to turn Papists five years ago, we little knew how Popish we were at

heart. But all the time, from Calvinistic and Evangelical, as well as

from High Church pulpits had been preached the Popish doctrine
against which the martyrs of the Reformation, and the old Catholic

creeds, which they preserved in the spirit, while Rome only kept their

letter, protested. From Evangelical, as well as from High Church and

    254 Charles Kingsley.

    Romish pulpits, went forth the message that the devil, and not Jesus
    Christ, is the Lord of this present world ; that men are sent into this

    life to get their souls saved in the next life ; that the soil is not

    Christ's but man's ; that the State has nothing to do with religion, or

    clergymen with politics ; that property has no absolute and essential

    duty towards Christ (why should           it,        be not the Lord who giveth us

    power to get wealth          ?),    but only works of supererogation in the way ofin ' if
                                      is
    alms and charity, and district visiting, and school building that Godit
       not the Father, nor Christ the Lord, of all men, but only of chosen
I is                                                                           ;
                                                                                    a
                                                                                                 '
    few (whether Episcopally-baptized ones, or the converted,' or theI . if ''
    elect,' matters little in practice and spiritual truth) and, in word,
    all that Manichaean-practical-atheism, of which Rome the systematisedis ;      a
    embodiment, and which now proving what its unconscious parentage
    was, leading people, the children of Evangelicals especially, to Rome from

    whence came.I it                              Ifwould say,           you are dissatisfied

       " This would say; and then
                                 it.
                                     is
                                              is

                                           I
    with the present state of the Church of England, so am                         Stay in
                                                                               I.

                                                                                         is
                                                                                                     it,
    then, and try to mend                 But let your emendations be consistent with

    the idea of the part which yet pure. To Romanize the Church not to

    reform         To unprotestantize         not to reform              Therefore take care
             it.                                         ;

                                                                    it.
    that the very parts in the Prayer-book which you would alter, be not

    just the really Catholic and Apostolic parts that you would give, without

    intending     . it,  exactly the same Sectarian and Manichaean tone to its

    present true catholicity which the Puritan party would,                    if  they were

    allowed to tamper with the Baptismal or Ordination Service. This

      would say, God gave me utterance and courage. It remains for

    you to decide whether you dare allow me to say or rather will say
                                                                         it,
                                                                                                        it

    you"rsMelaf.ke any use whatsoever which you choose of this letter. Mind, my.

    dear sir, that have been here putting the arguments themselves in

    strong relief. In what words          it  might be right to embody them, would

    depend upon the temper and peculiar trials and advantages of the per

    son herself."

                                          TO THE SAME.

                  [Who had shown the previous letter to the lady in question.]

                                                         Eversley, February
I                                                                                                                                                   1851.
                 is
      " All
              I

                                                            in

                                            I
                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                5,
                   right which God wills, else           should have wished that my

    opinions had gone to your friend in some milder form.                      hope for my

    sake you will send her the passage at the end of my last letter, where

      say that should put them                    different shapes, according to the

The whole Question Anthropological.                                255

subjects of them, and that you have them only in their rough-hewn state

for your own perusal, not hers.

  " I am convinced of one thing more and more, by experience, that

the whole question is an anthropological one. ' Define a human being,'

ought to be the first query. It is thence that the point of departure,

perhaps unconsciously, takes place. Perhaps I shall not bore you, if I
Ispeak a little on this point. I do not speak from book, for have no

great faith in controversial books -- they never go to the hearts of the
doctrines or those who hold them. ' Measure for measure ' taught me

more than oceans of anti-men polemics could have done, or pro-men

Ieither. But, to tell you the truth in private, have been through that
terrible question of ' Celibacy versus Marriage ' once already in my life.
IAnd from what
                     have, felt about it in myself, and seen others feel,
IfI am convinced that it is the cardinal point.
                                                 you leave that fortress

untaken, your other batteries are wasted. It is to religion, what the
Malthusian doctrine is to political economy --the crux in limine, your

views of which must  logically influence your views of everything  afterwards.
   " Now, there are  two great views of men. One as a spirit        embodied

in flesh and blood, with certain relations, namely, those of father, child,
husband, wife, brother, as necessary properties of his existence. No one
denies that the relations of father and child are necessary, seeing that

man is the son of man. About the necessity of the others there is a

Iquestion with some ; but not with the class of whom speak, viz., the

many, Christian as well as heathen, in all ages and countries. To them,
practically, at least, all the relations are considered as standing on the

same basis, viz., the actual constitution which God has given man, and
the necessity of continuing his race.

   " Those of them who are spiritually enlightened, have learnt to

believe that these relations to man are the symbols of relations to God.
That God is our Father. That Christ is the husband of the one

collective and corporate person, called the Church. That we are

brothers and sisters, in as far as we are children of the same Heavenly

Father. And, finally, that these human relations are given us to teach

us their divine antitypes ; and therefore that it is only in proportion as
we appreciate and understand the types that we can understand the anti

types. They deny that these relations are carnal, i. e., animal, in

essence. They say that they are peculiar to the human race. That

being human, they are spiritual, because man qml man is not an animal,

but a spirit embodied in an animal. Therefore they more or less

clearly believe these relations to be everlasting ; because man is im

mortal, and therefore all which pertains to his spirit (as these do) is
immortal also. How these relations are to be embodied practically in

256 Charles Kings ley.

the future state, they do not know : for they do not know how they them

selves are to be embodied. But seeing that these relations are in this

life the teachers of the highest truths, and intimately and deeply

connected with their deepest and holiest feelings and acts, they believe

that they will in the next life teach them still more, be still more con

nected with their inmost spirits, and therefore have a more perfect

development and fulfilment, and be the forms of a still more intimate

union with the beloved objects, whom they now feel and know to be
absolutely parts of themselves.

  " This I hold to be the Creed of the Bible, both of the Old Testa

ment and the New. And if any passages in the New Testament seem

to militate against                   think that they only do so from our reading our
                          a is
popular manichseism or gnosticism into them or from our not seeing
that the Old Testament doctrine of the absolute and everlastinga iIt,
                                            ;
                                                            is
humanity, and therefore sanctity, of these relations                  to be taken for

granted in the New Testament as an acknowledged substratum to all

further teaching.                                             in  large numbers, princi
   " The second class, who have been found

pally among the upper classes, both among Christians and heathens at

various eras of the world, hold an entirely different anthropology. In

their eyes man not spirit necessarily embodied in, and expressed by

an animal but spirit accidentally connected with, and burdened by
         it
an animal. The animal part of them only supposed to be human,
the spiritual, angelic or diabolic, as the case may be. The relations of;

life are supposed to be properties only of the animal part, or rather
adjuncts of them. The ideal of man, therefore, to deny, not himself,
                                            is
but the animal part which                         is is

                                                                                 a
                                      is  not himself, and to strive after non-

human or angelic state. And this angelic state supposed, of course,

to be single and self-sustained, without relations, except to God alone; a

theory grounded first on the belief of the Easterns and Alexandrians,
and next, on the supposed meaning of an expression of our Lord's in

Mark xii.           25.        be     true anthropology, but      object to                in limine,
   " Now            this  may      a                        I

                                                                                      it,

that denies its own ground. If, as all will allow, we can only know

our relations to God through our relations to each other, the more we
abjure and despise those latter relations, the less we shall know of the

former, the less ground we shall have for believing that they are our

relations to God; and, therefore, in practice, the less we shall believe that
they are. It has been said that to be alone only means to have nothing
between us and heaven. It may mean that, but will also mean to
                                                                  it

ignore God as our Father, men as our brothers, Christ as the Bride

groom of the Church.

                     The Angelic Idea of Man.                        257

   "That this is the case is evident from history; and history is a fair
test. ' By their fruits ye shall know them.' A fair test of doctrines,
though not of individuals. Every man is better and worse than his

Icreed. Even the most heretical are happily inconsistent (as believe,

because the light which lighteth every man, the eternal idea of pure

humanity, which is the image of the Lord God, is too strong for them,
and makes their acts more right -- because more human -- than their

theories). But we may judge of the truth of a doctrine both from its
fruits in the general faith and practice of an age, and from its manifesta

tions in those stronger souls who dare carry things consistently out

wherever       they may lead them.     held  and  carried      out by the Neo-
                this anthropology was
   " Now

Platonists, by Plotinus, Libanius, Hypatia, Isidore, Proclus, and others.

And we know whither it led them. To aristocratic exclusiveness ;

to absolute hatred of anything which looked like a gospel for the

merely human masses ; to the worship of the pure and absolute intel

lect, and the confusion of it with the understanding ; to the grossest

polytheism, and image worship, as a means of supplying that void

which they themselves had made, by trying to have nothing between

themselves and heaven ! To theurgy, and all such sorts of spasmodic

attempts at miracle-working, in order to give themselves, when they had

thrown away the evidence and teaching which they thought gross and

material, some sort of evidence and teaching, any mere signs and won

ders, to assure their exhausted faculties, tired of fluttering in the vacuum
of ' pure devotion,' that the whole was not a dream, and finally-- utter

Iscepticism. I appeal to history whether my account is not correct. And
   appeal also to history whether exactly the same phases, in exactly the

same order, but with far more fearful power, did not develop themselves

in the mediaeval Church, between the eleventh and sixteenth century,
ending in the lie of lies -- the formulised and organised scepticism of
Jesuitry. And I do assert, that the cause of that development was the
same in both -- the peculiar anthropologic theory which made an angel
Ithe ideal of a man, and therefore celibacy his highest state.
                                                                     only ask

you to read carefully the life of St. Francis of Assisi (not in the eclectic
Sir James Stephen, still less in that canting and fact-concealing Alban
Butler, but in old Surius himself, or in any of the almost contempo

Iraneous lives published by his disciples), and you will, as do, love,

reverence, and all but adore the man ; but you will see that all which

made him unmanly, superstitious and everything which we abhor, sprang

evidently, and in his case (being a genius) consciously, from his notion

of  "whAantda   man  was, and what he ought  to be.
               from                          a prediction
                     Ithese grounds venture                or  two.  God knows

258 Charles Kingsley.

I have seen enough of all this to see somewhat at least where it leads.
I IFor several years of my life it was the question which felt must
If Ieither conquer utterly or turn papist and monk.
I Ilittle light,                                           give you some
                 can assure you      bought it dear.
                                                      I, too, have held,

one by one, every doctrine of the extreme High Church party, and

faced    their consequences.  then,  that  if  that   party  persist  in their
           does seem to me,
   " It

adoption of the Romish and Neo-Platonist anthropology, they must, at

least the noble  spirits of them,  follow  it out to  the same conclusions.
   " There will  be a lessening    sense   of God
                                                      as a Father-- or of that
word Father meaning anything real -- till we shall see, as we do in
Romish books of devotion, and in Romish practice, the Fatherhood of

God utterly forgotten, and the prayer which declares it turned into

a parrot-like charm --as if for the very purpose of not recollecting its

blessed news. And in proportion as their own feelings towards their

children become less sacred in their eyes, they will be less inclined to

impute such feelings in God towards them ; they will not be able to
conceive forgiveness, forbearance, tender patience and care on His part,

and will receive the spirit of bondage again unto fear. In proportion

as they think their relation to their own children is not an absolute and

eternal one, they will find a difficulty in conceiving their relation to God
to be so. They will conceive it possible to lose the blessing even of the
name of God's children. They will resort to prayers and terrors to
recover a lost relationship to God, which, if their own children employed

towards them, they would consider absurd in reason, and insulting to

parental love.

  I I" Do say they will ? Alas ! may not say they do so already ?

   " Then there will be an increasing confusion about our Blessed Lord.

They will, thanks be to His Spirit, and the grace of the sacraments,
which are never in vain, still regard Him as the ideal of humanity. But

they will only see as much of that ideal as their sense of the term
humanity allows them. It will be, therefore, those passages of our
Lord's life, those features of His temporary stay on earth, which seem
most angelic, or non-human, which will be most prized. In all in which
He approaches the Romish saint, they will apprehend and appreciate
Him. But they will not appreciate Him as the Word who said to
Adam and Eve, ' Increase and multiply and replenish the earth ; ' as the

tutelary God of the patriarchs, with their rich animal life ; as the Lord
of the marrying, farming, fighting Jews, with their intense perception of

the sanctity of family, hereditary and national ties, and the dependence
of those on the very essence of the Lord ; as the Lord of Cyrus and
Nebuchadnezzar, the Lord of all the nations of the earth, who is the

                                Sympathy of the Virgin.                                                             259

example and the sanction, the ideal fulfiller, not merely of the devotee,
but of every phase of humanity. They will less and less appreciate the
gospel of ' Husbands love your wives, as Christ also loved the Church,

and gave Himself for it.' Not that they will not hold the doctrine of

the Blessed One being the Bridegroom. But having forgotten what a

bridegroom means, they will not shrink with horror from calling Him
the ' Bridegroom of each individual soul '-- an unscriptural and illogical
Idoctrine (I will not

of His name which
                                use the words which    might about                         it,  for the sake
                                                      to mystics, both                          Romish and
                      I, '        involves) --common

Puritan, the last phase of which may be seen in Frank Newman'sit

Unitarian book, The Soul, her sorrows and aspirations                                      !    You are as
                                                                                             '

well aware as         that the soul talked of as bride -- as feminine by
                                               is                     a

nature, whatever be the sex of its possessor. This                                         is   indeed only

another form of the desire to be an angel. For                                       if  you analyse the

common conception of an angel, what                is        as the pictures consistently
                                                        it,

eno"uBguht  represent           but     woman, unsexed?
             in the mean         time,  there will be revulsions
                      it,
                                 a

                                                                                     from the passionate,

amatory language which mystics apply to our Lord, as irreverent, not
                                                                                                             if

worse. There will be recollections that He Lord and God. The
                                                                      is

distance between His angelic, and therefore incomprehensible humanity,

and the poor, simple, struggling, earth-bound soul of the worshipper,

already painful enough, will widen more and more, till He becomes the                if a                           a I is a
tremendous Judge of Michael Angelo's picture --not God-man, but
God-angel terrible thought -- Who shall propitiate Him -- the saintly,
              ;                         ?
the spotless, the impassable                '  He would feel for us He could com
                   '
prehend us, for He loved us to the death but how can He compre
                                                   ?
hend us poor mean creatures             ?      How dare we tell Him the meannesses
                                                        It
we hardly dare confess to ourselves                               !;Oh for some tender ear, into

which we should not be ashamed to pour our tale. One like us in all
things -- of like passions with ourselves.
                                                                    must be woman. We so
weak and woman-like -- we who call our souls 'she,' we dare not tell                 aa
man -- at least till he unsexed by celibacy but even the priest                           a
                      is                is
                             is              a                                               a

                                                   a                                                    !
                                                                    a;                                    '

                                                                                  !
cold, uncertain,                sinful like ourselves. Oh for virgin mother, in
'

   is
wh"oseGfoacteo      we should never see        anything but                        pitying smile             whom
                    the blessed Virgin,'       said Romish                         priest, to lady

love well. She, you know,                          woman, and can understand all

woman's feelings.'    I,          your head had once rested on lover's bosom,
                         if
   "Ah thought
!

and your heart known the mighty stay of man's affection, you would havea
learnt to go now in your sore need, not to the mother, but to the Son --
not to the indulgent virgin, but to the strong man, Christ Jesus -- stern

                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                                 2

260 Charles Kingsley.

because loving --who does not shrink from punishing, and yet does it as

a man would do
   " My dear sir,
it                             mighty to save.'                                            which  that  party         must     run--to
                      it,   there the course

                            '
                                   is
Mariolatry; and the noblest and tenderest hearts of them will plunge

most deeply and passionately, idolatrously into it. Not that they will

find sufficient. They, too, will have to eke out the human mediation

!....'which the soul of man requires, by saints, and their relics. They, too,
will find accesses of blank doubt                                                          Nothing between them and

heaven.' True but heaven will in that case look far far off at times.
                !
IfThere must be 'signs,' 'evidences,' 'palpable proofs' of something'
invisible and spiritual.                                     their children, their parents, their country,
                       ;
are none --perhaps images may be, or still better, miracles, one would
                                                                                                        !!
but appear              The course of nature does not testify of God.' Then
                                                                                                            a
something supernatural may. The laws of nature are not the pure
                                                                     '                                          if

                                                                        is

                                                                                     !

                                                                                 I
eternal children of the pure eternal Father.' Oh for something to
break them -- to show that there something besides ourselves, and our

own handywork, in the universe. Oh for an ecstatica, weeping image,
                                                                       help them --and us
b"leedhinagve   picture                                      . . God
                 more                                        on other  points, but dare say no
a                                                                                                                              without

   I
                                               !
                                                     .
                                                          .
                            to  say                                                                                      more

your request."

                                                             TO THE SAME.

                                                                                        EVERSLEY, August, 1851.

" The only causes of my late silence were my own going abroad and

Mrs. Kingsley's illness. Since wrote last have got to regard this
                                                             a                             I

                                                                II I                             ' is
                                                                                                                  a
movement towards Rome as rather painfully curious, than formidable.          it

believe more and more that the real danger                                              '               from very opposite
I
    I                       written little                             book Phaeton               about all              that.
qua"rterc,onafnedss  have    the prospects                              of the Church,            especially              while  Pilate
                      that

and Herod make friends in the columns of the Times to crush convo
                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                   '

cation, are dreary enough --but regard the Catholic Faith as immortal

and Protean, and the moment see slain in one form, expect to see
                                                                                                        I

   arise another so that my only very serious apprehensions are for my
own tithes, of which expect to be dispossessed during the next twenty
years, by combination of the Manchester School and their antipodes,
it                      ;

        I a in           I

the Evangelicals, because dare to believe in their plain sense the words
                                                             I
                                                                                                                         In that case
                                                                           in                                            there also --
which swore nine years ago the Baptismal
may meet in Australia -- and probably find Mr.
....to                                                                                            Service.            *

we                                                                                                       *
                                                                                                  *
                                                                                                     *

and very good company too                                                      At least, one has the comfort of not

being immortal."

                   CHAPTER X.

                                                         1851.

                                                      Aged 32.

LETTERS ON UNIVERSITY REFORM AND TEETOTALISM-- OPENING OF THE

     GREAT EXHIBITION -- ATTACK OK "YEAST" IN THE " GUARDIAN" AND REPLY

      -- LECTURE ON AGRICULTURE -- OCCURRENCE IN A LONDON CHURCH --
      GOES TO GERMANY -- LETTER FROM MR. JOHN MARTINEAU.

                             He has outsoared the shadow of our night,
                             Envy and calumny and hate and pain
                                 Can touch him not, and torture not again ;
                              He is secure ! and now can never mourn

                        A heart grown cold, a head grown grey in vain.
                                                                                      Shelley.

   We should be wary what persecution we raise against the living labours of public
men ; how we spill the seasoned life of man preserved and stored up in books j since
Vic see a kind of homicide may be committed, sometimes a martyrdom.

                                                                                  Milton.

CHAPTER X.

  The year of the Great Exhibition, which began with distress

and discontent in England, and ended with a Revolution in
Paris, was a notable one in the life of Charles Kingsley. His
parochial work was only varied by the addition of new plans of

draining the parish at the points where low fever had prevailed ;
which he successfully carried out without help from any sani
tary board. " Hypatia " was begun as a serial in " Fraser's
Magazine." " Santa Maura " and several shorter poems were
written. He contributed to the "Christian Socialist" eight
papers on " Bible Politics, or God justified to the People," four

on the "Frimley Murder," three entitled "The Long Game," a
few ballads and sonnets, and " The Nun's Pool," which had been
rejected by the publishers of " Politics." He preached two
sermons in London, one of which made him notorious, and

occasionally he attended the Conferences of the Promoters of
Association. He crossed the Channel for the first time. His

friendship with Frederika Bremer, the Swedish novelist, and

with Miss Mitford, date from this year.

   In January he writes to Mr. Maurice about the new romance

which was dawning upon his imagination.

                                Eversley, January 16, 1851.

"A thousand thanks for all your advice and information, which
IIencourages me to say more.
don't know how far shall be able
Ito write much for the ' Christian Socialist.' Don't fancy that am
Ieither lazy or afraid. But, if do not use my pen to the uttermost
I Iin earning my daily bread,
shall not get through this year.
Iam paying off the loans which
                                got to meet the expenses of re

pairing and furnishing; but, with an income reduced this year by

more than 200/., having given up, thank God, that sinecure clerkship,

264 Charles Kingsley.

and having had to return ten per cent, of my tithes, owing to the agri

Icultural distress, have also this year, for the first time, the opportunity,

and therefore the necessity, of supporting a good school. My available

income, therefore, is less than 400/. I cannot reduce my charities, and

I am driven either to give up my curate, or to write, and either of these
Ialternatives, with the increased parish work, for have got either

lectures or night school every night in the week, and three services
Ion Sunday, will demand my whole time. What to do unless get pupils
I know
         not. Martineau       leaves me    in June.     romance  of the beginning
   " My  present notion is     to write a   historical

of the fifth century, which has been breeding in my head this two years.

But how to find time I know not. And if there is a storm brewing, of
Icourse shall have to help to fight the Philistines. Would that I had
I Iwings as a dove, then would flee away and be at rest ! have written
Ithis selfish and egotistical letter to ask for your counsel ; but do not

forget that you have your own troubles. My idea in the romance is to set

forth Christianity as the only really democratic creed, and philosophy,

above all, spiritualism, as the most exclusively aristocratic creed. Such

has been my opinion for a long time, and what I have been reading

lately confirms it more and more. Even Synesius, 'the philosophic'

bishop, is an aristocrat by the side of Cyril. It seems to me that such a

book might do good just now, while the Scribes and Pharisees, Christian

and heathen, are saying, ' This people, which knoweth not the law, is
Iaccursed
           '  Of English subjects I can write no more just now.  have
         !

exhausted both my stock and my brain, and really require to rest by
I

     a it

            I
                                                        ;
                                                                                                '
                                         I is
                                                              if
                                                                                                                          '
                                                                  I
                                                                                                                            it,
                                                                                     in I
turning to some new field, in which there               richer and more pictur

esque life, and the elements are less confused, or rather, may be handled

more in the mass than English ones now.                 have long wished to do

something antique, and get out my thoughts about the connection of

the old world and the new Schiller's Gods of Greece expresses,

think, tone of feeling very common, and which finds its vent
modern Neo-Platonism -- Anythingarianism. But you think ought

not, will not.  will obey your order."

   The two next letters refer to some correspondence in the
" Spectator " on the state of the Universities, where he and others
believed there was wide-spreading spirit of unbelief among the
undergraduates, and that among other books, Strauss's " Life of
Christ " was one constantly to be found in their hands. Of this
fact he thought the authorities ought not only to be aware, but
that was their duty to take some measures to meet the evil.
it
                           a

                   State of the Universities.        265

He urged the necessity of a Commission to inquire into abuses,
and to consider the justice of excluding Dissenters from Oxford
and Cambridge. His letters, however, only called forth strong

denials, and brought down more abuse on himself.

                   TO GEORGE BRIMLEY, ESQ.

                           EVERSLEY, 1st Sunday in Lent, 1851.

   " Not a word from you amid all this shower of bullying about my

Iluckless letters. wish you would write to me honestly, and say what you
like, however unpleasant. I shall listen to you, because you, like myself,
Ihave had to hunt and fight for a faith, instead of buying one at ' y8

shops ' ready-made. But hear that you agree with the whole ' Philis-
I Iterei' about them. Be it so.
                           can see one mistake have made, at
least, and that is about Strauss. I know the state of men's minds after
they leave Cambridge and Oxford (your friend * * * confirmed my

opinion on that point), and I thought, from what I had heard of both

universities, that at Cambridge as well as at Oxford, much of the seed of
I Iunbelief was sown there.
                           find, from unanimous consent, that am
mistaken -- that is to say, with regard to Trinity, at least ; and that, of
Icourse, is the college of which one hears most. So that have com

mitted the unpardonable sin of thinking the men earnester and deeper

than they were, and more anxious to deliver themselves from carbonic
                           Well, at all events, I have made a
acid and asphyxia

mistake ; and my letters are a failure, and a wind-egg, to any practical

purpose ; and though I have retreated, in good order, hitting out right

and left, and finally vaulting the ropes, and not being knocked over

I Ithem, yet am beaten. There is no denying it. Let me explain what
mean. Except on the point of fact about Strauss, I consider myself right.

I was wrong, in hitting so hard a blow without having counted the cost
of following it up. I Iwas wrong in fancying that could meddle with

so great a question without far more knowledge of specific facts, far
I Imore experience of the temper of the ' uAg wroKfijwVij ' than
Iought to have held my tongue and thought the more.  had.

                                                     have had a

very severe and humiliating lesson. You can hardly guess how severe,

I Iand all the more so, because am utterly convinced that am in the

right. Of this hereafter.
I" As to the temper and tone of what
Ifierce,                              wrote, whereon folks are
          have nothing to say, but that, if half my theory was true, it
would excuse my writing passionately -- not excuse me to this generation
-- or to a university in the temper of ' deadness, flatness, and epicurism,'
which it confesses to. Of course, if this generation only ' deplores as

  266 Charles Kingsley.

  unfortunate accidents ' the flagrant profligacy of undergraduates, the

  necessity of private tutors, debts, the scale of expenses, the exclusion
  of the poor, the exclusion of dissenters -- in short, the exclusion of three-
  fourths of the nation from a university education, the state of religious

  worship and theological teaching, the distance between teachers

  Iand taught -- can say nothing. Only I believe an old superstition,

  that things are either right or wrong, and that right means what God

  commands, and loves, and blesses ; and wrong what He forbids and

  hates, and makes a curse and a road of ruin to those who follow
         I                                                                                                                                          and

                       a
                                     is

                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                 '

                                                                                             it
                                                                                                    it;
  therefore no language too strong to warn men from the road to ruin,

  because you cannot tell into what fearful descensus averni     may lead

  them.        had superstition that the universities were going down that

  descent, that they were almost unconsciously on the edge of destruction

  as useless solecisms. Everything which every one has written or said

  about these letters, true or false, has confirmed me in that opinion.
                               I
                                           I

                                               I

                                                                      is

                                                          I it
                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                              I
                                                                                     if I
  expected to be reviled, by Dons and undergraduates. No one likes to

  be told that they are all wrong.         had hoped that some here and there

  would listen to me.          have no proof that none will not but still,

  such men as you think me wrong, take as sign that have

  tried to pick green fruit, that the time                 not come, and retire to

  chew the cud, and try again some day, when know more about the

  matter. As for hard words, they neither make for me or against

  me. There never was any one who spoke out the truth yet on the
                                    howling idiot for his pains --atfirst.
  earth, who was not called        say one of two things, either we want
    " Now                      a           '
                                  '
                                               is, if I
               want men to                                                    '                                                                     no
             I                                                                                     a

                I
                            '
  commission,' or we want commission, but only to examine interested
                               a

  witnesses.'                can understand either of those two propositions.

A jumble of both, which may mean neither,                  cannot understand.

Will you give me frankly your opinion on this and all points?

'I  have my practical remedies in petto, and               you choose to hear

  them you shall but am not very sanguine about them, and still less
               ;

                    I

  sanguine since this noise. My conclusion                 being on all points

 superstitious man,' that God does not choose me to meddle in this
matter, being not wise and good enough; that He has therefore
allowed me to fall into a slight mistake of fact, in order to cripple

me, and that therefore must mind other work for the present whereof
                               I                              ;

I   have plenty."                      J.

                   [TO REV.                LLEWELLYN DAVIES.

                                                                                    EVERSLEY, February 28, 1851.I

   " You and have been hammering away at each other lately through
the medium of the Spectator and what our mutual friends tell
                               '
                                                       :'

                                                       if

        Correspondence in " Spectator."                       267

me be true, we both are on the same side at heart, and are using the
strength which might assist each other to do good, in counteracting
each other's forces with a very small resultant, which, to say the least, is

not expedient.

  I" Now you, as think, struck me unprovoked, when I meant nothing

I Ibut good, and acted (right or wrong no matter) to the best of my know
ledge.  returned the blow as hard as could, my rule being to smash,
Iif possible, all wilful obstacles to anything have in hand.
If" you do not think our mutual ' honour' satisfied by this exchange
of shots, of course you will riposte at the first opportunity ; and I shall

riposte or not in my turn, according as your blow interferes with what
I have in hand or not. But if you are of my opinion, it will be much
wiser for us both to pull together, or at least try if we cannot do so.

IAnd therefore tender on paper the right hand of full reconciliation,
Iwhich you may accept or not, as you will ; only as tender it honestly

and utterly, do you accept it so, or not at all.
" Mr.
        tells me that you are honest and generous at heart, and
Ifthat you have a clear sense of the real evils of the university.
                                                                    so,
Iand if have misconceived those evils in any way (the existence of
some evil being an allowed thing), will you give me your full and frank

opinion as to what is the matter ? Your words shall be strictly and

inviolably private ; my only wish is to get at truth, and help to point

Iout the way to remedies. And if you are the man which am told you

are, you will find little difficulty in co-operating with me. For surely,

it is a sacred duty to give facts to every man who asks for them ; if he
makes a wrong use of them afterwards, the sin is his, not yours."

        TO GEORGE BRIMLEY, ESQ.

        Eversley, Monday, October, 1S51.
I" cannot sufficiently thank you, and Rintoul too, for your gallant
letter in the 'Spectator.' It is wonderful to watch how God sends
Ia man friends and encouragement just as he wants them.
                                                              have to
Ithank you too for your promise to continue the battle, though hardly
think it necessary. All these attacks from the most opposite quarters

give me heart ; because they make me more and more sure that we are

really, as we hoped to do, probing at some root-lie, and devil's-

mesothet, below all mere party cries, and common to them all. We

Ihave touched some really deep cancer, do believe ; and to do that

is worth folios of ' articulate wind,' blown at one by people who are either

knaves and fools, and therefore count neither way; or good mistaken

people, who will shake hands with us, when they understand us better.

268 Charles Kingsley.

  I" am quite astonished at the steady-going, respectable people who

approve more or less of ' Alton Locke.' It was but the other night, at
the Speaker's, that Sir * * * * * * , considered one of the safest Whig

traditionists in England, gave in his adherence to the book in the
kindest terms. Both the Marshalls have done the same -- so has Lord

Ashburton. So have, strange to say, more than one ultra-respectable
IfHigh-Tory squire -- so goes the world.
                                                 you do anything above

party, the true-hearted ones of all parties sympathize with you. And
all I want to do
a'                            to awaken the good men of all opinions to the

            I
                         is,
necessity of shaking hands and laying their heads together, and to look

for the day when the bad of all parties will get their deserts, which

they will, very accurately, before Mr. Carlyle's friends, The Powers'
                                                          '
and The Destinies' have done with them.                              is  no use

   " The article have not seen, and don't intend to. There

for hot-tempered and foul-mouthed man like myself praying not to be

led into temptation, and then reading, voluntarily, attacks on himself

from the firm of Wagg, Wenham, and Co. But you think ought
                                                 if

                                                               I

to answer the attack formally, pray tell me so.
   " Hypatia grows, little darling, and am getting very fond of her;
                                 a
but the period    is  very dark, folks having been given to lying then, as
                                        I
well as now, besides being so blind as not to see the meaning of their

own time (perhaps, though, we don't of ours), and so put down, not

what we should like to know, but what they liked to remember. Never

theless there are materials for grand book. And  fail in
                                                 ; iIf                   may
                                                             iIt,
as well give up writing-- perhaps the best thing for me though, thanks

to abuse-puffs, my books sell pretty steadily."

   The "Christian     Socialist" movement   had  been severely attacked  ;"
in an article in      the " Edinburgh "    and   in the " Quarterly

in both articles Communism and Socialism were spoken of as
identical, and the author of " Alton Locke " was pointed at as

the chief offender and,
                 it
" Though" (says Mr. Hughes), " Charles Kingsley faced his adver;

saries bravely,    must not be inferred that he did not feel the
attacks and misrepresentations very keenly. In many respects, though

housed in a strong and vigorous body, his spirit was an exceed

ingly tender and sensitive one.  have often thought that at this time
                                 I

                                      it
his very sensitiveness drove him to say things more broadly and inci

sively, because he was speaking as were somewhat against the grain,
and knew that the line he was taking would be misunderstood, and

would displease and alarm those with whom he had most sympathy.

   His Sensitiveness.                                        269

For he was by nature and education an aristocrat in the best sense of

the word, believed that a landed aristocracy was a blessing to the
country, and that no country would gain the highest liberty without

such a class, holding its own position firmly, but in sympathy with the
people. He liked their habits and ways, and keenly enjoyed their

society. Again, he was full of reverence for science and scientific men,

and specially for political economy and economists, and desired eagerly

to stand well with them. And it was a most bitter trial to him to find

himself not only in sharp antagonism with traders and employers of

labour, which he looked for, but with these classes also.
   " On the other hand, many of the views and habits of those with

whom he found himself associated were very distasteful to him. In a

new social movement, such as that of association as it took shape in

1849-50, there is certain to be great attraction for restless and eccentric

persons, and in point of fact many such joined  a it.  The beard move

ment was then in its infancy, and any man except dragoon who wore

hair on his face was regarded as dangerous character, with whoma     it

was compromising to be seen in any public place -- person in sympathy
                                                a

with sansculottes, and who would dispense with trousers but for his fear

of the police. Now whenever Kingsley attended          a  meeting of the

promoters of Association in London, he was sure to find himself in the

midst of bearded men, vegetarians, and other eccentric persons, and

the contact was very grievous to him. As we shall not be abused
         '

               if

enough,' he used to say, for what we must say and do, without being'
saddled with mischievous nonsense of this kind.' To less sensitive
men the effect of eccentricity upon him was almost comic, as when ona

one occasion he was quite upset and silenced by the appearance of a

bearded member of Council at an important deputation, in straw hat

and blue plush gloves. He did not recover from the depression pro
duced by those gloves for days. Many of the workmen, who always

rise to the top at first, who were most prominent in the Associations

were almost as little to his mind--windy inflated kind of persons, with

a  lot of fine phrases in their mouths which they didn't know the

meaning of.

   " But in spite of all that was distasteful to him in some of its sur

roundings, the co-operative movement (as        now called) entirely
      it
                         it
                                is
approved itself to his conscience and judgment, and mastered him so

that he was ready to risk whatever had to be risked in fighting its

battle. Often in those days, seeing how loath Charles Kingsley was to
take in hand much of the work which Parson Lot had to do, and how
fearlessly and thoroughly he did after all, one was reminded of the

'Iold Jewish prophets, such as Amos the herdsman of Tekoa, -- was no

270 Charles Kingsley.

I Iprophet, neither was a prophet's son ; but was an herdsman, and a
gatherer of sycamore fruit : and the Lord took me as I followed the

flock, and said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel.' "*

   Among other topics discussed in the columns of the " Chris
tian Socialist " was teetotalism. On this Mr. Kingsley wrote
a letter to the editor, which was not inserted. It is so exhaus

tive that it is best to give it in full.

I" have watched, for some time, with increasing anxiety, the
Iteetotal dispute in your columns.
                                    am exceedingly sorry that so much

space should be taken up therein by a subject which has nothing to do

with socialism, and which I have always feared, and now fear more than

ever, will be a root of bitterness and dissociation between men who

ought to love, respect, and work with each other. It seems to me that
if the teetotal party persevere in their new eleventh commandment, the

thing can only issue, some fifty years hence, in a great social split

between water-drinkers and beer-drinkers, each party despising and
reviling the other : the beer-drinkers calling the water-drinkers ' con

ceited puritans, and manichees and ascetics ;' the water-drinkers calling

the beer-drinkers, 'flabby, pot-bellied, muddle-headed, disgusting old
brutes,' and other such Christian and gentle appellations, the truth of
which will, of course, be tested by hard knocks, and we shall have mutual

rioting and persecution. And then, on my honour, unless the teetotalers

Ishow a more humble, gentle, and tolerant spirit than is common among

them, shall advise beer-drinkers, like myself and Mr. Hughes, either to

flee the country, or, if their cloth allows them, which mine does not,

prove by self-defence that a man can value his beer, and thank God for

it with a good conscience, as tens of thousands do daily, and yet feel as

tight about the loin, and as wiry in the arm, as any teetotaler in

England.
I" Honestly, I am jesting in earnest.
Iwith extreme dread.                   regard this teetotal movement

                      deeply sympathise with the horror of our English
I Idrunkenness that produced it.
                      honour every teetotaler, as honour

every man who proves by his actions that he possesses high principle,

and manful self-restraint. I think Mr. Walford's reminder, that every

pot of beer would buy so much land, is most honourable to him, and

that the man who abstained from liquor, or from anything else to get

land, would do a manful thing in giving up a small and temporary good

for a great and permanent one. That a man should be a teetotaler

          * Preface by Tom. Hughes, Esq., to " Alton Locke."

                                Teetotalism.                               271

rather than a drunkard needs no proof. Also that a man should go about

in a sack rather than be a fop, and waste time and money on dress. But

I think temperance in beer, like temperance in clothes, is at once a more

Irational and  a higher virtue, either than sackcloth or water.     beget  that

   " dread     the spread of teetotalism -- first, because it will

subtlest of sins, spiritual pride, and Pharisaism. Its first founders, like

Ithe first founders of every asceticism, may be, and as far as have con

versed with them, are pure, humble, and self-denying men. So were the

first Fakeers, the first Mohammedan ascetics, the first monks, the first

Quakers. But no one can have read much of the history of asceticisms,
Christian or other (and teetotalism is one and a most important one),
without seeing the evils to which they lead; without seeing that they are

an evil spirit dressed up as an angel of light, utterly unconsciously to the

good men who are allured by them ; and that, after a few generations, the

self-avenging Nemesis comes; the evil spirit drops his mask, and appears

as Pharisaism, sectarianism, priestcraft, and superstition, saying to the

many who are content to be mere men and women, and not monks,

IQuakers, teetotalers and what not, ' Stand by, am holier than thou ;'

' This people who knoweth not the law are accursed.' And the evil

spirit always seems to me to choose for his starting point some good

gift of God which has been abused, and by the subtlest possible appeal
to human pride, to whisper, ' It is not thou, the man, who hast been
wrong ; it is the thing itself which is wrong. It is not that thou hast

sinned in misusing the thing by thy own self-will and luxury ; no, no

blame attaches to thee, the thing itself is devilish, and thou, having been

taught, not by thyself, but by thy forefathers, to use couldst not help
                                             is

                                                I

                                                       it

                                                         I' it,

                                                                                          ;

                                                                          I
the misery which            has brought on thee. Give up, and thou wilt be
perfect, and have
          I                 right to glorify thyself and say-- am not as other

men are.              a it
               am above wearing fine clothes.  am above marrying.

am above drinking beer.' So the blame comfortably shifted off man's

shoulders on to those of nature, of his ancestors, of God and in the

meantime, his mind turned away from the spiritual righteousness tois
this new righteousness of his own --from love, justice, wisdom, industry,

to the mere outward material act of abstaining from some outward

material thing. Oh, my teetotal brothers, in God's name, as one who

has studied long and deeply the history of ancient asceticisms, and sees

from them the false road on which you, with the best intentions in the

world, and for which love and honour you, are surely travelling,
entreat you to pause and beware. What doth the Lord require of you,

but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?'
You are trying to do so now: your pupils fifty years hence will not.
          I
                      I

                                                                  '

                                                                        I
Even now see the evil fruits of your self-chosen eleventh commandment

272 Charles Kingsley.

growing up in you. You are not doing justly when you try to wrest

Scripture and history to your own cause. You are not loving mercy

when you try to exclude the beer-drinker from the blessings of associa

tion, and keep him the slave of the publican's poison, and the brewer's

high prices. You are not walking humbly with your God, when you

make a moral duty of a material abstinence, when you set up as a com

mandment that which He has not commanded, when you call the natural

processes of His material world, ' of their father, the devil.'
I" have no doubt that you do not mean to be either Pharisees or
IManichees.
              have no doubt that T. S. means nothing but good, and

abstains from intoxicating liquors, as he says, because he believes them

to be most unlawful. But so did the early monks abstain from marriage.

The rise of mediaeval celibacy was exactly analogous to the rise of
modern teetotalism. The sexual passion in the East had been grossly
abused. Lust and profligacy had been the parents of every form of

bestiality, cruelty, and horror. The East was one vast brothel and

Gomorrha. The monks of the Thebaid could have made out, and did,

I assert as a fact, make out a ten times better case against the use of

marriage than we can against the use of fermented liquors. They there

fore indulged in exactly the same fierce denunciations against their use

in which the teetotalers now indulge in their own cause. They, like

the teetotalers, confounded the use and the abuse, preached total

abstinence, and condemned marriage altogether. Not that they did
not allow it to the masses-- that to their own relations -- for, like the
              it
teetotalers, they were almost all men of the working class. Theyis, is,
                           it
allowed  it,  and cursed it. They show in their writings about just the
                                                   I
same inconsistency as the teetotalers do. It was wrong, and not wrong,
                                                                  it
devilish and not devilish. That  was wrong for them, because they,

having superior light, knew to be wrong; but not for the poor brutalized

masses, who had not strength of mind to turn monk. In short, they

were better than their neighbours, more than men.  assert the identity

of the two cases. The old monks and early fathers proved from logic,

reason, Scripture, science, and everything else, that marriage was hor

rible, beastly, ruinous -- the parent of every misery and evil on earth.

They had serious doubts whether married persons could be finally saved.

They discovered that Eve was virgin in Paradise, and that marriage in
              a

Genesis does not mean marriage, just as the teetotalers have that our

Lord did not drink fermented liquors, and that wine in the Gospels does
not mean wine. And they had their reward. The masses, whose small

spiritual discernment makes them attach an inordinate value to outward

signs of virtue, worshipped them for abstaining from that from which

they could not abstain themselves. They would not listen to married
                                                                 a

                                                     Teetotalism.                          273

preacher. It is all stuff about Pope and bishops having compelled the
celibacy of the clergy. It was the monks --sprung and recruited from
the working classes -- who compelled
                                                  ;                         by the help of the married, and

                                                                       it,
very often profligate mob as some half century hence the teetotalers,

aided by the drunkards, may be driving beer-drinking preachers from

their pulpits, as not pure enough to be the guides and teachers of man

kind. Believe me, my teetotal friends, every gin-sot in London will
help you at that work. The many always find comfort to their souls
in the thought -- Well, at least, we do not abstain, we know that
                  is                                     if                 a
                                                               it                       a
                              '
abstinence right, and we will prove by compelling our teachers to

abstain. So we go to balls and parties but we won't let the parsons.
                                                         ;

IfWe are married ourselves but we are too pure to let the clergy be so.;

    we are sots, we will take very goodcare that only teetotaler shall

preach to us.'                                       is  the future horoscope of tee-totalism,

   " There, my friends, there

drawn by fair Baconian induction from the example of all Pharisaisms

and asceticisms that the world has ever seen                                     Yet not quite the

full horoscope. There will be from time to time reactions, as there

were in the case of monkery, all the world knows. The substitute

with the teetotalers of a.d. 1900, will be,                                      apprehend, laudanum.
                                                                            ;
expect, and hereby warn all friends, that the sale of laudanum will
I                                                                             I

                                               ;
increase henceforth rapidly. There will be always, as in monkery,

some who will keep up the present pure and sincere standard of

the original school but the mass will, as usual, be contented with

the form of the thing without its reality they will either break out

now and then, on the sly, into excesses all the more beastly from
previous restraint, or fly to opium -- the most enervating and brutalizing

of "pWoishoenns.  talked of wresting History and Scripture to the cause of
                  II

                           '
teetotalism, was sorry to have to make such an accusation. But, as

Aristotle said, Though both are my friends, the truth and Plato,
                                                                            if

                                                                                           is

                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                                is
better to prefer the former.' Who Mr. B*** may be, who gives lectures

to prove that the wines of the ancients were not intoxicating, know not.

But this know, that such an assertion, offered to any decent classic,
I

                          a
would only provoke smile, and not be considered worthy of refuta

tion. All we know of the wines of the ancients                                   from their writings,

and from the dried syrup found at the bottom of old wine-jars in

Pompeii and Herculaneum, in which, of course, there was no alcohol,

having evaporated through the porous jars ages ago, with the water,
it

               a
leaving very small quantity of sugar and other compounds behind.

And as for the writings of the ancients, they uniformly speak of wines as
Iffermented, exhilarating, intoxicating taken in excess.
                                                         if                                there exists

274 Charles Kingsley.

a passage about non-intoxicating, or drugged Iwines, have never seen

    and have had fair chance of so doing. But have seen, and
it,

      I

                       '
                                    a

                                                    a

                                                         I
every school-boy has seen, thousand passages about intoxicating pure

wines, the acraton methu,' ««mixed wine, such as makes the Cyclops

drunk in Euripides' drama. Every school-boy knows that the ancient

wines of Rome, when old, were so strong and dry, that they had to be

weakened with water, and sweetened with honey, to make drinkable
toddy of them. Every school-boy knows the numberless myths of

Dionusos (Bacchus) the Inspirer,' worshipped because he brought
                  a     hot country) the grape with its intoxicating
from India (from
                     '

qualities, supposed to be divine and supernatural. Is there anything

about drugging wines the thousand and one stories of the Bacchac,in

and the Maenads, and the drunken orgies which took place in the vine

yards themselves in worship of Bacchus                             Is not the commonest
                                                                ?

                                                                           it

thing to see, in bas-reliefs of Bacchanals and Fauns, the drunken figures

squeezing the grape-clusters with their hands into the patera, and drink
ing straightway The conclusion to be drawn from all the old
it
        it                               that they preferred the fresh and fermenting
              is

                                ?
                                    is,
sculptures and myths

juice, as more intoxicating than when the fermentation was complete.

For then    champagne, disengaging its gases, and producing that

rapid intoxication, followed by little or no sickness on recover

ing, for which sparkling wines have been famous for ages among
luxurious sots. As for drunkenness, in the common sense of the term,

on unmixed wine, every record of the Greeks and Romans, from Homer
down to Juvenal, full of proving that T. S.'s theory, that drink was

not then synonymous with intoxication, utterly mistaken. As for its
            is                           it,
                                                               is

being customary to boil down wines in Greece or Rome, there but one
answer -- was not. They may have made syrup now and then, why
?                                                                               is
                                         customary part of their vintage, every     a
        it                                                                                     a
not But as for that being                it

schoolboy knows the contrary. As for the sweetness of the grape prea
                                                     is

                                                           it,
venting there being much alcohol in that                           is  a  most curious and unex

pected result, seeing that alcohol made out of sugar and nothing else,

and therefore the more sugar the more alcohol, there be azotized
                                                                          is

                                                                            if
matter enough to ferment all. Where there not, as in Constantia
and Tent wines, the excess of the sugar remains unchanged and the

iswine sweet, but none the less alcoholic for that, the average quantity
                                                                          if

of azote be there to work up the due quantity of sugar. As                      fact,

Constantia and Tent, two of the sweetest wines, and coming from the
hottest vine-climates, are two of the strongest. As for the assertion that
the heat of the climate would prevent the wines of Judaea from being
alcoholic, how comes  it,                in addition to the two last examples, that as

general rule the wines are stronger as you go southwards, the German and

                        Teetotalism.                              275

French wines being far weaker than the wines of Spain, Portugal, and

the Cape ? Liebig will give the reason at once. Because the more

heat the more sugar, and therefore the more alcohol.  It is true,

alcoholic fermentation   requires a low temperature (700 to 8o°)  to go
                        B*** would look over his authorities, or  rather
on well ; and if Mr.

the authorities, again, he would find that the ancients, both in Italy,

Greece, and Judaea, took great care to obtain that low temperature ;

proving thereby that what they wanted was the true vinous fer
mentation -- to get drunk on, of course, muddle-headed beasts as

they were, those old Roman Republicans, and Greek artists and

metaphysicians. For the invariable concomitant of the ancient vine

yard was, not a boiling-house, whereof never was word yet heard,

but a locus, a wine-vat, or subterranean cistern, dug out in the

rock or earth underneath the wine-press, and protected from sun

and air, in which the wine might ferment at that very low and

steady temperature required to produce alcohol. Whether Solomon

had a boiling-house in his vineyard on Lebanon, he does not say;

but we take for granted, that, like every other vine-grower mentioned

in the Old or New Testament, he digged a wine-vat there; for he

got from it wine, which 'caused the lips of them that were asleep

Ito "sTpehaekr.e' is one instance, if remember right, and but one, in Scripture,

in which a vineyard without a wine-vat is mentioned, but that is one

which certainly does not make for Mr. B***'s new theory of ancient
wines, viz., how ' Noah planted a vineyard and drank of the fruit thereof,

and was drunken.' That that history stands there as a warning against

drunkenness we all shall agree. That it stands there to prove that the

wines of Scripture were not intoxicating, is a more difficult thing to

Ifprove. Either let the teetotalers give up Scripture and history
altogether, or quote them fairly.   they choose to say, 'We know

more about this than the old Jews, the Bible is wrong and we

right,' we shall know how to argue with them ; but at present, they must

allow me to say that they are only giving a fresh proof of that well-

known and unfortunate phenomenon, viz., that when a man has made

up his own mind already, he can prove anything whatsoever, from any
facts whatsoever. The divine excellence of celibacy has been proved a

thousand times, and is believed to be proved still by many, from a book

which deals more with marriage, children, and the sexual relations, than

any other book on earth. And now they are going to prove teetotalism

from it too, by a similar process.
I" There, have said my say. I shall make no rejoinder to gainsayers,
Iand submit to be called ' niddering,' being busy.
                                                    shall, as is my un

276 Charles Kingsiey.

Ihappy custom, be accused, as usual, of abetting the very vices which
most hate and deplore, which I desire most anxiously to see amended ;
Iand that because will not be a bigot and a manichee, but only,
Ias far as can, a christian man. Because I am determined, in spite

of the ' Guardian ' not to be a monk, and, in spite of Mr. B***, not to

be a teetotaler. Because I believe every creature and law of God is

good, and that nothing is evil but sin.              First, to agitate
   " The true remedies against drunkenness are two.

and battle for that about which the working classes are so culpably and
blindly lukewarm, -- proper sanitary reform, which, by improving the

atmosphere of their dwellings, will take away the morbid craving of their

stomachs for stimulants, and render temperance easy and pleasant ; and,

secondly, the establishment of small associate home-breweries, in which
a dozen workmen's families, for a fixed capital of three or four pounds,
may brew themselves the best of malt-and-hop-ale at a far lower price

(thanks to free trade), than they can buy the salt and grains-of-Paradise,
and cocculus indicus of the scoundrel publicans, and may free themselves
at once from all that wretched public-house tyranny, and neglect of their

families, to which, those who represent association as too pure to consort

Iwith John Barleycorn, wish in their tender mercies to deliver them over

without escape. And solemnly warn those who try to prevent that
they are, with whatsoever good intentions, simply doing the Devil's

work.
a
                                                                                 it,PARSON LOT.

   While thus arguing against teetotalism, and for the right of

the poor man to wholesome (and therefore not public-house)
beer, he was for ever urging on landlords, magistrates, and house
holders to make stand against the increasing number of public-
houses and consequent increase of drunkenness and demoraliza

tion, which paralyzed the work of the clergy, by refusing licenses
to fresh public-houses, and above all by withholding spirit licences.
He saw no hope for country parishes unless the number of public-
houses could be legally restricted by the area of the parish
and the amount of population to the lowest possible number,

and those placed under the most vigilant police superintend
ence, especially in the outlying districts where they are nests of

poachers and bad characters, and utterly ruinous to the boys,
girls, and young men who frequent them from the moment

they leave school.

                                    A Days Work.                                    277

                                TO THOMAS HUGHES, ESQ.

        II"
                ..

      Because
                  . . You are green in cottoning to me        about our '48 mess.
                        lost nothing-- risked nothing.         You fellows worked
                  why?

      like bricks, spent money, and got midshipman's half-pay (nothing a-day

      and find yourself), and monkey's allowance (more kicks than halfpence).
      II risked no money ; 'cause why, had none ; but made money out of
      Ithe movement, and fame too. I've often thought what a poor creature
              I made ^150 by 'Alton Locke,' and never lost
      was.                                                        a      farthing;   and
              not in spite of, but by the rows, a name and       a       standing   with
      I got,
      Imany a one who would never have heard of me otherwise, and should
      I Ihave been a mendicant if had holloaed when
                                                                 got a facer, while
      I was winning by the cross, though I didn't mean to fight one. No.
      And if I'd had ^100,000, I'd have, and should have, staked and
      lost it all in 1848-50. I should, Tom, for my heart was and is in
                                will beat yet but we ain't the boys, we don't
is it,  and you'll see  it             a;

      see but half the bull's eye yet, and don't see at all the policeman which

        a-going on his beat behind the bull's eye, and no thanks to us.

Still, some somedever, it's in the fates, that association                 the pure
                                                  if
caseine, and must be eaten by the human race
                                                      it

                                                              a
                                                                       is
                                                                 would save its soul

alive, which, indeed, will only don't you think me good fellow for
                           I it     ;

not crying out, when never had more to do than scratch myself, and

away went the fleas. But you all were real bricks and                      you were
                                                              ;

                                                                       if

riled, why let him that without sin cast the first stone, or let me cast
                        iIf
                                is
it    f"orNhoiwm,   and see      don't hit him in the eye.
                   to business      have had sorter kinder sample day.
                                :I                                           Up at

five, to see dying man ought to have been up at two, but Ben King,
                   aa            ;

the rat-catcher, who came to call me, was taken nervous          !        and didn't
                                                                   !
                                                                       !

make row enough was from;              5-30 to 6-30 with the  most dreadful   case
of agony -- insensible to me,          but not to his pain.     Came home,   got a

wash and pipe, and again to him at eight. Found him insensible to
his own pain, with dilated pupils, dying of pressure of the brain--going

any moment. Prayed the commendatory prayers over him, and started
for the river with W. Fished all the morning in roaring N.E. gale,
                                                              a

with the dreadful agonized face between me and the river, pondering

on The mystery. Killed eight on March brown,''                if a       governor,' by
                                                                      '
drowning the flies, and taking 'em out gently to see aught was there,

which the only dodge in north-easter. 'Cause why The wateris                        o' is
                                    a                            ?

warmer than the air-- ergo, fishes don't like to put their noses out
doors, and feeds at home down stairs. It
                                           is     the only wrinkle, Tom.

The captain fished a-top, and caught but three all day. They weren't

going to catch a cold in their heads to please him or any man. Clouds

278 Charles Kingsley.

Iburn up at 1 p.m. I put on a minnow, and kill three more ; should

have had lots, but for the image of the dirty hickory stick, which would
' walk the waters like a thing of life,' just ahead of my minnow. Mem.

never fish with the sun in your back ; it's bad enough with a fly, but

with a minnow it's strychnine and prussic acid. My eleven weighed

together four and a-half pounds, three to the pound ; not good, con
                                      Imany a two-pound fish,
side"riCnogroIllahrayd.--paBsrsaesds                           know.   Where is your
                                       minnow don't suit the   water.
Iwonderful minnow ? Send him one down, or else a horn one, which

Ibelieves in desperate ; but send me something before Tuesday, and

will send you P.O.O. Horn minnow looks like a gudgeon, which is
Ithe pure caseine. One pounder
                                                 caught to-day on the ' March

brown,' womited his wittles,          which was rude, but instructive ;  and among
worms was a gudgeon three              inches long and more. Blow
                                                                         minnows--

gud"gCeoanmeis  the  thing.           at three.  Found my man alive, and, thank
                off  the water

God, quiet. Sat with him, and thought him going once or twice.

What a mystery that long, insensible death-struggle is ! Why should

they be so long about it ? Then had to go to Hartley Row for an

Archdeacon's Sunday-school meeting --three hours useless (I fear)

speechifying and shop ; but the archdeacon is a good man, and works

like a brick beyond his office. Got back at 10.30, and sit writing to
you. So goes one's day. All manner of incongruous things to do,

and the very incongruity keeps one beany and jolly. Your letter was
Idelightful.
                read part of it to W., who says you are the best fellow on
Iearth, to which
                     agre"e.So no more from your sleepy and tired,
                                                               " C. Kingsley."

                                      to Mis wife.

                                                 Eversley Rectory, Whit Monday.

" A most successful Club Day. Weather glorious-- roasting hot.

Quite cool this morning. Preached them a sermon on the 2nd Lesson
                                      of the World.      World as the selfish com
(1 Cor.   xii.) the Church            society -- Church  as the uniting communist
petitive  isolating form of
one --talked Socialism -- quoted Acts
                                                 about the early Christians
          I
                                                              ii.
                                                                                                          a
having all things in common. Spoke of the Millenium and the reali
zation of the Kingdom of God --showed the intimate connection of the

whole with Whitsuntide, and especially the Whit Monday services, and

was greeted after church by the band striking up 'the good time

coming.'        know nothing which has pleased me so much for long

                    A Thunderstorm.                              279

time. The singing was excellent, and altogether all went charmingly.
                  by request -- Smith, Martineau, and I.
IWe dine with them     have been planting vigorously. Heat       intense --

   " Whit Tuesday.

one has to water everything already. This glorious heat makes me

lively and happy in the body in spite of myself; but if a chill whiff of a

Icloud comes, feel all alone at once --a crab without his shell, a cock

without his tail, a dog-fish with a nail through his nose -- all are nothing

in want and helplessness to my feelings. Kiss the darlings for me.

IThank God                         God ! please God !
                                     am glad you were
   " Friday.
only five days more alone, please                                not  at
Such a ducking ! such a storm !

home for that only. We were up fishing on the great lake at Brams-

Ihill : the morning soft, rich, and lowering, with a low, falling glass.

have been prophesying thunder for two or three days. Perch would

Inot bite. went to see E. H. ; and read and prayed with her. How one

gets to love consumptive patients. She seems in a most happy, holy

state of mind, thanks to Smith. Then I went on to L. G. ; sat a long

time with her, and came back to the lake -- day burning, or rather

melting, the country looking glorious. The day as hot without sun, as

Iit generally is with. There appeared a black storm over Reading.

found the luckless John had hooked a huge jack, which broke everything
in a moment, and went off with all his spinning tackle which he prizes

so. Then the storm began to work round in that mysterious way

storms will, and gather from every quarter, and the wind which had
been dead calm S.E., blew N.E., N., W., and lastly as it is doing now,

and always does after these explosions, S.W. And then began such a

sight, and we on the island in the middle of the great lake ! The

lightning was close, and seemed to strike the ground near Sandhurst

again and again, and the crackle and roar and spit and grumble over
Iour heads was awful.
                            have not been in such a storm for four years.
And it rained -- fancy it ! We walked home after an hour's ducking.
I I IIgave John a warm bath and hot wine and water, for
feel sure of his strength.  am not ashamed to say that           did not
                                                                  prayed

a great deal during the storm, for we were in a very dangerous place

in an island under high trees; and it seemed dreadful never to see
Iyou again.  count the hours till Monday. Tell the chicks I found

a real wild duck's nest on the island, full of eggs, and have brought
one home to hatch it under a hen ! Kiss them for me. We dined at

the T.'s last night, and after dinner went birds' nesting in the garden,

and found plenty. Tell Rose a bullfinch's, with eggs, and a chaffinch's,

and an oxeye's, and a thrush's, and a greenfinch's ; and then Ball and

I, to the astonishment and terror of old Mrs. Campbell, climbed to the

top of the highest fir tree there, to hang our hats on the top.

280 Charles Kingsley.

The opening of the Great Exhibition was a matter of deep

interest to him, not only for its own sake, but for that of the

Great Prince who was the prime mover in the undertaking. On

entering the building he was moved to tears ; to him it was like

going into a sacred place, not a mere show as so many felt

and still less                                             mere gigantic shop, in which wares were
it,
                                  a
                                                   it
displayed for selfish purposes, and from mere motives of trade

competition. The science, the art, the noble ideas of universal

peace, universal brotherhood was meant to shadow forth and

encourage, excited him intensely, while the feeling that the

realization of these great and noble ideas was as yet so far off,

and that these achievements of physical science were mere fore-

castings of great but distant future, saddened him as pro
1

   8,
                       a

                                       8

                                                        :
foundly. Four days after the opening, he preached to a London

congregation in St. Margaret's, Westminster, on Psalm lxviii.
                                                           " When He ascended up on high, He led
and Eph. iv.

captivity captive, and received gifts for men, yea, even for His
enemies, that the Lord God might dwell among them" he startled

his hearers by contrasting the wide-spread unbelief of the present

day in God, as the Fount of all science, all art, all the intelli

gence of the nation, with the simple faith of our forefathers.

" If," he said, " a thousand years ago congregation in this place had
                                                           I
                                                                  I

                                                                               a
                                                                                                       in
been addressed upon the text have chosen, they would have had little

difficulty in applying its meaning to themselves, and                                                      mentioning at

once the innumerable instances of those gifts which the King of men had

received for men, innumerable signs that the Lord God was really dwelling

among them. But among those signs, think, they would have mentioned

several which we are not now generally accustomed to consider in such

a light. They would have pointed not merely to the building of

churches, the founding of schools, the spread of peace, the decay of

slavery, but to the importation of foreign literature, the extension of the

....arts of reading, writing, painting, architecture, the improvement of agri
culture, and the introduction of new and more successful methods for the
                                                           If these forefathers of ours could rise
cure of diseases.*

from their graves this day they would be inclined to see our hospitals,in

in our railroads, in the achievements of our physical science, confirma

tion of that old superstition of theirs, proofs of the kingdom of God,

* The sermon was for the Westminster Hospital.

                         The Great Exhibition.                       281

realizations of the gifts which Christ received for men, vaster than any

of which they had dreamed                 And they would say sadly to
us, ' Sons, you ought to be so near to God. He seems to have given

you so much, and to have worked among you as He never worked for

any nation under heaven. How is it that you give the glory to your

selves and not to Him.' . . . For do we give the glory of our great

scientific discoveries to God in any real, honest, practical sense ? There

may be some official and perfunctory talk of God's blessing on our
endeavours ; but there seems to be no real belief in us that God --the
inspiration of God --is the very fount and root of the endeavours them

selves ; that He teaches us these great discoveries ; that He gives us

wisdom to get this wondrous wealth                True, we keep up

something of the form and tradition of the old talk about such things ;

we join in prayer to God to bless our Great Exhibition ; but we do not
believe --we do not believe, my friends -- that it was God who taught men

to conceive, build, and arrange this great exhibition, and our notion of

God blessing      seems to be God's absence from
              ' it,                       '                   hope and trust
                      it                                      it, a
                                                  it ;it
                               ;
                                   a                       a
that God will leave and us alone, and not visit' or us in or in

terfere by any special providences,' by storms, or lightning, or sickness,

or panic, or conspiracy               sort of dim feeling that we could manage                 it

all perfectly well without God, but that as He exists, and has some power

over natural phenomena, which         is  not very exactly defined, we must

notice His existence over and above our work, lest He should become

angry and visit us. And this, in spite of words which were spoken by
'
              '

            it
One whose office was to speak them as the representative of the highest
and most sacred personage in these realms -- words which deserve to be

written in letters of gold on the high places of this city, in which he spoke

of this exhibition as an approach to a more complete fulfilment of the'

great and sacred mission which man has to perform             the world.'*
                                          '

                                                                          in
                                                                                           in
When he told the English people, that man's reason being created the

image of God, he has to discover the laws by which Almighty God

governs this creation and by making those laws the standard of his
'
                       ;
action, to conquer nature to his use, himself divine instrument when
                                          a
                                                   it,

                                                                             ;

                                                                        ;'

                                                                                                              '
he spoke of thankfulness to Almighty God for what He has already given

as the first feeling which that Exhibition ought to excite in us and as

the second, the deep conviction that these blessings can only be realized
'
           '              not, as some would have the rivalry of selfish
in proportion to

                     but proportion to the help which we are prepared
competition       ,  '

                        in

to render to each other and therefore, by peace, love, and ready assist;
ance, not only between individuals, but between all nations of the earth.'

* Speech of H. R.H. The Prince Consort, at the opening of the Great Exhibition.

282 Charles Kingsley.

" We read those great words, but in the hearts of how few, alas !

to judge from our modern creed on such matters, must the really

important and distinctive points of them find an echo ! To how few

does this whole Exhibition seem to have been anything but a matter

of personal gain or curiosity, for national aggrandizement, insular self-
                                I. had almost said, treacherous rivalry
glorification, and selfish

with the very foreigners whom we invited as our guests.* . . . ."

   In the month of May there was a review of his " Yeast" in
the " Guardian " by a well-known Oxford graduate, a strong
partizan of the Anglican party. The review was anonymous,
and contained very grave charges against the book and its writer
-- of heresy --of encouraging profligacy, &c., &c. In speaking of
the characters in " Yeast," the reviewer says :

" Launcelot, a ' healthy animalist,' who has gone through that course

of profligacy which is considered necessary to develope the nature and
"...latest and

course, is
impart breadth and manliness to the intellect of the apostles of the

most philosophical phase        of Christianity                 (this, of
in reference to Christian       socialists). Again --" a   man in the

position of the author of 'Alton Locke,' he be the writer,) commits
                                is
                                            a

                                               (if

                                                                                           .
                                                                                                .
                                                                                                      .'

                                                                                                             a
grave offence when he publishes such book as this. Professing to aim

at religious earnestness and high morality, its tendencies are really to the

destruction of both             It the countenance the writer gives to the

worst tendencies of the day, and the manner in which he conceals loose

morality in dress of high sounding and philosophical phraseology,
a
which calls for plain and decided condemnation.     . Doctrines,
       if
however consecrated by the faith of ages, practices, however recom
mended by the lives of saints, or the authority of wise and good men,

are to be despised they interfere with what he thinks the full develop

ment of our nature, tend to check the wildest speculations of the

intellect, or even to restrain  we understand the teaching of his cha
                                (if

                                                                     is
                                                                                   it
                                                                                                    a
racter) the most entire indulgence of the passions  Above all, we

are utterly at issue with him in an opinion which implied throughout

the volume, that certain amount of youthful profligacy does no real
a

....and permanent harm to the character, perhaps strengthens for useful
and even religious life."       Again, "The doctrines of 'Yeast' will

really convert no one, though they may afford some men specious

reasons for selfish gratifications, which they could have indulged in
without the argumentative inducements of an impure philosophy."

* " The Fount of Science ;" National Sermons, 1st Series.

                             Attack on "Yeast."         28 j

   These were some of the charges made. Their effect was to

leave a general impression that the book inculcated the vilest
principles, and most pernicious doctrines, while not a single
quotation from it was given, so as to afford the readers of the
review an opportunity of judging for themselves.

   Mr. Kingsley had hitherto made it a rule not to answer news
paper attacks on himself, especially those of the religious press,

but these charges being beyond all precedent, he repudiated

them in the following indignant words :

         TO THE EDITOR OF THE "GUARDIAN."

"Sir,                                                   May, 1851.

             "Having lived for several years under the belief that the

Editor of the 'Guardian' was a gentleman and a christian, I am bound to

take for granted that you have not yourself read the book called ' Yeast,'

which you have allowed to be reviewed in your columns. This answer

Itherefore is addressed, not to you, but to your reviewer ; and have a

Irigh"t  to expect that you  will, as an act of common  fairness, insert it.
           most thoroughly   agree with the reviewer    that he has not mis

understood me ; on the contrary, he sees most clearly the gist of the
book, as is proved by his carefully omitting any mention whatsoever of

two questions connected with a character whose existence is passed over

Iin silence, which form the very pith and moral of the whole book.

know well enough why he has ignored them ; because they were the
very ones which excited his wrath.

  I" But he makes certain allegations against me which found it some

what difficult to answer, from their very preposterousness, till, in Pascal 's

Fifteenth Provincial Letter, I fell on an argument which a certain

Capuchin Father, Valerian, found successful against the Jesuits, and
Iwhich seems to suit the reviewer exactly.
                                            shall therefore proceed to

apply it to the two accusations which concern me most nearly as a

churchman.

  I" 1. He asserts that say that ' it is common sense and logic to make

ourselves children of God by believing that we are so when we are not.'

ISir, you and your readers will hardly believe me when tell you that this
Iis the exact and formal opposite to what say, that the words which he

misquotes, by leaving out the context and the note of interrogation, occur
in a scornful reductio ad absurdum of the very doctrine which he wantonly

Iimputes to me, an appeal to common sense and logic against and not
for the lie of the Genevan School.  have a right to use the word

284 Charles Kingsley.

' wantonly,' for he cannot say that he has misunderstood me ; he has

refused to allow me that plea, and I refuse to allow it to him. Indeed,
I cannot, for the passage is as plain as daylight, no schoolboy could
Imisunderstand it ; and every friend to whom have shown his version

of it has received it with the same laughter and indignation with which
I did, and felt, with me, that the only answer to be given to such dis
                                              ' Meritiris impudentissime.'
hon"e2s.tySowaswitthhat  of Father Valerian,  the book ' regards the        Catholic
                         the assertion, that

doctrine of the Trinity as the same thing with that of the Vedus Neo-

Platonists,' &c. &c. ; or considers 'a certain amount of youthful profligacy
as doing no real and permanent harm to the character -- perhaps
strengthening it-- for a useful and even religious life ; and that the ex

istence of the passions is a proof that they are to be gratified.' Sir, I
shall not quote passages in disproof of these calumnies, for if I did I
Ishould have to quote half the book.
                                              shall simply reply, with Father

   '  Mentiris impudentissime^
      enter into no further defence
IValerian,
  " I shall
                                              of the book ;  have no doubt

of there being many errors and defects in           shall be most thankful
I
                                          I it.

                                                 I
to have them pointed out, and to correct them most patiently. But one

thing may say, to save trouble hereafter, that whosoever henceforth,

either explicitly or by insinuation, says that do not hold and believe

ex animo, and in the simple and literal sense, all the doctrines of the

Catholic and Apostolic Church of England, as embodied in her Liturgy

or Articles, shall have no answer from me but Father Valerian's Mentiris

impudentissime.'I
                          " am, Sir,

                                " Your obedient and faithful servant,
                                                  "THE AUTHOR OF 'YEAST.'"

In speaking of this correspondence, Mr. Maurice says             :

"If/ had been accused of profligacy and heresy, as Mr. Kingsley
has been in the Guardian,' believe should have felt much more
                              aI
                                   I                             with less
                                         I
indignation than he has, though might have expressed         it

simplicity and brevity. If man in a mask, calling himself                         We,'
                                                                            a
tells clergyman that he has been all his life uttering a lie, that             is is '
a

his whole professions before God and man are lie, that he an
                                                    a

advocate for profligacy when he professes to make men moral,                            a

deliberate teacher of heresy when he knows that his inmost desire to

preach the Catholic faith, and when he knows that he expresses that

desire most loudly, not in the presence of dignitaries who might

patronize him for but of infidels who would despise him forit,              it,   does
                                                                              it

                Effect of "Yeast."                  285

not seem very strange that such a clergyman should say in Latin or
                                              "
English, Sir We ! thou thyself tellest a lie

Some may think it needless to revive these old controversies,

but attacks on his moral teaching in this case, and at a later
period on " Hypatia," implying as they did, a want of moral
principle in himself, and the encouragement of it in others,

touched Mr. Kingsley on his tenderest point, and cannot be
passed over, if only to show those who know what the results of

his work have been, and have seen the different tone taken since

by the religious press with regard to him and his writings, what

sore battles he had at one time to fight, what bitter insults he
had to stand, while labouring day and night for the good of
others. But when once the moment and the expression of

righteous indignation was over, he had a wonderful power of
putting attacks and the individuals who made them, out of his
mind, bearing no malice, and going on his way. " Life is too
hard work in itself," he would say, " to let one stop to hate

and suspect people."                                charges, but
                                                     Only three
   The " Guardian " replied again, reiterating its
happily there was another side to the question.

weeks before these attacks he had received the following among
many other testimonies to the moral influence of "Yeast," on

men whose hearts could not be touched by teachers of a narrower

school :

" Dear Sir,                                         April 2, 1851.

          I" have just finished ' Yeast' in extenso, having only skimmed
it in Fraser, and, fresh from the book, I cannot resist communicating to

you my heartfelt thanks for          You will not care about whether
                             I it.                  ;
                                  I
thank you or not never mind, shall relieve myself by writing, and you/
             ;

at any rate will not feel insulted.     believe you have taken up the

right ground in standing firmly by the spirit of Christianity, and the

divineness of Christ's mission, and showing the people how they are their

best friends and the truest reformers.  I  have been as far as most people

into the Kingdom of the Everlasting No, and had nearly, in my in

tellectual misery, taken up with blank Atheism and the Reasoner and

should have done so, had not my heart rebelled against my head, and

flooding in upon me reflections of earlier, purer days, brighter days of

286 Charles Kingsley.

Faith, bade me pause. For six months I have been looking back to

Christianity, my heart impelling me towards it ; my head urging me
Iinto farther cimmerias.
                            wanted some authoritative word to confirm
Imy heart, but could not meet with it.
                                            read orthodox books of argu
Iment, of persuasion, of narrative, but found they only increased my
Iantagonism to Christianity. And was very miserable --as I believe all

earnest men must be when they find themselves God-abandoned in times

like these --when, picking up your ' Christian Socialist,' I read your

' God justified to the People,' and felt that here now was a man, not a

mere empty evangelical tub-thumper (as we of the North call Ranters),
but a bona fide man, with a man's intellect, a man of genius, and a

scholar, and yet who did not spit upon his Bible, or class it with Goethe

and Dante, but could have sympathies with all the ferment of the age;

be a Radical Reformer without being a vague Denier, a vaguer
If' Spiritualist,' as our 'Leader' friends have or an utter Atheist.
                                            I it,                                                         this

man, on further acquaintance, prove what suspect him to be, here
                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                  ;'

                                                                                                                 I is
the confirmation            desire. Impelled by this, and by the accounts
           I
gathered of you from Mr. and Mrs. Carlyle, devoured Yeast andI
'Alton Locke,' am now in the middle of am no novel reader, whichII
                                            (I
                                              I

must be my excuse for being so late in the field).                                                find that am quite
                                                    I                                                ;

                                                                                                       I
correct, that have not exaggerated your capacity at all and having,

day and night, meditated on what you have to say, feel that the con
                                                                                                  I

firmation have got from you sufficient. But have another better
                             is              iIf I
confirmation in my own heart.       feel as         had emerged from                                      a
                               I

mephitic cavern into the open day. In the midst of worldly reverses,

such as never before experienced,   feel mental serenity                                                  never
I                                   I
    I
                                                    a
                         ;
                                                                 I

before knew can see life and my role in life, clear and definite for the

first time, through all manner of intervening entanglements.                                              feel
   " know not by what right make you my father confessor, but
                            I
                                                                        I

strangely drawn towards you, and even at the risk of being deemed im

pertinent, must send this rambling missive to thank you and to bless

you for having helped the light and the leaven to sad yeasty spirit
                            in
                                                                                       a

hitherto.

   This letter led to long correspondence but unfortunately
no copies have been kept of Mr. Kingsley's letters. Another
testimony to " Yeast " given by Wesleyan minister.
                            a
                              is
                                                       a

                                                                                               ;

   "REV. SIR,                        Yeast      Problem and, regardless
             " have read your book  cannot  refrain thanking you on my
           I                      '
of etiquette (perhaps of decorum)
                                                      :

                                                     a
                                                                               ;

                                                                                         '

   Lecture on Agriculture and Association.                                      287

own behalf, and on behalf of the millions of poor, for whom, with a warm
heart, a clear head, and a modest tongue, you have pleaded. For

Iyears have ardently longed to see the cause of the needy advocated

by one who knew their real condition, as well as their undoubted

rights.

  "And, for one, I thank you most heartily for your priceless delineation

of a sceptical mind feeling after the Almighty. Alas ! there are few, yet,
of my fellow working-men who can follow you through the open door

you set before them, however ready they may be to lose themselves in
the first labyrinth of doubt which presents itself. Still, some great,

earnest souls are to be found among them -- like your own Tregarva --

who daringly heave up their shoulders above their sleepy comrades, and
ask, what of the night ? Enough that He who keepeth Israel neither

I Islumbereth nor sleepeth.     to  induce  some of my well-meaning,            but in
                 shall be able
   " hope

judicious, brethren (I am a Wesleyan Local Preacher) to look more

Iattentively, and with more humility, at the wounds they strive to heal.
know well the storms of doubt and the deceitful calm of a ' well-enough '

faith. But, stay, you have a work to do, a high and holy one, and it

becomes not a stranger to detain you long.
   " Is there not a work for me also ?

   On the 28th of May, his controversy about " Yeast " scarcely

over, he had to deliver one of a series of lectures on behalf of the

Society for Promoting Working Men's Associations, on a subject

that as a country clergyman he could speak of best : The Appli

cation of Associative Principles and Methods to Agriculture. This,

however, he did, as he said, with the greatest diffidence. The

                                            it,
                                                is

                                                                           :

                                                                             a
effect it produced on those who heard       described by London

barrister, who wrote as follows to Mrs. Kingsley

   "I was engaged till so late yesterday condensing   May 30, 1851.
                                                     your husband's

lecture for the Christian Socialist,' that was not able to write to you as
              I
                  '

                   ;I

                                a
                                        in

                                   iIt, I
                                              I

                                                                  it

                                                           iIf
                                                                         Ia I
I  intended.   can only say that feel what everybody else feels whom

have spoken with on the subject, that no other man in England could have

done what he did  say man emphatically, because      were to seek

word to express my opinion of               would say was the manliest thing

had ever heard. Such right bold honest way of turning from side to side,

looking everything straight         the face, and speaking out all the good

288 diaries Kingsley.

and all the ill that could be said of in the plainest way, was surely
                                       it,
never seen before; and certainly never was audience kept for nearly two
                                                 ;
hours and half so attentive, by the mere weight of the subject, and the
force with which was wielded. It would have been better, perhaps,
            a
                               had been divided into two, and the construction
                    if it

                           it
in some respects,                                            ; if

part at the end had been more carefully elaborated but, perhaps, the

haste was here unavoidable, and, perhaps, also, the two-hours-and-a-half

lecture was victory to be once carried, so as to break the very neck of
            a

all cavil as to the reality of the effect produced. The very few objections

which might make to two or three details are so small, that do not
     a                                                                   I

       I                                                                                  a
choose to mention them.        it, I  can call the thing but by one name --

triumph. And do regret that any other answer should have been sent
               I
to certain article in certain newspaper than an invitation to the said
                    it  aa
lecture.

   " counts with modest assurance quite imperturbable, on your

and Charles's presence at the Association tea-party on Whit-Tuesday,

and    has  made me advertise at       least his don't       be frightened.            also
       The                             be published.         Perhaps should
   "         lecture will, of course,                              I

mention, though         is     very small matter, that in spite of almost no
                           a

advertisement and many free tickets, the thing was completely successful

in     pecuniary point of view, and more than paid expenses."
    a

   In the summer of 1851 several London clergymen arranged to            a
have courses of lectures specially addressed to the working men,
who came in numbers to see the Great Exhibition. One of these                       '

clergymen, whose church was in the neighbourhood of lecture-
hall much frequented by working men of atheistic views,

begged Mr. Maurice to take part in his course of lectures and

(once more to quote Mr. Hughes's words)
                                                             I I' :
" to ask Kingsley to do so also assuring Mr. Maurice that he had     Ia
                                      ;
                                                          '
been reading Kingsley's works with the greatest interest, and earnestly

desired to secure him as one of his lecturers.'              promised to mention

this request to him,' Mr. Maurice says, though knew he rarely came

to London, and seldom preached except in his own parish. He agreed,

though at some inconvenience, that he would preach sermon on the

Message of the Church to the Labouring Man.                              suggested the

it.subject to him. The incumbent intimated the most cordial approval ofa
      He had asked us, not only with previous knowledge of our pub

lished writings, but expressly because he had that knowledge.            I  pledge

you my word that no questions were asked as to what we were going to

                     Occurrence in a London Church.                                                289

say, and no guarantees given. Mr. Kingsley took precisely that view of
the messsge of the Church to labouring men which every reader of his

books would have expected him to take.'
   " Kingsley took his text from Luke iv. verses 18 to 21 : ' The Spirit

of the Lord is upon me, because He hath anointed me to preach the

gospel to the poor,' &c. What then was that gospel ? Kingsley starts

at once with--' I assert that the business for which God sends a

Christian priest in a Christian nation             is,
                                                         ; is

                                                               a
                                                                      in

                                                                      ;'

                                                                                            a
                                                   to preach freedom, equality,

and brotherhood, in the fullest, deepest, widest meaning of those three

great words that in as far as he so does, he               true priest, doing his
      is
             ;
Lord's work with His Lord's blessing on him that as far as he does

'Inot he no priest at all, but traitor to God and man and again,
say that these words express the very pith and marrow of priest'sis
                                   a
business  is ;Isay that they preach freedom, equality, and brotherhood, to
                                      a
rich and poor for ever and ever.' Then he goes on to warn his hearers

how there always counterfeit in this world of the noblest message
                          a

and   teaching.      are  two  freedoms -- the false, where  man         free to do
                                           is
   "  Thus there                                                    in a

                                                                                is
                                                                                          in
what he likes the true, where man free to do what he ought.a;

   " Two equalities --the false, which reduces all intellects and all

characters to dead level, and gives the same power to the bad as to

the good, to the wise as to the foolish, ending thus         practice                              the

grossest inequality the true, wherein each man has equal power, to;
educate and use whatever faculties or talents God has given him, be

they less or more. This the divine equality which the church pro

claims, and nothing else       proclaims   as she  does.   chooses  who  shall                     be
   " Two brotherhoods --       the false,  where      man
                                                   a
                                                        ;
                                                                                                a
his brothers, and whom he will treat as such the true, in which man

believes that all are his brothers, not by the will of the flesh, or the will

of man, but by the will of God, whose children they all are alike. The

church has three special possessions and treasures. The Bible, which

proclaims man's freedom, Baptism his equality,             the Lord's  Supper                      his

brotherhood." -- (Preface to 'Alton Locke').

   The sermon was listened to with profound attention by                 it
large congregation, in which were many working men. But at                         a
its close, just as the preacher was about to give the blessing,
the incumbent rose in the reading-desk and declared, that while
he agreed with much that had been said by the preacher, was
his painful duty to add that he believed much to be dangerous

and much untrue.

VOL. I.                                                                  V

2 go Charles Kings ley.

   The excitement of the congregation was intense : the working
men could with difficulty be kept quiet, and to a man of

the preacher's vehement temperament it must have required a
great effort not to reply. He only bowed his head, and with
deepened solemnity came down from the pulpit, passed straight
through the crowd that thronged him with out-stretched hands,
and an eager " God bless you, sir," on their lips, and went into
the vestry, where his friends gathered round him to express their

sympathy, and to take the sermon from him that it might be
printed exactly as it was written. " Those," said Mr. Maurice,
" who observed the solemnity of Mr. Kingsley's manner while he
was delivering his sermon, still more when he was praying with
the congregation, and blessing them, will believe that the thought
of having unwittingly made himself a stumbling-block to his

fellow men, was infinitely more bitter to him than any mere
personal insult which he was called upon to endure."

   " You will have heard ere this," writes a friend to Mrs. Kingsley the
day following, " all about the strange event of last night. . . . Nothing

could justify the violation of church order and decency which was

committed  Thank God, thank Him on your knees, that Charles
Idid not answer a single word ; if he had, do not know what might

not have happened. Robertson and Hansard had severally to quiet

knots of working men, who were beginning to hiss or otherwise testify
their disapproval. A word from Charles, or, indeed, from any one on

his behalf, might have raised such a storm as God only could have

quelled

  I" What the consequences of the whole thing may be, none, suppose,

can tell; but they are in God's hands, and He knows best, and makes

all things work together for good for us if we truly fear Him. Charles,

I think, feels that it is his only policy to keep quite quiet -- and so must

his friends for the present. Tell him old Lumley is showing himself a
                                                       "
man, and will be extremely glad to publish the sermon

   Mr. Kingsley returned to Eversley exhausted and depressed,

and in the meantime the storm burst. A leading morning

paper began the attack, with an article, which being full of
inaccuracies, made its due impression on those who did not
know the facts, and who were already strongly prejudiced
against the " Apostle of Socialism."

Sympathy of Working Men.                           291

   This was followed by a letter from the Bishop of London
(Dr. Blomfield), who hearing of the disturbance, wrote to
Mr. Kingsley to express his displeasure, and forbade him to

preach in London. Mr. Kingsley replied most respectfully,
requesting his lordship to suspend his judgment till he had
read the sermon. Meanwhile letters of sympathy poured in
from all quarters, from a few of the clergy, from many of the
laity, and from numbers of working men. There was a meet
ing of working men on Kennington Common, and an expres

sion of their warm allegiance and sympathy. A proposal was

also made before the bishop's prohibition was withdrawn, to

induce Mr. Kingsley to start a free church independent of
episcopal rule, with a promise of a huge following. It is

needless to say he did not entertain this proposal for a

moment.

   In the meantime the sermon was printed, and a copy sent to

the Bishop, who wrote at once to ask Mr. Kingsley to come

up and see him at London House ; and after a kind reception

he withdrew his prohibition, and in a fortnight Mr. Kingsley
preached at the parish church of Chelsea.

    Before the meeting on Kennington Common, the secretary of
the John Street Lecture Hall, where the principal audience was
composed of Chartists, free thinkers, and followers of Strauss,
wrote to offer Mr. Kingsley the use of their lecture hall, which

he declined in the following words :

                                               EVERSLEY, June 26, 1851.

I" have conferred with my friends on their willingness to give

lectures in John Street, and find it to be their unanimous opinion, that
to do so, would be interpreted by the public into an approval, more or
less, of other doctrines which are taught there, from which I, of all

men in England, differ most strongly, and from which I hold myself

bound most strongly to protest.
   " As a churchman, such a suspicion would be intolerable to me, as it

would be gratuitously incurred. Those who wish to know my opinions

Iwill have plenty of opportunities elsewhere ; and must therefore, in

common with my friends, distinctly, but most courteously, decline your

kind offer of the John Street lecture rooms."

                                               v2

292 Charles Kingsley.

   He was so much exhausted with the work and the contro
versies of the last eight months, that his parents, who were
going to Germany for some weeks, seeing the importance of his
having thorough change, persuaded him to leave his parish in
the care of a curate and go abroad with them. It was the first
time he had crossed the water, and it was quite a revelation to
him, -- to be enjoyed as thoroughly as he could enjoy any thing
which took him from his home. But even in new scenes his
fiery spirit could not rest ; and the cause of the Church and
the People pressed heavily on him.

                                      TO HIS WIFE.

" Actually at Ems at last.                                             Ems, August i, 1851.

                                      As for what I have seen and felt I

cannot tell you. My comfort is that you have seen it already, though,
alas ! you have not seen that glass by Kaulbach at Coin, which is most

magnificent. Grand pictures in painted glass, with far distances, which

let the eye out of the building, instead of confining and crushing it in

wards, as painted glass generally does. At them I did not cry; but at
the choir I did, and cried, too, like a child, at the head of the Virgin in

that great triptych of Koloffs, the Adoration ; that head is the most

I Iwonderful female head ever saw yet from the hand of man. Then

had my first sight of the Rhine and vineyards -- such a strange new feel

Iing -- and the Drachenfels, which is fine ; but was not overpowered as
I was by Rolandseck and Nonnenwerth, and that story; -- it seemed quite

awful to find oneself  in presence of
                       utterly disappointed
   " Ehrenbreitstein                  it.
                                                 it
                                                        is

                                                                   it
                                                                             is,

                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                ;
                                                    me, except professionally.

The lying painters paint just three times as high as                   and was
             !I                                     all beautiful -- beautiful.

                               it it
quite shocked to find               so small. But

That vast rushing, silent river, those yellow vine slopes, and azure hills
behind, with the thunder clouds lowering over their heads -- beautiful

and the air  have felt new nerves, as well as new eyes, ever since

Cologne, the wonderful freshness and transparency of the colouring,

and the bracing balminess of the atmosphere, make me understand now

at once why people prefer this to England there                no denying it. It
                                      is
                                              ;
                                                           is
more charming country, and that the best of reasons one has for
is
    a
         is
thanking God that one has not the means of escaping to from work.it, it
Ems lovely, and we have got to the quiet side of close to the

Gutenberg. . . .                                    '

   " How strange that my favourite Psalm about the hills of the robbers'

           First Impressions of the Rhine.                                                     293

Ishould have come the very day went up the Rhine. . . . These

IEms waters are doing me good ; out fishing yesterday at Dausennau.

The other day H. and walked over the hills to Braubach and Marks-
burg, and caught unspeakable butterflies, and found -- conceive my de
Ilight-- some twenty-five species of plants, new to me !
                                                                                 cannot tell

you the enjoyment of it. The scenery is certainly most lovely in every

direction ; and it is so delightful to think that you know it all ! That

thought recurs to me continually. Tell the darling children that I will

bring them each home something pretty, and that the woods are full of

great orange slugs, and great green lizards, and great long snakes, which

bite nobody, and that I will bring them home some red and blue locusts

out   of the vineyards. .      ..             with  such     good    news        too ! (about  the
   "  Another dear letter,
                                and
INeedlewomen's and other associations).
Ifor it !                                                    am so lifted up, and thankful

morning      am sure the cause is spreading               ;   and    as    the   Psalms for this
                                                             turned    to    us  ; let the proud
           say--Those who fear God will be
lie as they will. I am very glad Lord
                                                             has come over. It is an

                                may have     invaluable
                               to tell you.         have
I Iexc"ellehnat vesigwno,rladnsd                           consequences.         H. and I got
                                                          been to Bingen.

...into the steamer at Braubach, ran up to Bingen, crossed and slept at
IAssmanshausen, and walked down the right (the Lurlei) bank to St.
Goar, and back again.                         scrambled up the face of the Lurlei to

the Nymph's own seat, and picked you a little bouquet. . . . You
Itold me should be disappointed.                    It is past all telling -- beautiful --
wonderful. Three things above all -- Oberwesel -- the Sonneck Schloss,

twoogretthhe(ras--aanbdeathue  ideal of  the  robber's nest) all the other       castles       put
                               opening   out                                     infinite      un
                                              of the Rhine at Bingen into
Iknown distances, and calm, and glory, and wealth.
                                                                                 never shall, or
Ihope never shall, forget that one thing as long as I live. As for new
plants, I should think I passed fifty new species in that one day. Keep

Iing them was no good, so just picked specimens, and looked at them
till I knew them thoroughly, and went on regretful. On Monday we
Istart for the Eifel.
                               have been writing a good deal of poetry ; you
shall have it all when I get home; and that getting home is really
too delicious to think of. Tell the dear children I am getting lots of

stories for them. The Eifel tramp will set me up, with God's blessing,

utterly."

   It was at this time the " Eagle " was composed. To those

who remember the social and political state of Europe from 1848
to 185 1, it is full of significance.

294 Charles Kingsley,

            Even as an eagle crying all alone,

            Above the vineyards, through the summer night,

            Among the skeletons of robber towers ;
            Because the ancient eyrie of his race

            Was trenched and walled by busy-handed men ;
            And all his forest chase and woodland wild,

            Wherefrom he fed his young with hare and roe,
            Were trim with grapes, which swelled from hour to hour,
            And tossed their golden tendrils to the sun,

            IFor joy at their own riches : So, thought,

            The great devourers of the earth shall sit,
            Idle and impotent, they know not why,
            Down-staring from their barren height of state,

            On nations grown too wise to slay and slave
            The puppets of the few, while peaceful lore
            And fellow help, make glad the heart of earth,
            With wonders, which they fear and hate, as he,
            The eagle, hates the vineyard slopes below.

                                                         Ems, August 4.

" . . . . Just off this afternoon for the Eifel for a fortnight.     I take a

knapsack and plaid, a change of garments, paper to write to you twice

a week, my pipe, fishing-tackle, German Testament, word-book, note

book, and map of the Eifel. And so we start, and in a fortnight appear

I Iat Bonn, with beards, suppose, as shaving is out of the question.

get better and better, and have written lots more poetry."

The poems he refers to and which he sent home to his wife
were the sonnet beginning, " The baby sings not on its mother's
         "  " The        Princess ; " " Oh
breast             Ugly                     thou  hadst  been a wife
        ;
for Shakespeare's self ; " " Ask if I love thee ? oh, smiles cannot
tell," and " The world goes up and the world goes down."

                                            Menderscheid, August 7.

  " I write from the loveliest place you can imagine, only how we got
Ihere know not ; having lost our way between some ' feld ' or other to

here. We found ourselves about 8 p.m. last night at the top of a cliff 500
feet high, with a roaring river at the bottom, and no path. So down the

cliff-face we had to come in the dark, or sleep in the forest to be eaten

by wild boars and wolves, of which latter, one was seen on our route

yesterday ' as high as the table.' And down we came, knapsacks, fish
I Iing-rods, and all ; which process must not be repeated often if we intend
to revisit our native shores.  have seen such wonders, don't know

where to begin. Craters filled sometimes with ghastly blue lakes, with

                   Walking Tour in the EifeL                         295

shores of volcanic dust, and sometimes, quaintly enough, by rye-fields

and reapers. The roads are mended with lava ; the whole country the

strangest jumble, alternations of Cambridgeshire ugliness (only lifted up

1,200 feet high) with all the beauties of Devonshire. The bed of the

IIssbach, from the baths of Bertrich, up which we came yesterday, was

the most ravishingly beautiful glen scenery ever saw; such rocks -- such

baths --such mountains covered with huge timber--not mere scrub, like

the Rhine forests. Such strips of lawn here and there between the

stream and the wood. All this, of course, you get on a grander scale

on the Moselle, which was perfectly exquisite ; yet there is a monotony

Iin its luscious richness and softness, and was right glad to find myself

on my legs at Alf. Two days of that steamer running would have
been too much for one, with its heat and confinement, so I think
Ithis plan of walking is the best. Weather glorious.
                                                                     have just had

my first sight of the basalt opposite the Kurhaus of all Kurhauses
-- so lovely, one longs to kiss it. At two or three points one felt only

Iinclined to worship. Bertrich is just as beautiful as everything else, too.

Tell Rose have got her some volcano-dust from the crater of the

Pulver-Maar. To-day we go to a great Maar with cones of slag round
                   it,
and then a-fishing for trout.
                           I

                                                 a
                                                                    is
                                                                               a

                                                                     I
                                                                                                         it,
                                    am exceedingly well and strong, though

we did dine yesterday off raw ham, and hock at 9d. bottle. My knap

sack and plaid weigh about two stone, which      very heavy, but go

well enough under  having got              pair of elastic cross-straps, which

divide the weight over the breast-bone           Tell Rose and Maurice

their daddy dreams of them often."

                                                 Gerolstein, August 10.

" The most wonderful place ever was in           inmy life, and during the
                               I
                                                          ;
                                                                  ;
last three days have been stunned with wonders. Mountains fallen in,
        ;
and making great lakes in the midst of corn-land hills blown up with
         I
the wildest perpendicular crags, and roasted into dust craters with the

lips so perfect, that the fire might have been blazing in them twelve

months ago heaps of slag and cinder 2,500 feet above the sea, on

which nothing will grow, so burnt are they lava streams pouring down
                                              ;

into the valley, meeting with brooks drying them up, and in the fight
foaming up into cliffs, and hurling huge masses of trachyte far into the

dells mysterious mineral springs boiling up, full of carbonic acid, by

the roadside --all, as Beatrice says, wonderful, wonderful, and yet again
a                                       '

wonderful, past all whoopingI; !    When shall get to Treves and your
                                 '         I

letter know not, for there     is   so much to see here that cannot tell
                                                 if

                                                    I
when we move and the living ridiculously cheap, about 2s. 6d. or 31.;is
  day for one person, and one could not spend more one would, for

296 Charles Kingsley.

Ithere is nothing to spend on. This is the most memorable thing have

ever seen, and when one adds, too, all the flowers, and the castles, and

the vales -- why it will take me three months to tell you all. Kiss my

Idarlings, and tell Rose have got for her all sorts of curious lava-stones

from the volcanoes, and shall carry them 200 miles on my back before

Ishe gets them. God be thanked that ever came here to see so much."

                                                                                       BlRREHORN, August 13.

" I write to you out of the quaintest place, with a mineral spring which

kills dogs and birds, and a landlady who talks good French and bad

German, and a husband who is a dirty pothouse-keeper, with a casting

net over his arm, and yet, speaking of Kaulbach's stained glass at
Cologne, gives it as his opinion (in these very words), that ' they say
that Art (die Kunst) is decayed, but my opinion                                   is
                                                                                     a is,  that widens and
                                                                                            it
deepens every day.'                                          Really this Germany            wonderful country
I                                                                                                 I
      I

                                                 (!

                      !I

                                                 ' !)
--though its population are not members of the Church of England --

and as noble, simple, shrewd, kindly hearts in as man would wish to               it,

see. cannot tell you what moral good this whole journey has done me.

am learning hourly so much, that do not know how much have
                                                             ;I
learnt. Exceedingly well and strong as lean as lath, as any one would
                                                                                  a

be, who carried two stone of baggage daily increasing in weight from

the minerals and fossils find, on his back through broiling suns. We

are both worse than the hollow, pampered jades of Asia, that cannot

go but thirty miles a-day,' for with our knapsacks we can only make

fifteen, and then a sight-seeing walk in the evening. Yesterday we had
indeed day. We walked from Hillesheim past the Dreiser Weiher --
a
              a

            I
                            a
                                            a
mountain fallen into crater, as their habit here -- and on the back
                                                             is

                                                                               Ia
among the volcanic dust-mountains we found such minerals --olivine,
augite, and glassy felspar. One could have filled cart --as
                                                                                                       was
                                                                                            I it
could only fill pair of socks. Then we went from Daun up to the
                                                                                                    1
Schalcken Maaren. Three crater lakes in one mountain, which, being
                                                                                                7. I I
past all words beautiful and wonderful and awful, will say no more.

Every night dream of you and the children, and everywhere go

pick you flowers fur denkmaler."

                                                                                       Treves, August

" Here we are at Treves, having been brought here under arrest, with

gensdarme from the Mayor of Bittsburg, and liberated next morning
a
      '

                                                          '
with much laughter and many curses from the police here. However,

we had the pleasure of spending                              a                  prison, among fleas and
                                                                            in
                                                             night
felons, on the bare floor. It appears the barbarians took our fishing-rods
for todt-instrumenten --deadly weapons-- and our wide-awakes for

                         A German Prison.                                    297

Italian hats, and got into their addle pates that we were emissaries of

Mazzini and Co. distributing political tracts, for not a word of politics

had we talked. Luckily the police-inspector here was a gentleman,

and his wife and daughter ladies, and they did all they dare for us, and

so about ten next morning we were set free with many apologies, and

the gensdarme (who, after all, poor fellow, was very civil) sent back to
Bittsburg with a reprimand. We are the lions of Treves at present, for

the affair has made a considerable fuss. We leave this to-morrow after

Ihaving seen all the wonders --and what wonders there are to see.
need not tell you all I have felt here and at Fleissem. But at first the

feeling that one is standing over the skeleton of the giant iniquity -- Old

Rome -- is overpowering. And as I stood last night in that amphitheatre,

amid the wild beasts' dens, and thought of the Christian martyrdoms and

the Frank prisoners, and all the hellish scenes of agony and cruelty that

Iplace had witnessed, seemed to hear the very voice of the Archangel

whom St. John heard in Patmos,   crying,  ' Babylon       the   Great  is  fallen    '
                                                                                   ;

but no more like the sound of a trumpet, but only in the still whisper of

the night breeze, and through the sleeping vineyards, and the great still

smile of God out of the broad blue heaven. Ah ! and you were not
Ithere to feel it with me !                                      "
                             am  so  longing to  be home
                                                                !

                                                                                                          Bonn.

I" went yesterday with my mother to see the Museum here. The

minerals are magnificent, better arranged than any English collection

I know, and the volcanic specimens alone would take one day to

work through, not to mention the wonderful fossil fish, crabs, and insects
I Ifrom the Solenhofen slate, all but new to me !
                                                          was in ecstasies.

am very well indeed, and very strong, and my limbs are all knots, as
hard as iron. Tell Rose that out of my window here I can see the
                                                                 "
seven mountains,  which  were once volcanoes     all  on  fire
                                                                !

   Before going abroad, he had parted with the beloved pupil
who had become quite one of the family at the Rectory, and
was dear to him and his wife as a son. Mr. John Martineau's
graphic words and tender recollections of the eighteen months
he spent at Eversley, give the best picture of the home life at

that period, between January 21, 1850, and June 28, 1851.

                         PARK CORNER, HECKFIELD, Christmas Eve, 1875.

I I" first knew him in January, 1850.            entered his house as his

pupil, and was for nearly a year and a half his constant companion ;

298 Charles Kingsley.

indeed, out of doors, almost his only companion, for during the greater

part of that time he had no other pupil, and hardly any intimate

friends within reach. He was then in his thirty-first year, in the
Ifulness of his strength ;
                                           a raw receptive school-boy of fifteen ; so

that his mind and character left their impression upon mine as a

Iseal does upon wax. What that impression was will put down as
best I can.

   " He was then, above all things and before all things else, a parish

clergyman. His parish work was not indeed so laborious and absorbing
as it had been six years before, when he was first made Rector. The

efforts of these six years had told, the seed was bearing fruit, and
Eversley would never again be as it had been. His health had nearly

broken down not long before, and he had now a curate to help him,

and give him the leisure which he needed for writing and other things.

Still, even so, with a large and straggling though not very populous

parish, with his share of three services on Sunday and cottage-lectures

on two week-day evenings in winter ; there was much for him to do,

throwing himself into as he did, with all his intensity and keen sense
       if it
of responsibility. At this time, too, he had not, as in later years, the
                        a
hel"p                              aand the pursesof laymen toassist him.in Hampshire got from
                                      it,These were thedays whenfarm-labourers

eight to ten shillings week, and bread was dear, or had not long ceased

to be so. The cholera of 1849 had just swept through the country, and
though had not reached Eversley, a severe kind of low fever had, and

there had been season of much illness and many deaths, during which

he had, by his constant, anxious, tender care of the sick poor, won their

confidence more than ever before. The poor will not go to the relieving

officer they can get their needs supplied elsewhere and the Eversley
                                                       (I

                                                                          a
                                                                                ;

                                                                                                          a
poor used to go for relief, and something more than relief, to the Rectory.

There were few mornings, at that time, that did not bring some one in

distress, some feeble woman, or ailing child, or summons to sick

bed. Up to that time he had allowed                    believe) no man or woman in

his parish to become an inmate of the work-house through infirmity or

old age, except in few cases where want had been the direct con
       a

sequence of indolence or crime.
   " At times, too, other poor besides those of his parish, might be seen

at his door. Gipsies were attracted to him from all the country round.

He married and christened many of them, to whom such rites were

"Ithings almost unknown.
        cannot give any description of his daily life, his parish work, which

will not sound commonplace. There were the mornings chiefly spent in

reading and writing, the afternoons in going from cottage to cottage, the

Letter from Mr. Martineau.  299

long evenings in writing. It sounds monotonous enough. But there

never was a man with whom life was less monotonous, with whom it was

more full to overflowing, of variety, and freshness. Nothing could be
so exquisitely delightful as a walk with him about his parish. Earth,
air, and water, as well as farm-house and cottage, seemed full of his
familiar friends. By day and by night, in fair weather and in storm,
grateful for heat and cold, rain and sunshine, light and soothing darkness,
he drank in nature. It seemed as if no bird, or beast, or insect, scarcely
a drifting cloud in the sky, passed by him unnoticed, unwelcomed. He

caught and noted every breath, every sound, every sign. With every
person he met he instinctively struck some point of contact, found some

thing to appreciate --often, it might be, some information to ask for --

which left the other cheered, self-respecting, raised for the moment above

himself; and whatever the passing word might be, it was given to high

or low, gentle or simple, with an appropriateness, a force, and a genial
courtesy, in the case of all women, a deferential courtesy, which threw
its spell over all alike, a spell which few could resist.

   " So many-sided was he that he seemed to unite in himself more types
and varieties of mind and character, types differing as widely as the poet
from the man of science, or the mystic from the soldier ; to be filled

with more thoughts, hopes, fears, interests, aspirations, temptations than
could co-exist in any one man, all subdued or clenched into union and
harmony by the force of one iron will, which had learnt to rule after

many a fierce and bitter struggle.
   " His senses were acute to an almost painful degree. The sight of

suffering, the foul scent of a sick-room -- well used as he was to both --
would haunt him for hours. For with all his man's strength there was a
deep vein of woman in him, a nervous sensitiveness, an intensity of

sympathy, which made him suffer when others suffered, a tender, delicate,

soothing touch, which gave him power to understand and reach the
heart ; to call out, sometimes almost at first sight (what he of all men
least sought), the inmost confidences of men and women alike in all
classes of life. And he had sympathy with all moods from deepest
grief to lightest humour -- for no man had a keener, quicker perception
of the humorous side of anything-- a love and ready word of praise for

whatever was good or beautiful, from the greatest to the least, from the

heroism of the martyr to the shape of a good horse, or the folds of a
graceful dress. And this wide-reaching hearty appreciation made a word

of praise from him sweeter, to those who knew him well, than volumes
of commendation from all the world besides.

    " His every thought and word was penetrated with the belief, the full
assurance, that the world -- the world of the soldier or the sportsman, as

3OO Charles Kingsley.

well as the world of the student or the theologian --was God's world, and
that everything which He had made was good. ' Humani nihil a me

alienum puto,' he said, taught by his wide human sympathies, and

encouraged by his faith in the Incarnation. And so he rejected, as
Pharisaic and unchristian, most of what is generally implied in the use
of such words as ' carnal,' ' unconverted, ' worldly,' and thereby em

braced in his sympathy, and won to faith and hope, many a struggling
soul, many a bruised reed, whom the narrow and exclusive ignorance of

schools and religionists had rejected.

   " No human being but was sure of a patient, interested hearer in him.

I have seen him seat himself, hatless, beside a tramp on the grass outside

his gate in his eagerness to catch exactly what he had to say, searching
him, as they sate, in his keen kindly way with question and look. With

as great a horror of pauperism and almsgiving as any professed political

economist, it was in practice very hard to him to refuse anyone. The

sight of unmistakable misery, however caused, covered, to him, the
Imultitude of sins.
                     recollect his passing backwards and forwards again
and again -- the strong impulsive will for once irresolute -- between the
breakfast-room and a miserable crying woman outside, and I cannot

forget, though twenty-five years have passed since, the unutterable look

of pain and disgust with which, when he had decided to refuse the
request, he said, ' Look there ! ' as he pointed to his own well-furnished

table.
   " Nothing roused him to anger so much as cant. Once a scoundrel,

on being refused, and thinking that at a parsonage and with a parson it

would be a successful trick, fell on his knees on the door-step, turned up
the whites of his eyes and began the disgusting counterfeit of a prayer.

In an instant the man found himself, to his astonishment, seized by

collar and wrist, and being swiftly thrust towards the gate, with a firm

grip and a shake that deprived him of all inclination to resist, or, till he

                     it,

                                  I
found himself safe outside even to remonstrate.
   " He had at that time great physical strength and activity, and an im

petuous, restless, nervous energy, which    have never seen equalled.

All his strength, physical, mental, and moral, seemed to find expression

in his keen grey eyes, which gazed, with the look of an eagle, from under

massive brows, divided from each other by two deep perpendicular
furrows -- at that time, together with the two equally deep lines from

nostril to mouth, very marked features in his face. One day, in  a

neighbour's yard, large savage dog flew out at him, straining at its

chain. He walked up to scolding and by mere force of eye, voice,
it a

                it,
                          it

                                       it,
and gesture, drove into its kennel, close to which he stopped, keeping

his eye on the cowed animal, as  growled and moved uneasily from

                         Rectory Life in 1850.                   301

side to side. He had done the same thing often before, and had even
pulled an infuriated dog out of its kennel by its chain, after having

driven it in.

   " By boyish habits and tastes a keen sportsman, the only sport he ever
enjoyed at this time was an occasional day's trout or pike-fishing, or
throwing a fly for an hour or two during his afternoon's walk over the

little stream that bounded his parish. Hunting he had none. And in
later years, when he did hunt occasionally, it was generally a matter of
two or three hours on an old horse, taken as a relaxation in the midst of

work, not, as with most other men, as a day's work in itself. Fond as

he was of horses, he never     in his life had one worth fifty pounds, so
little self-indulgent was he.
know -- went out shooting.      IHe never then, or afterwards -- so far as

"Though exercising intense self-control, he was very restless and

excitable. Constant movement was a relief and almost a necessity to
him. His study opened by a door of its own upon the garden, and most

of his sermons and books were thought out and composed as he paced

up and down there, at all hours and in all weathers, his hands behind

his back, generally smoking a long clay pipe ; for tobacco had, as he
found by experience -- having once tried a year's total abstinence from
it --an especially soothing beneficial effect upon him. He ate hurriedly,
and it was an effort to him to sit still through a meal. His coat
frequently had a white line across the back, made by his habit of lean
ing against the whitened chimney-piece of the dining-room during

breakfast and dinner. Once in the long summer days we were con
demned to a more than usually dull dinner-party at a neighbour's house,

where the only congenial person was a young scientific doctor from the

next parish. After dinner, it being broad daylight, we were all in the
Igarden, and opposite to us were two high thick-foliaged trees.
                                                                 do not

know which of the two suggested but in an instant his coat and the
                                  it,
                                              it
doctor's were off, and they were racing each other, each up his tree, like

schoolboys, one getting first to the top, the other first down again to the

gro"unOdf. society he had then very little, and   was rarely and unwillingly
                                                   He did not seek and
that he passed an evening away from home.            a it,
                                                               a it
had not yet begun to seek him. Indeed, at no time was general society
  congenial element to him and those who knew him only thus, did

not know him at his best. A few intimate friends, and now and then
a                              ;
     a
                      a
stranger, seeking his advice on some matter, would come for night

or Sunday. Amongst the former, and honoured above all, was Mr.
Maurice. One of his visits happened at time when we had been
                                  a
                                             a
startled by burglary and murder at parsonage      a  few miles off, and

3O2 Charles Kingsley,

had armed ourselves and barricaded the rambling old Rectory in case
of an attack. In the middle of the night an attempt was made to force

open the back door, which roused us all, and we rushed down stairs

with pistols, guns, and blunderbuss, to expel the thieves, who, however,

had taken alarm and made off. Mr. Maurice, the only unarmed and

the coolest man amongst us, was quietly going out alone, in the pitch

darkness, into the garden in pursuit of them, when Mr. Kingsley for

tunately came upon him and stopped him ; and the two passed the rest

of  "thMe annigyhta  together  talking over the study-fire   till morning came.
                     one has   cause to remember that       Study, its lattice window

(in later years altered to a bay), its great heavy door, studded with large
projecting nails, opening upon the garden ; its brick floor covered with

matting ; its shelves of heavy old folios, with a fishing-rod, or landing-

net, or insect-net leaning against them ; on the table, books, writing-

materials, sermons, manuscript, proofs, letters, reels, feathers, fishing-
flies, clay-pipes, tobacco. On the mat, perhaps -- the brown eyes, set in

thick yellow hair, and gently-agitated tail, asking indulgence for the
intrusion -- a long-bodied, short-legged Dandy Dinmont Scotch terrier,

wisest, handsomest, most faithful, most memorable of its race. When the

rest of the household went to bed, he would ask his guest in, ostensibly

to smoke. The swing-door would be flung open and slam heavily after him,

as it always did, for he would never stop to catch and close it. And then

in the quiet of night, when no fresh face could come, no interruption

occur to distract him, he would give himself wholly to his guest, taking

up whatever topic the latter might suggest, whatever question he might

ask, and pouring out from the full stores of his knowledge, his quick

intuitive sagacity, his ready sympathy. Then it was, far more than in

the excitement and distraction of many voices and many faces, that he

was himself, that the true man appeared ; and it was at times such as

these that he came to be known and trusted and loved, as few men ever

have been, as no man has been whom I ever knew.

   " He had to a wonderful degree the power of abstraction and con

centration, which enabled him to arrange and elaborate a whole sermon,

or a chapter of a book, while walking, riding, or even fly-fishing, without

making a note, so as to be able on his return to write or dictate it in
clear terse language as fast as pen could move. He would read a book

and grasp its essential part thoroughly in a time so short that it seemed

impossible that his eyes could have traversed its pages. Compared with
other men who have written or thought much, he worked for few hours

in the day, and without much system or regularity ; but his application
was so intense that the strain upon his vital powers was very great. Nor

when he ceased could his brain rest. Except during sleep, --and even

                                   Character and Preaching.                              303

      that was characteristic, so profound was -- repose seemed impossible to
                                                       it,
      him for body or mind. So that he seemed to live three days, as were,a
                                                                               a
      while other men were living one, and already foresaw that there would be
                                                                                     it
      for"hCimonnnoecgteredatwliethngtthhisorfaypeiadrsl.iving was certain impatience of trifles,

      an inaccuracy about details, a haste in drawing conclusions,             forgetful-

      ness of times and seasons, and of words lightly spoken or written, and

      withal an impulsive and almost reckless generosity, and fear of giving

      pain, which sometimes placed him at an unfair disadvantage and put

      him formally in the wrong when substantially he was in the right. It

      led him, too, to take too hastily favourable estimate of almost every
                                   ;a
      one with whom he came personally into contact, so that he was liable to

      suffer from misplaced confidence while in the petty matters of daily
      life made him a bad guardian of his own interests, and but for the
I
      wise and tender assistance that was ever at his side would almost have
       it
      overwhelmed him with anxieties.
                  a
         " In the pulpit, and even at his week-day cottage-lectures, where,

      from the population of his parish being so scattered, he had sometimes

      scarcely dozen hearers, he was at that time eloquent beyond any man

      ever heard. For he had the two essential constituents of eloquence,
                                                                        a
                                                                                                   a
      strong man's intensity and clearness of conviction, and command of

      words, not easy or rapid, but sure and unhesitating, an unfailing instinct

      for the one word, the most concrete and pictorial, the strongest and the

      sim"pMlesatn, ywhhaicvhe  expressed his thought   exactly.  with  his preaching,  many
                                 since then become     familiar

      more with his published sermons, but few comparatively can know what

it. it  was to hear him, Sunday after Sunday, in his own church and among

      his own people, not preach only, but read, or rather pray, the prayers of

      the Church-service. So completely was he in harmony with these prayers,

      so fully did they satisfy him, that with all his exuberance of thought

      and imagination,             seemed as for him there was nothing to be asked
                      I it         a if

                                              it

                                                                       a

                                                                           it
      for beyond what they asked for. So that in his cottage-lectures, as in

      his own household worship, where he was absolutely free to use any

      words he chose, scarcely ever heard him use word of prayer other

      than the words of the Prayer-book.

         " In conversation he had painful hesitation in his speech, which

      diminished as he got older, though               never wholly left him. But in

      preaching, and in speaking with a set purpose, he was wholly free from

        He used to say that he could speak for God but not for himself,
      and took the trial -- and to his keenly sensitive nature
                                                                               was no small
one, -- patiently and even thankfully, as having by God's mercy saved

him from many temptation to mere brilliancy and self-seeking. The
                                a

304 Charles Kingsley.

successful effort to overcome thisdifficulty increased instead of diminishing

the impressi veness of his voice, for to it was partly due the strange, rich,

high-pitched, musical monotone in which he prayed and preached, the

echo of which, as it filled his church, or came borne on the air through

the open window of a sick room, seems to travel over the long past years
                              afresh, as I read them
and"  kindle  his words                                   in  the cold dead page.                                          for
      And as   it was an       unspeakable blessing       to  Eversley to have him

its Rector, so also it was an inestimable benefit to him to have had so

early in life a definite work to do which gave to his generous sympathetic

impulses abundant objects and responsibilities and a clear purpose and

direction. Conscious, too, as he could not but be, of great powers, and
impatient of dictation or control, the repose and isolation of a country

parish afforded him the best and healthiest opportunities of develop
ment, and full liberty of thought and speech, with sufficient leisure for

rea"diGngreaatndas  study.    love  of natural  science,  in so  many  of its branches,
                     was his

his genius was essentially that of a poet. Often a time of trouble and
sadness -- and there was in him a strong undercurrent of sadness at all
times, -- would result in the birth of a lyrical poem or song, on a subject

wholly unconnected with that which occupied him, the production of

which gave him evident relief, as though in some mysterious way his

mind was thereby disburdened and set free for the reception of new

thoughts and impressions.           In June 1851, he preached a powerful

sermon to working men in a London church. No sooner had he finished

it than the incumbent who had asked him to preach, rose in the reading-
                                    It was painful scene, which narrowly escaped
desk and denounced  it a

                        it.
                                         in a
                                                a
                                                              it

                                                                                               ;

                                                                                   it

                                                                                                                        '
ending in a riot, and he felt keenly --not the insult to himself--but the

discredit and scandal to the Church, the estrangement that would be

likely to increase between the clergy and the working men. He came

home the day after, wearied and worn out, obliged to stop to rest and

refresh himself at house in his parish during his afternoon's walk.

That same evening he brought                    song that he had written, the Three

Fishers,' as though were the outcome of all and then he seemed
able to put the matter aside, and the current of his daily life flowed as

before.

   " Not that he at this time -- or indeed at any time -- wrote much verse.

Considering that what the world needed was not verse, however good,

so much as sound knowledge, sound reasoning, sound faith, and above

all, as the fruit and evidence of the last, sound morality, he did not

give free rein to his poetical faculty, but sought to make his servant,
                                    it
                                                                                          it
not his master, to use              to illuminate and fix the eyes of men

on the truths of science, of social relationship, of theology, of morality.

                  Letter from Mr. Martineau.                  305

His books--and they are many -- are the living witnesses of the fruit of

these efforts, of the many purposes, the varied subjects, on which he

employed the gift that was in him. The letters which he received in

countless numbers, often from utter strangers who knew nothing of him

but from his books, seeking counsel on the most delicate and important

matters of life, testify how great a gift it was, how truly and tellingly it

wa"s  used.       all his writings,  on whatever subject,  it must not be

      In reading
forgotten that he was a poet, -- that he could not help thinking, feeling,

and writing as a poet. Patience, industry, a memory for detail, he

had, even logical and inductive power of a certain intuitive intermittent

kind, not sustained, indeed, or always reliable, for his was not a logical,

or in details an accurate mind, and surface inconsistencies are not hard

to find in his writings ; but as a poet, even if he saw all sides, he could
not express them all at once. The very keenness of his sympathy, the

intensity with which he realized all that was passing around him, made
it impossible for him to maintain the calm unruffled judgment of men of

a less fiery temperament, or to abstract and devote himself to the pursuit
of any one branch of study without being constantly distracted from it

and urged in some new direction by the joys and sorrows of the surging

world around, to seek if by any means he might find a medicine to heal

its sickness.

   " Hence it may, perhaps, be that another generation will not fully

realize the wide-spread influence, the great power, he exercised through

his writings. For, in a sense, it may be said that, as to some of them,

not their least merit is that in part they will not live, except as the seed

lives in the corn which grows, or water in the plant which it has revived.

For their power often lay mainly in the direction of their aim at the
special need of the hour, the memory of which has passed, or will pass,

away. As his 'Master,' as he affectionately and humbly called Mr.
Maurice, was a theologian, and, in its original sense, a ' Prophet,' so

Mr. Kingsley, as Priest and Poet, gloried in interpreting, expanding,

Iapplying him. ' think this will explain a good deal of Maurice,' was
Ithe single remark heard him make when he had completed ' Yeast.'

   " In later years, as his experience widened, his judgment ripened, his

conclusions were more calmly formed. But his genius was essentially

of a kind that comes to maturity early, when the imagination is still

Ivivid, the pulses of life beat fastest, and the sympathies and affections

are most passionately intense. And venture to think that these com
paratively early years were amongst the best of his life, best in all senses.

It was at this time, the first half of the year 1850, that he completed
' Alton Locke,' which, containing though it may more faults, sweeping

      vol. 1.                                              x

306 Charles Kings ley.

accusations, hasty conclusions, than any of his writings, is nevertheless
his noblest and most characteristic book -- at once his greatest poem and

his"gWraintdhestthesegrrmeaotn.outside world, with the world of politicians and the

press, and still more with the religious world, so called, as represented
by the religious newspapers, he was in those years at open war.
Popular as he afterwards became, it is difficult now to realize how great

was the suspicion, how bitter the attacks, especially from the religious

newspapers, which his books and sermons drew down upon him. Not

that he    in general  cared much for praise or blame from the     newspaper
press, so   venal and   unprincipled did he -- not without reason
                                                                   --consider

most of Whig, Tory, Radical, and religious. At that time he didit,

not take in or read any daily paper. The Spectator, then edited by Mr.

Rintoul, and with Mr. Brimley for its chief critic, was almost his only

source of news.

  "It was then about two years after the events of 1848, and for him

the one all-important and absorbing question of Politics was the
condition, physical and mental, of the working-classes and the poor in

town and country. On that question he considered that all the leading

parties of the legislature had alike shown themselves indifferent and in
capable. This conviction, and deep sympathy with the suffering poor,
                                      a
had made him Radical. Nay, on at least one occasion, he publiclya
and deliberately declared himself Chartist-- name which then meant

  great deal, -- and for Clergyman to do this was an act the boldness of
a                a                                  a
                             a
                                                         it
which  it      difficult to appreciate now.
           is                                              I
   " So vividly did he realize the sufferings of the poor, so keenly did he

feel what he deemed the callousness and the incompetence of the Go

vernment to alleviate them, and the mass of the upper and middle classes,

that at times he seemed to look, with trembling, for the coming of greata
and terrible social convulsions, of day of the Lord,' such as Isaiaha'
looked for, as the inevitable fate of world grown evil, yet governed
still by righteous God. In later years this feeling gradually left him--a

already, perhaps, was beginning to fade. But was no mere pulpit
                 I It it
or poetic gust.           penetrated  think) occasionally even to the lesser
                                    a

                                      (I

                                               it,
matters of daily life. Late one dark night he called me out to him

into the garden to listen to distant sound, which he told me was
                                                                   by
fox's bark, bidding me remember for foxes might soon cease to be      it
                                                                                   a
in England, and might never hear one bark again.                   in an

   "This phase of his life has been described by one who knew

earlier stage, and far better than    I.            will only say that, looking back

                                         I

upon his daily life and conversation at that time, believe he was

democratic in his opinions rather than in his instincts, more      force of

                    Letter from Mr. Martineau.             307

conviction than by natural inclination. A doctrinaire, or a lover of

change for the sake of change, he never was ; and when he advocated

democratic measures, it was more as a means to an end than because

he altogether liked the means. From the pulpit, and with his pen, he
claimed brotherhood with all men. No man in his daily intercourse

respected with more scrupulous courtesy the rights, the dignity of the

humblest. But he instinctively disliked a 'beggar on horseback.'

Noblesse oblige, the true principle of feudalism, is a precept which shines

out conspicuously in all his books, in all his teaching, at this period of

his life as at all others.

   " In later years his convictions became more in accord with this

natural tendency of his mind, and he gradually modified or abandoned

his democratic opinions, thereby, of course, drawing down upon himself
the reproach of inconsistency from those who considered that he had

deserted them. To me, looking back at what he was when he wrote
' Yeast,' and ' Alton Locke,' the change seems rather the natural develop
ment of his mind and character under more or less altered circumstances,

partly because he saw the world about him really improving, partly

because by experience he found society and other existing institutions

more full of healthy life, more available as instruments of good, more

wil"linBgutt,oatbethtaatugtihmt,e,thiannhhisebhoaodksfoarmnderplyamtphhoulegths,t. and often in his daily
familiar speech, he was pouring out the whole force of his eager,

passionate heart, in wrath and indignation, against starvation wages,

stifling workshops, reeking alleys, careless landlords, roofless and

crowded cottages, hard and canting religion. His ' Poacher's Widow '

is a piercing, heart-rending cry to heaven for vengeance against the
oppressor. ' There is a righteous God,' is its burthen, ' and such things

cannot, and shall not, remain to deface the world which He has made.

Laws, constitutions, churches, are none of His if they tolerate such ;
they are accursed, and they must perish -- destroy what they may in their
                    will perish in their own corruption.'
fall.    Nay, they                                         led him to tell me
       One day, as  he was reading with me, something
   "

of the Bristol Riots of 1832. He was in that year a schoolboy of

thirteen, at Bristol, and had slipped away, fascinated by the tumult and
                               He described -- rapidly pacing up and
the horror, into the midst of  it.
                                   ;
                                                                                                     in
down the room, and, with glowing, saddened face, as though the sight

were still before his eyes, --the brave, patient soldiers sitting hour after

hour motionless on their horses, the blood streaming from wounds on

their heads and faces, waiting for the order which the miserable, terrified

Mayor had not courage to give the savage, brutal, hideous mob of
human wretches plundering, destroying, burning; casks of spirits broken

308 Charles Kingsley.

open and set flowing in the streets, the wretched creatures drinking it on

their knees from the gutter, till the flame from a burning house caught

the stream, ran down it with a horrible rushing sound, and, in one

dreadful moment, the prostrate drunkards had become a row of black

ened corpses. Lastly, he spoke of the shamelessness and the impunity

of  "th'eTghuaitltysig; htth,'e   persecution and   the suicide  of the innocent.
                                 he said, suddenly   turning to
                                                                 me, ' made me a                            Radical.'
    " ' Whose fault is it,' I ventured to ask, ' that such things can be ' ?
    " ' Mine,' he said, ' and yours.'
    " I understood partly then, I have understood better since, what his

Radicalism was.

  " From his home life I scarcely dare, even for a moment, try to lift the
veil. I will only say that having had the priceless blessing of admission

to the daily sight of him in the closest of his home relations has left
    a it,
me deeper debt of gratitude, and more precious memories, created

higher hopes and a higher ideal, than all other manifestations combined
of his character and intellect. To his wife -- so he never shrank from
               deep and humble thankfulness -- he owed the whole tenor
affirming  in

of his life, all that he had worth living for. It was true. And his

every word and look, and gesture of chivalrous devotion for more than

thirty years, seemed to show that the sense of boundless gratitude had

become part of his nature, was never out of the undercurrent of his

thoughts. Little thinking that he was to be taken first, and with the

prospect of a long agony of loneliness imminent from hour to hour, the

last flash of genius from his breaking heart was to gather into three

simple, pregnant words, as last offering to her, the whole story of his
                                 '

                                             a

                                                                                                         '
life, of the Faith he preached and lived in, of his marriage, blessed, and

yet to be blessed. He was spared that agony. Over his grave first

are written his words,

                                 Amavimus, amamus, amabimus. "

CHAPTER XI.

1852.

Aged 33.

Strike in the Iron-Trade-- Correspondence on Social and Metaphysical
                                to Fir Grove -- Parson Lot's last
Questions -- Mr. Erskine comes   Daughter-- Hexameters-- Poetry-
Words-- Birth of his youngest

Letter FROM FREDERIKA BREMER.

I" do not like to decline bearing my share of the odium, thinking that what many
Imen call ' caution ' in such matters, is too often merely a selfish fear of getting
oneself into trouble or ill-will.  am quite sure that I would never gratuitously court
Iodium or controversy, but must beware also of too much dreading it ; and the love

of ease  is likely to be a more growing temptation than the love of notoriety

or the pleasure of argument."      Dr. Arnold.

           CHAPTER XL

The short holiday of the past year had so far invigorated

Charles Kingsley that he worked without a curate for a time.

The literary work was hampered by the heavy correspondence,

principally with strangers, who little knew what labour each letter

cost him. Of one very valuable series of letters with the son of

a clergyman, a young man of atheistical opinions, connected with
the " Reasoner," newspaper, and who eventually died a professing

Christian, only two letters are preserved, the rest having been by

the will of their owner destroyed at his death, as referring to a

phase in his life which it would be painful to his family to recall.

Another series, to Thomas Cooper, the Chartist, though spread

over this and several years, will be given together in a later
chapter. His literary work consisted of " Hypatia," now coming
out monthly in " Fraser's Magazine " ; " Phaeton," and a reply to
an attack on Christian Socialism in " Fraser's Magazine," which

was not inserted. In the summer he amused himself by trying
his hand at hexameters, and began the 'poem of " Andromeda."

His parish work prevented his helping personally in the Co

operative Movement in London ; but he was consulted from time
to time by the Council of Promoters, and in the great lock-out

of the Iron Trade in January he wrote to explain his views on
the matter. This letter " will show," as Mr. Hughes truly says,
" how far Kingsley was an encourager of ' violent measures or
views.' "
                                                                        *

           TO TOM HUGHES, ESQ.

" You may have been surprised              Eversley, January 28, 1852.
                               at my having taken no part in this
I IAmalgamated Iron Trades' matter. And think that am bound to
I Isay why have not, and how far wish my friends to interfere in
                                                                  it.

312 Charles Kingsley.

  " I do think that we, the Council of Promoters, shall not be wise in
interfering between masters and men ; because -- i. I question whether

the points at issue between them can be fairly understood by any per

sons not conversant with the practical details of the trade

  I" 2. Nor do think they have put their case as well as they might.

For instance, if it be true that they themselves have invented many, or

most, of the improvements in their tools and machinery, they have an
argument in favour of keeping out unskilled labourers, which is unan

swerable, and yet what they have never used --viz. : 'Your masters

make hundreds and thousands by these improvements, while we have

no remuneration for this inventive talent of ours, but rather lose by             is
                                                                                     a it,
because          makes the introduction of unskilled labour more easy.
       3I.
Therefore the only way which we can get anything like payment
             it              in                        aa
                                                             is
                                   if                                       a
for this inventive faculty of which we make you        present over and

above our skilled labour, for which you bargained,     to demand that

we, who invent the machines, we cannot have share in the profits
of them, shall at least have the exclusive privilege of using them,

instead of their being, as now, turned against us.' That, think,
                                                       it

                                                                   I
fair argument; but have seen nothing of from any speaker or
                             I
writer.
                                                  '
   "
                                                   is
               think whatever battle                   fought, must be fought by the men

themselves. The present dodge of the Manchester school                a is     to cry

out against us, as Greg did, These Christian Socialists are set of

mediaeval parsons, who want to hinder the independence and self-help
of the men, and bring them back to absolute feudal maxims; and then,
                                                       a

                                                               '
with the most absurd inconsistency, when we get up Co-operative

workshop, to let the men work on the very independence and self-help

of which they talk so fine, they turn round and raise just the opposite;'      ;
yell, and cry, The men can't be independent of capitalists these
associations will fail because the men are helping themselves' -- show

ing that what they mean      ; is,    that the men shall be independent of
every one but themselves -- independent of legislators, parsons, ad

visers, gentlemen, noblemen, and every one that tries to help them

by moral agents but the slaves of the capitalists, bound to them by
servitude increasing instead of lightening with their numbers. Now,
                                                       it

                                                                                       '
                                                                                             is
                                                                                                              a
the only way in which we can clear the cause of this calumny,                     to let

the men fight their own battle to prevent any one saying, These men
are the tools of dreamers and fanatics,' which would be just as ruinously

blackening to them in the public eyes, as would be to let the cry get

abroad, This                 Socialist movement, destructive of rights of property,
         '

                    is
                          a

Communism, Louis Blanc, and the devil, &c.' You know the infernal
stuff which the devil gets up on such occasions -- having no scruples

                          Association and the Government.                                          313

about calling himself hard names when it suits his purpose, to blind

and   frighten respectable old                            women.   poor  distressed  needle-women  or
      Moreover, these men                                 are not
   "

slop-workers. They are the most intelligent and best educated work

men, receiving incomes often higher than a gentleman's son whose

education has cost 1000/. ; and if they can't fight their own battles, no

men in England can, and the people are not ripe for association, and
we must hark back into the competitive rot heap again. All, then, that
we can do to give advice when asked -- to see that they have, as far
a
            is 'as we can get at them, clear stage and no favour, but not by public,
                   a      is
but   by private influence.      a                        in  another  way, by showing  them the way
                     is,But we can help them
   "                                      a
                                                     a

                                                      if
to associate. That quite distinct question from their quarrel with

their masters, and we shall be very foolish we give the press handle
                                                                                        a

for mixing up the two. We have right to say to masters, men, and

public, We know, and care nothing about the iron strike. Here are

   body  of             men coming                    to   us, wishing to be shown how to       do that
which                    right thing                for                                           or no
                                                          them to do --well or ill off, strike

strike, namely, associate and we will help and teach them to do that
                                                    ;

to "thTehveeryIrountmWosotrkoefrso'urcop-oowpeerr.a' tive shops will be watched with lynx

eyes, calumniated shamelessly. Our business will be to tell the truth

about them, and fight manfully with our pens for them. But we shall

never be able to get the ears of the respectabilities and the capitalists,
                                                                                                                                              If
we appear at this stage of the business. What we must say                :
if
                                                                           a
                                                 ;                                  aa
you are needy and enslaved, we will fight for you from pity, whether you
                                                                                        if
be associated or competitive. But you are neither needy, nor, unless
                                                                                                                 is,
you choose, enslaved and therefore we will only fight for you in pro
                                                                                                                                           '
portion as you become associates.                                  Do that, and see     we can't stand
hard knocks for your sake.' "

A few months later, having heard that Bill for legalizing

Industrial Associations was about to be introduced into the

House of Commons, and that perhaps cabinet minister would
                          he writes to Mr. Hughes --
undertake    is, it,
                           is

                             in
                                    a
" Let him be assured that he will by such                                            move do more to

carry out true Conservatism, and to reconcile the workmen with the

real aristocracy, than any politician for the last twenty years has done.

The truth we are                                    critical situation here in England. Not in one
of danger -- which
                          the vulgar material notion of crisis, but at the
                                                                                     a

crucial point, the point of departure of principles and parties which will

314 Charles Kingsley.

hereafter become great and powerful. Old Whiggery is dead, old true
blue Toryism of the Robert Inglis school is dead too -- and in my eyes

a great loss. But as live dogs are better than dead lions, let us see

what the live   dogs are.      who  will  ultimately,  be sure, absorb into them
                Peelites,
   " i. --The

selves all the remains of Whiggery, and a very large proportion of the

Conservative party. In an effete unbelieving age, like this, the Sadducee
and the Herodian will be the most captivating philosopher. A scien

tific laziness, lukewarmness, and compromise, is a cheery theory for
Ithe young men of the day, and they will take to it con amore.
                                                                                          don't

complain of Peel himself. He was a great man, but his method of

compromise, though useful enough in particular cases when employed

by a great man, becomes a most dastardly 'schema mundi' when taken

up by a school of little men. Therefore, the only help which we can

                                    that they will serve as ballast and cooling
hope for from the Peelites          is is,

pump to both parties, but their very trimming and moderation makeis I

them fearfully likely to obtain power. It depends on the wisdom ofif

the"  present government,      whether they do or not. it,              from whom  Heaven
                               the Manchester School,            is is
      2. --Next you have

defend us; for of all narrow, conceited, hypocritical, and anarchic

and atheistic schemes of the universe, the Manchester one exactly
                                                                                   ' is
the worst.      have no language to express my contempt for                            it,  and
therefore
I              quote what Maurice wrote me this morning.                                  If the
       II
Ministry would have thrown Protection to the dogs (as trust they        I
have, in spite of the base attempts of the Corn Law Leaguers to goadit

them to committing themselves to          and to hold them up as the

people's enemies), and thrown themselves into social measures, who                          aa
would not have clung to them, to avert that horrible catastrophe of

Manchester ascendancy, which believe in my soul would be fatal to

intellect, morality, and freedom, and will be more likely to move

rebellion among the working men than any Tory rule which can be

conceived?'            would.  To pretend to be the workmen's friends, by

   " Of course

keeping down the price of bread, when all they want thereby to keep        is

down wages, and increase profits, and in the meantime to widen the

gulf between the working man and all that time-honoured, refined,

and chivalrous in English society, that they may make the men

their divided slaves, that -- perhaps half unconsciously, for there
are excellent men amongst them --the game of the Manchester

School.
    " have never swerved from my one idea of the last seven years,

that the real battle of the time -- England to be saved from anarchy

                      A True Democracy.                              315

and unbelief, and utter exhaustion caused by the competitive enslave

ment of the masses--not Radical or Whig against Peelite or Tory (let

the dead bury their dead), but the Church, the gentleman, and the

workman, against the shopkeepers and the Manchester School. The

battle could not have been fought forty years ago, because, on one side,

the Church was an idle phantasm, the gentleman too ignorant, the

workman too merely animal ; while, on the other, the Manchester

cotton-spinners were all Tories, and the shopkeepers were a distinct

class interest from theirs. But now these two latter have united, and the

sublime incarnation of shop-keeping and labour-buying in the cheapest

market shines forth in the person of Nebuchadnezzar and Son, and both
cotton-spinners and shop-keepers say, ' This is the man !' and join in

one common press to defend his system. Be it so : now we know our

true enemies, and soon the working men will know them also. But if

the present Ministry will not see the possibility of a coalition between
Ithem and the workmen,
                        see no alternative but just what we have
been straining every nerve to keep off -- a competitive United States,

a democracy before which the work of ages will go down in a few

Iyears. A true democracy, such as you and should wish to see, is
Iimpossible without a Church and a Queen, and, as believe, without a

gentry. On the conduct of statesmen it will depend whether we are

gradually and harmoniously to develop England on her ancient founda

tions, or whether we are to have fresh paralytic governments succeeding

each other in doing nothing, while the workmen and the Manchester

School fight out the real questions of the day in ignorance and fury, till
' culbute generale ' comes, and gentlemen of ancient family, like your

humble servant, betake themselves to Canada, to escape, not the Amal
gamated Engineers, but their ' masters,' and the slop-working savages

whom their masters' system has created, and will by that time have

multiplied tenfold."

   We now come to the more private correspondence of the

year.

                      TO ESQ.

"... II will answer you as shortly as   EVERSLEV, February 20, 1852.
                                       can by a few hints.
I" 1. Of whatsoever you predicate Time you must also predicate Space.
See whether you can predicate the latter of God.  will send you on

shortly some papers on these two points, which please return.        Kant
   " 2. Your definition of the ideas of the pure reason is correct.

does not see that they belong to the moral world ; but his argument to

31 6 Charles Kingsley.

prove time and space to be, as far as we know, only modes of human
Iconception, can, think, hardly be answered.
"      I do not think time an instinctive idea, but
                                                     altogether  a concep
   3.
tion abstracted from our own experience of the succession of natural

phenomena, whether subjective or objective.

  I" 4. That you cannot imagine it possible for time not to be, doubt

not; were it an idea of the pure reason you would not be able to imagine

it itself at all, any more than you can imagine beauty itself, or good
itself. For imagination is of the psychical understanding, and not of the

reason. And as all imagination-conceptions are merely reconciliations
of phenomena which experience has shown us, in the realm of time and

space, it is impossible to form any conception of any matter, even of

God, without predicating, consciously or unconsciously, time and space

as its necessary material. Try and imagine God infinite, or almighty, -as

well as eternal, and you will, if you analyze the image presented to your
mshian"lld5,.boseBtheuteaisgthureeperpo:t--sime ew, eorlayspdaocew,northbeotfho,lloaws inthgeiprroSp\ro)s'iWtioonwsi,/uVtio;. which we
       " God
       " God  is  a  Spirit.
              is  a  Will.
       " God is Righteousness.
       " God is Love.
" Of none of these four can you form any conception-image, by any

acts of abstraction or concretion. And in neither of these four does

Time appear.                                                     That will
   " You may hesitate a little about the first proposition.

serve us for future matter. But you will agree that in defining God,

time does not appear. As soon as you connect the Not-God, or universe,
with God, time does begin to enter the field. As thus God willed --
something which was not God. God loved -- something which is not
God. God did right -- to something which is not God. Here the

conception of time springs not from God, but from the Not-God, or

universe.

   " But there is a case in which God in action does not involve the idea
of time. And that is in the mystery of the ever-blessed Trinity. In the
eternal generation of the Son, in the eternal loving of the Father and

the Son, in the eternal procession of the Spirit from both. There the

absolute acts, but it acts on the absolute, and therefore time is elimi

nated from the--not conception, for it is inconceivable -- but from the

ideas of the mystery of the Trinity. On this we must talk some

oth"erBudtayn.ow remains God in contact with time, as acting on the time-

                                      Time and the Logos.                                                    317

I Iand-space universe. And here, frankly tell you, must go beyond you,

and frankly, on the warrant of Scripture, attribute succession, division,
before and after, time and space, to God ; that is to the Logos -- is qui
Xcyrrat -- is divided and articulate, in all senses. Read in the light of

Ithe first chapter of St. John's Gospel, the so-called ' anthropomorphic
metaphors ' of the Old Testament, which                                  believe to contain solemn

and literal truths, will receive light. And the doctrine of the Logos, as

found in Clemens Alexandrinus, Philo and the Easterns will give us

Ima"nyNomwore     hints  of the truth.    Christian theologians,                           that whatsoever   is
                 hold,
                         with the best

spoken of God as working in time, is spoken of the Logos. And that

the fault of Calvinism that ignoring utterly the doctrine of the Logos
-- and really leaving out the first chapter of St. John's Gospel, condiis,
tions the Father by those laws of time and space which are in thea
                                                                                     a
                                                            '
                                                                                        if
                                                 aI
                                                                                           I

                                                                                                         a it
                                                                                                                         it
     hands of the Son, by whom He made the worlds, and by whom He rules

     the worlds and does very much confound the persons,' after which
               II : ;
in isforced, in order to restore something like moral equilibrium to its

     theory, to 'divide the substance.'                        will tell you what mean some

     other time.                                                                           evil had positive

        " Lastly beware how you talk of seed of evil, as

     existence, and were something, and not merely state of disharmony

     with and disobedience to law. But Augustine must fight that battle

     with you.        will send you some references to his works on that point.
        " Next,      accept your definition of God's apprehension of past and

     future as all present, provided that you will remember that in saying pre

     sent, you mean present time (for you cannot give definition of present,
       the sense in which you use which does not involve before and after),          is a
                                      a
                                                      it,

                                                           is
     in defining them. As -- present                           time which                not time before, not
     time after -- whether spiritual presentation may not be something quite

     different, the question in hand, though one which cannot solve,
                 is                                                                        I                 it

     being beyond conception.
        " But now, let me take you on grounds whereon we agree, and which

     believe to be the only grounds on which the matter can be at all seen
I

                                   '
     rightly.                         an  idea of the pure reason.

        " You say that good                law -- agree as utterly
                                      '                                                        agree utterly.
                                                                                               before. But
                                         is                                                is I
                                                 a
                                                                                                    ?
                                                  I                                                  it
                                                                                                         is
                                                                      a
     And that all things are under                                                         as

       little to know that they are under law, unless we know whether
     a it
          is

                    is
                        a

                               a
     they are under good law or not. The former assertion may satisfy the

     psychical understanding of man, the same faculty which satisfied when

       book put straight on the table but will not satisfy his spirit, the
                                                               ;

                                                                        it
                                                                                 is
     moral faculty or heart of him. You say, all well, because                                               in the

     hands of wise and good God. How do you know that How do

3 1 8 Charles Kingsley.

you know all is well ? How do you know that His law is a good one ?

First, you must define your predicates. What does well mean ? What
does good mean ? You will not surely say, arguing in a circle, ' God

does whatsoever is right,' and then, ' right is whatsoever God may hap

pen to do ! ' At least, Abraham was not of the opinion of those who

think a thing right, merely because they think that God did it or may
do He asked, shall not the judge of all the earth do right He
if it.            '                                    '
                      a                                                 '

                                                                    is
                                                                                              ' ?'
knew that there was right, and expected God to know the same, and
to act up to that right. Is God's right, then, God's righteousness

at all like man's right and man's righteousness ?-- Reason says yes,'

for there be no absolute right, and good, which the same for God,

man, angel, and devil,   I   cannot see how good can be an idea of

the pure reason. Consider this most carefully, and remember that

Plato, who first preached ideas, considers them always as subjective

reflexions in man, of eternal realities in God. Moreover the Bible de

clares that man's goodness and God's goodness are identical. For

not content with telling us that man qua man                                                     God's
                                                       it made

                                                                     a
                                                                           is
                                                                                             in
image (which indeed to say all want), tells us that God, the Son of
God, became man, and showed forth the express likeness of God's perfect
                  is             'I
righteousness, in the righteous acts and life of man. And when weis
read history in the gospels, we find that all which He considered to be
the likeness of His Father's righteousness and to be His Father's will,

....and therefore did,exactly what men, even the heathens, say righteousis

for men to do           with one exception. With one exception -- and in

God's name, look what that is. Do unto others as ye would they should

do unto you. Forgive and ye shall be forgiven. Except your righteous
ness exceed that of the Scribes and Pharisees, who say an eye for an

eye, and tooth for tooth, ye shall in no wise enter into the Kingdomait is
of Heaven. Be ye perfect as your Father in Heaven perfect. Fora
He makes His sun to shine on the evil and the good, and His rain tois

.... ....fall on the just and on the unjust, and good to the unthankful and theis
evil God love. He so loved the world that He gave his onlyis

begotten Son for             He willeth not the death of sinner, but
                                                              a
that all should be converted and live. It not His will that one little
                                                                  '
child should perish.' Here the full unveiling of the idea of the good.'is

Love, mercy, boundless forbearance, forgiveness, condescension, going

to seek and to save those who are lost in short, the revelation of                                  ?a
                                 it
Father. And can you say that         is

                                                    ;
                                     consistent with such character
                                                              a

to bring the vast majority of the human race into existence, simply

for inevitable torment and despair for ever?           I  appeal to your own

idea of good. Would you make anything which you were certain
would be miserable for the majority of its existence, much less for ever

                         Self-will.                                                   319

Are you satisfied when you see a poor sinner going straight towards
If'hell?' If God is satisfied at seeing him damned, are you ?
Iflove is content, is yours ?                                                         God's
                               God's pity is shut up, is yours ? If

God wills that he should have no hope or chance for ever, do you

will it ? Would you not be glad to see him saved ? Would you not,

now, honestly, be glad to save any living being from endless and

hopeless misery ? . . . . And is it the worse or the better part of you,

....the highest or the lowest, the righteous or the unrighteous, which

yearns after poor wretches going down to the pit ?
   " Pardon a scribble after two services and sermons, one extempore, and

waonictelhasiHss aoimnf cpoesnahfriinrrmeesatct)lioo:dnsb.uctanMidtyidisapteewosphloe(laelslaoromef ews,ilheinccthheae'ntrdafukleimwiptaoosrsukitv--eo,tfhobonuuetg,h'suwrsheloe--wn

Ioften surprising me by unexpected right-doing where had suspected

nothing but stupidity."

                         TO LORD

                                  PLAS GWYNNANT, April 25, 1852.
I I" am answering your letter, only just received,
                                                       fear, at a disad
I Ivantage ; for first, you seem to fancy me an older man than am. am

only two-and-thirty ; never was a tutor of Trinity or any other college,

and shall not be surprised or offended if you or any other person con

sider me on further enquiry too young to advise them.
I" Next, have not knowledge enough of you to give such advice as
Iwould be best for you.
                         have no nostrum for curing self-will and self-
I Iseeking ; am aware of none. It is a battle, suspect a life-long battle,

which each   man  must fight for himself, and   each  in his own way,                 and
against his  own                                each  man the evil of                 self-
                  private house-fiend --for in

seeking takes a different form. It must do so, if you consider what it

is. Self is not evil, because self is you, whom God made, and each
man's self is different from his neighbour's. Now God does not make

evil things, therefore He has not made self evil or wrong ; but you, or

self, are only wrong in proportion as you try to be something in and for

yourself, and not the child of a father, the servant of a lord, the soldier
of a general. So it seems to me. The fault of each man who thinks

and studies as you seem to have done, in the confession with which you
have honoured me, is the old fault of Lucifer. The planet is not con
Itented with being a planet ; it must be a sun ; and forthwith it falls from
heaven.      have no nostrum for keeping the planet in its orbit. It must

keep there itself and obey the law which was given and do the work
which was set to do, and then all will be well. Else will surely find
it
                                                                                 it,

                                                                           it

          320 Charles Kingsley.

          by losing the very brightness in which it gloried, that that brightness was

          not its own but a given and reflected one, which is not withdrawn from

          it as an arbitrary punishment for its self-seeking, but is lost by it neces

          sarily, and ipso facto, when it deflects from the orbit in which alone the

          sun's rays can strike full on                            You will say, this          pretty myth or
                       I                                                     I

                         I                                                            is
                               is                                                           a

                                        it.I
          otherwise. But you have done me the honour to ask me what you are

          to do, and this no answer to that question.                                will try and answer as

          honestly as can. You have said boldly, in words which pleased me
          much, though differ from them -- that ought not to ask you to try to
          cure self-seeking by idle prayer -- as                       if
                                                                             man by taking thought could
                                                                         aI

          add one cubit to his stature.                      was pleased with the words because
                                                                                                     ;

          they show me that you have found that there                        is      sort of prayer which           if is
                                                                                 a

          idle prayer and that you had sooner not pray at all than in that way.
          is,
                               ;
          Now of idle prayer think there are two kinds one of fetish prayer,
                                          aI I                                       :

          when by praying we seek to alter the will of God concerning us. Thisaa

          and has been, and will be common enough and idle enough. For
                                                                                                                    If bad,
          the will of Him concerning us be good, why should we alter
                                                                       ?

                                                                                                      it

                                                                                                                 ?
          what use praying to such Being at all Prometheus does not pray to

          Zeus, but curses and endures. Another, of praying to oneself to change

          oneself by which mean the common method of trying by prayer to
                   ;

          excite oneself into state, frame, an experience. This too common                           is

          enough among protestants and papists, as well as among unitarians and

          rationalists. Indeed some folks tell us that the great use of prayer                                      is

          its reflex' action on ourselves, and inform us that we can thus by taking
'

                ;

           if it

           I is
                     I

                                           a
                                                it

                                                          I

                                                                                                           is
          thought add certain cubits to our stature. God knows the temptation to

          believe                 great.  feel deeply. Nevertheless                           am not of that

          bel"ieBf ut  nor, think, are you.                  kind  of  prayer --the  kind     which                 set forth
                           there were third

          to us in the Lord's Prayer as the only one worth anything -- a prayer,

          not that God's will concerning us or anyone else may be altered, but

          that may be done that we may be kept out of all evil and delivered
a is,                             it
        itfrom all temptation which may prevent our doing                                     that we may have
                                          ;                                  ;
the apron emovtrcov given to us                 a
                                                                                   it

                                                                                           ;
                                                             it    body, soul, spirit, and circumstance,
                                                               in
          which will just enable us to do and no more that the name of Him

to whom we pray may be hallowed, felt to be as noble and sacred as                                                  ;

              and acted on accordingly. And that name were the simple nameif                                          a it
          of Father, does not seem that prayer of that kind -- the prayer, not of

             puling child but of full-grown or growing son, to his father

prayer to be taught duty, to be disciplined into obedience, to be given

strength of will, noble purpose, carelessness of self, delight in the will
and the purpose of his father -- would be the very sort of prayer which
-- supposing always, as do from ten years' experience, that father to
                                          I

                               God our Father,                              321

exist, and to hear, and to love, and to have prepared good works for
us to walk in -- to each man his own work, and his own education for

Ithat work-- Does it not seem to you, say, granting the hypothesis,

that that would be a sort of prayer which would mightily help a

man striving to get rid of his self-seeking, and to recover his God-

appointed place in the' order of the universe, and use, in that place,

the attainments which his father has given him to be used ? It seems

to me that such a man might look up to God and feel himself

most strong when he was confessing his own weakness, and then look

down at himself and all his learning, and see that he was most weak
when he was priding himself on his own strength -- that such a man
would be certain of having his prayers for light, strength, unselfishness,

answered, because then, indeed, his will would be working with God's

will. He would      be claiming   to be a      fellow-worker with    God ; to be a
son going about     his father's  business                          and sorrow, no
                                               --in deep shame

doubt, for having stolen God's tools, to use for his own aggrandisement

for so long,   but   with no   a  papist (or   rather   Jesuit) notion of making   a
sacrifice to  God   -- giving      present to          who has already given to   us
                                                Him

what we pretend to make a merit of giving Him. And such a man, it

seems to me, would have no difficulty in finding out what God intended

him to do ; for if he really believed himself a son, under a father's

education, he would believe everything which happened to be a part of
that education --every opportunity of doing good, trivial as well as

grand, a duty set him by his father to do. He would not be tempted

Ifto rush forth fanatically from the place where God had put him, to try
some mighty act of self-sacrifice.             the thing which lay nearest him

was the draining of a bog, or the giving employment to a pauper, or the
reclaiming of a poacher, he would stay where God had put him and try
to do it ; and believe that God had given him his nobility, or his learn

ing, or his gentleman's culture, just that he might be able the better

to do that part of his father's business there and then and no other.

He would consider over what he knew, what he could do, and would

determine to make all his studies, all his self-training bear upon the

peculiar situation in which God had put him ; not fanatically repro

bating, but still considering as of less importance whatsoever did not
bear on that situation. In all things, in short, he would do the duty

which lay nearest him, believing that God had put it nearest him.
  "And such a man, I believe, so praying, and so working, keeping before
him as his lode-star -- ' Our Father, hallowed be Thy name ; Thy kingdom

come ; Thy will be done on earth, as it is in          heaven    '  and  asking   for
                                                               !
Ihis daily bread for that purpose, and no other, would find, unless am
much mistaken, selfishness and self-seeking die out of him, and active

VOL. I.                                                                  Y

322 Charles Kingsley.

benevolence grow up in him. He would find trains of thought and
subjects of inquiry which he had pursued for his private pleasure, not

to mention past sorrows and falls, turned unexpectedly to practical use
for others' good ; and so discover to his delight, that his father had

been educating him, while he fancied that he was educating himself.

And while he was so working, and so praying, he would have neither
leisure nor need to torment himself about the motives of his actions,
but simply whatever his hand found to do, would do it with all his

might."

                                                                Eversley, May 6, 1852.
   "

II I Iand
    beg you never to apologize for writing. This is my business,

    learn, from the many such letters have, far more than teach.
I consider myself indebted most deeply to any man who will honestly
tell me the workings of his own mind. How can a physician learn

Ipathology without studying cases ? My fear is rather that shall bore

you with my method of haggling, after the Socratic example, over single

words, and refusing to stir a foot in the question till the meaning of

some particle or preposition has been settled. What took Augustine the

.... Inine best years of his life to fight through, may well take you as many.
It took me more ; and even now                    What am ?

                             ' An infant crying in the night ;
                              An infant crying for the light ;
                           And with no language but a cry.'

    I I" But as far as do see through a glass darkly, am bound to speak

boldly. Every fresh ray of light is a positive gain ; the fullest sunlight

is  o"nNlyowmapduettiunpg  of many   such.
                            aside a  great
                                            deal  which  your most  interesting  letter

makes me burn to say to you, let us take that one expression ' infinite
Iin space.'
             send you a rough sketch of a Socratic fragment on the sub

I Iject; you will see that it is altogether destructive. You must so far

trust me as to believe, that would not have sent it had not something
better to build up instead -- or rather to give you already built --for Plato

and Augustine will tell you all you need. Read those confessions and

Isee if they do not help you, and in the meantime will send you the
Iapodosis of the argument as soon as have time."

                                      TO THE SAME.

                                                   EVERSLEY, WHIT TUESDAY, June$, 1852.

  I" i. think you wrong in predicating space of God. My dialogue
was intended Ito show (what fear it must have failed in) that predica-

                         Space and Infinity.                                    323

ting any measured or unmeasured quantum of space of Him must in

volve us in contradictions.

  " 2. You will perceive, I think, that your method of argumentation is

not quite Socratic. You assume a definition of the term idea, and argue
I Ifrom that.
                       assume, if recollect, no arbitrary terms whatsoever, but

merely work out the meanings of the words by analysis as they come

before me.
   I"
     3.   think your definition of idea, though a very good one, is faulty,

for it applies, as you show, equally to infinity and to space. Now these

Itwo are not congeners, and think your mistake lies here : that space

is not 'a thing which cannot be perceived by the senses.' To me it

seems that we know nothing of it but by the senses. That is by seeing

bodies occupy space. That it is a pure abstraction from them, and no

more an idea than weight or form. That it        as Kant says at the be
                                                 is,
ginning of the Kritik,' the necessary condition of our perception. Mind,
          it                                       I

                    '
  don't agree with all that Kant says thereon. But he dare only go so farI
as giving an existence relative or subjective with regard to our own

perceptions, and distinctly states we have no right to predicate (as
                                                                              ; it
fear    you do)      as  an objective necessity of all beings in  themselves.   Our
        4. Now      our   idea of infinity not derived from        the senses.      is I
   "                                      is

notion of infinite or immeasured space is. But have tried to show

you that that            only partial infinity, having numberless fines (limits)
                    is
                                   a

in itself, and only illimited subjectively, i.e., because our own notion

refuses to cognise certain further limited portions which lie beyond and

beyond again for ever. What want you to conceive                  a       of an infinity
                                      aI                             is,
which has no internal limits, as well as no external ones, i.e., which

   not made up like yours of finite crowd which has no parts which
is is                                         ;
    a
            ispure negation of all which we can conceive of space and matter.
                 a
Yours             not this for you will examine  your idea of infinity
                         ;                       it,

                            it                        I

                                if
space + quality, i.e. space + no limits. In fact, want you to con
ceive --who can do but dimly and by negations? -- of Being of whom

it      as absurd to predicate greatness as smallness, time as space, exten
    is

sion as succession. And then would go on to ask you, whether your
                                      I

difficulties in that former letter about His power, did not proceed from

the same error as those about His extension. Namely, from condition

ing them by abstract notions derived from matter? Did not your

'power' only mean force?' Have you not been falling into the same
          iIf
                                     '
                                               a
                                                  (I

                                                                vI ?

                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                 a
error as Kant, Fichte, the Neo-platonists     was going to say Emersonians,

but really they hash up scraps of every old fallacy together in such

frantic borboro-taraxis, that one cannot tell what they mean), namely,

that you are trying to get at metaphysical conception of God
   " Now            do know anything --and you hardly guess how little know--

    324 Charles Kingsley.

    I know that that is impossible ; and for this reason. In all attempts to

deduce a conception of God from any mental consciousnesses of our own,

we must always start with the petitio principii that those consciousnesses
of ours can measure Him ; that the inferior being can comprehend --go

all round, and take in the superior one, and that with only one organ of
His many ones. He may be able to do who knows but even he
                                ;                                                       if

                                                it,

                                                 I
                                                                                ?
    succeeds must be peradventure i.e., in an illogical and indemonstrable
      a

               it
    way, on account of that first petitio principii. And think Kant himself

    saw this, when in his Theodicy he upsets every other metaphysical proof

    of God. Not that he succeeds any better himself; for he gives you,
    or informs you that he gives you -- am sure
                                    I                forget what, a sort of
                                                I

    Euclid's point not only without parts and without magnitude, but;

is ' sans everything.' A ghastly, cold, immoral, minute negative no-thing--

    ....which
      ' if     comforted his soul he must have been very easily pleased.

           it
    But -- throw away all this  throw clean away, as vain effort of
                                      it

                                                                        a

    man by searching to find out God,' and consider, that this method,

    like Kant's, never touches that phase of the divine substance which only
       important to us-- that phase of which alone He has deigned to speak

    in His own revelation of Himself, and then you will see that you have

thrown away nothing.      He reveals Himself purely as moral substance.
Why will you persist                                            a                       If you
                                                                                ?
                      in  cognizing Him as an intellectual one

do the latter, you cannot help continually disturbing Him to fit the sub
jective modes of your own intellect -- time, space, cause, and the rest of

    them which are no things,   as Lange says      no Gods.'
       " But look at the moral  side. The first    thing which
                                is                              strikes            you  is  that
                                    a

                                                  '
    He has revealed Himself as the Father. There you have no intellectual

    conception, but a practical relation to you, and that one of the purest

                                    spiritual relation. First cause, omni
    ....transcendental moral. Father
    potent force, &c. are only intellectual ones     Take the higher ground

    which He Himself offers you, and then these Calvinistic and Spinozistic

    doubts (for they are identical at root) will seem to you simply para
    logisms of men who have bought    wooden doll, and complain that
                                    a
                                                            a

                                                        iIs, it

                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                 .

                                                                                      ."
it    won't speak. The error of Calvinism has been that                            has refused

    to cognize God simply on His own moral ground, and has mixed up

    certain metaphysic notions about time (in predestination), force (in
    irresistible grace), &c., &c., with its theology. This
                                                                                   fear, all very

    incoherent, but you will excuse great haste and weary brain

                                TO THE SAME.

     "... Now, as to Time. think,                         EVERSLEY, yune 15, 1852.
                                               you would try time Socratically,
    by the same method as have tried          space, you would find that the
                          I
                              I

                                            if

                 Neo Platonism and its Results.                               325

Iattribution of it to God would involve analogical absurdities.               say
this out of mere laziness ; conscience tells me that I ought to set it

down and do it for you, having started the question : but will you have

                 man who has    a child nine     days old ?
                  done as soon   as can.         Nevertheless,-^//
Ipatience with a                                                    passant,  pray
  " It shall be

be vexed no more at taking up any time of mine. Letters like these

Iare a recreation after book-writing and parish-visiting when am at

.... Iwork ; and just now, when the former is stopped by family circum
stances, they are a sacred duty. have finished fifteen pages of Harriet
                           after an afternoon's pike-fishing, to which I
Martineau's book

took out of mere inability to sit quiet at home without a wife down

Istairs.   So do not fancy that you take up my time                 boat-building.
          liked to hear that you were teaching a carpenter
   "

Men ought to know how to do such things ; and gentlemen and

noblemen ought to find an honour in teaching them. I, alas ! have no

such constructive genius, being, except in poetry and drawing, merely

destructive -- a slayer of animals, which of course, as a clergyman, public

opinion requires me to indulge in very little ; and perhaps rightly. But

luckily, shooting I hate; fishing is par excellence the parson's sport, and
Ihunting am preserved from, by the double demurrers of an execrable

Ihunting country, and pride, which forbids me to ride, unless am as
Iwell mounted as the rest. So am not a ' sporting parson ' after all.

   " But what has all this to do with the object of our intimacy ? For

Igive"me         myself a  Platonist ;  and  my  aim  is to  draw   men,  by  show
        confess

ing them that the absolute ' God the Father,' whom no man hath seen,

is beyond all possible intellectual notions of ours ; to feel the necessity
of believing in a 'God the Son' in whom that indefinable absolute will
and morality is manifested in space and time, under a form -- not human

till He took flesh, but still, as the Bible tells us from beginning to end,

Ithe archetype of humanity. Moreover, want to make men feel that

the merely intellectual cognition of either of the three persons of the

Trinity is ifso facto' void ; because all intellectual cognition on such

points must start from the assumption of self and of the universe as the

fixed datum--that the former must lead to Pantheism, under which I

class the Neo-Platonism of Alexandria, and the Neo-Platonico-Eclectico-

Borborotaraxticism of Emerson, Fichte, and the whole of the German,

American, English, spiritualists (not excluding Goethe himself, in his
ultimate teaching), and that the latter must lead, as with Atkinson, and

Harriet Martineau, to materialist atheism. When I say must lead, I
Imean logically. Everyone, thank God, is better than his creed -- mean

his real heart's belief. Humanity and common sense are too mighty

326 Charles Kingsley.

even for H. Martineau and Atkinson ; but they will not be so for their
disciples. Their disciples will formulise, systematise, carry out --per

secute ; and then find themselves ending, in a generation or two, to

the astonishment of their Atkinsonian and Emersonian papas and

mammas, in all manner of fetish-worship ; out-popery-ing popery itself.

Honestly believing this horoscope from all induction from history

I Iwhich can collect, want as long as life, and as far as wisdom is given

to me, to put the anthropology of men of my own generation on as

Isound a footing as can, that their children and grandchildren may

have some fixed ideas concerning God, and man, and the universe, to
fall back on, and fight from, when the evil day comes -- as come, unless

the tide turns, it surely will. And when a man of your position writes

to me about such matters, I feel no labour too great which may help

him even in the least to see and to teach the good old way by which

St. Paul and Augustine struggled out of mists and quagmires, to which

any"   in these  days   are, after all, shallow   and transparent     chloroform.
       Let me    thank   you most cordially      for your hint about

As for ' forbidden ground,' can there be forbidden ground between hus

....band and husband ; or between two human beings who wish to diminish
by one atom the amount of human suffering ?       It is a real delight

to my faith, as well as to my pity, to know that that suffering of child
Ibirth can be avoided. It is the one thing which
                                                  hate and curse, as

the deepest paradox and puzzle upon earth ; but when it is proved to
.... Ime that man can ' by obeying nature, conquer her,' in that also am
content.         The popular superstition that it is the consequence of
Ithe fall cannot but smile at -- seeing it is contradicted by the plain
.... Iwords of the text which is quoted to prove it--' will greatly multiply
thy sorrow and thy conception.'                  It being yet a puzzle to me, as

a Cambridge man, how the multiplication of o can produce a number,

o  x"  A" used to = o, did it not ?
       Pray read the ' History of Moral
                                                 and Metaphysical Philosophy,' by
Maurice ; a little golden book. It is a new world of thought and reve

lation in the true sense. . . . ."

                                     TO THE SAME..

                                " i. Man is God's Image.

  " He need not, therefore, be equal with God in any Lockite sense of

' as big as,' but in the sense of the Greek "<ros (invaluable metaphysic
word), in which you may say that a miniature, however small, is cVos to
the face it represents (ie., in idea).

                             Christ the Archetypal Man.                                                                              327

Ii.e., as take               " 2. Christ is the Son of Man,

'                            the absolute and archetypal man.

   I
                        it,
" hold, privately, that we have right to say, on the authority of--
                                '

                                                 is a

                                                   I

                                                                                                                                  :
the Lord was madeyfor// (not made man), that he was man before the
incarnation, just as much as He
                                              now.     may be wrong in the

meanwhile, find such fearful difficulty in making Christians believe
'

    I
                  is
            I
that He man since His ascension (in any real and practical sense),
that shrink utterly from puzzling them with the notion that He was

the Son of Man who           of isin heaven,' even while He was upon earth
                                                                                                                                     I
especially as Augustine has given             against me by the palpable
                                       it                                                                                               is
                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                ;
paralogism, He calls himself, while on earth, the Son Man who in
             '                                                 ?

heaven, because as Son God he was still heaven.' To which can     of
Ifonly answer,
                             so, why did not the Lord say so himself, and leave so

strange an ambiguity to be corrected by Augustine                   An restc, send
                                                                               I

you back all your own letter, because think that, taking my ground,
                                       II
you"rNseexcto,ndas  page explains the  whole matter.   have    my little  (it  is                                                    very
                    to the Athanasian    Creed, too                                a

                                                                                                  :
little) quarrel with that equal to the Father, as touching His Godhead'

but inferior to the Father, as touching his manhood.' The former

clause accept toto avlo because the Cardinal idea, on which the whole
I                            ;
                                 (a
    is
                                       it
       II                                    is

                                               I

                                                                it)

                                                                I

                                                                                                    a

                                                                                          it
hinges, that like begets like, that the very names of Father and Son,

therefore, imply perfect equality and likeness. On this cannot insist

too strongly. Arianism              hair's breadth of          nullifies ipso facto the

very meaning of the words Father and Son, and makes not few texts,

but the whole New Testament nonsense. But the second clause

puzzles me.           don't see why    true.  don't see what error guards

against; but am contented to believe that the magnificent meta

physician (whoever he was), who wrote that creed, did see, and knew

very well which devil he was fighting and, having faith in the per
I
manence of devils,I

                              a

                      aI
                                            I

                                                                                         ;

                                               I

                                                                                                   is

                                                                                            a if
                             have no doubt that that clause stands to fight

some past devil, to be revealed again hereafter, and one who may be

very probably present devil also, and buzzing about my ears now, just

because don't see what that clause means.              am always frightened

don't understand thing of this kind. Who knows but the Devil has

trap set just there for one, and his hands tight over one's eyes meanwhile?

   "As for dividing the substance, think that just what you must

do in Christ, ed ipsa qua Christ, but not in God. As the reasonable

soul and flesh are one man (there you have two substances), so

God and man are one Christ (two substances again, united
one person). In God you have three persons united in one sub
is

         I
                                                                                                                         in
stance.             can conceive dimly both these, but the whole matter

very obscure to us now, owing to the word substance being

328 Charles Kingsley.

originally identical with the Greek wrdorao-is. The Greek has no

word for person, but ' upostasis,' and I think it the very best, and should

be inclined to say that a man's personality was his substance, id quod slat
subter, and holds together and makes a one thing, all his properties and
accidents. But unfortunately the Athanasian Creed, in Latin and
English, is a translation into Latin Aristotelian language, i.e., Nominalist
language, of thought worked out in Greek Platonic realist language,
hence vitam-mis and substance, and have actually changed places, and
while the Greek says that there are three tm-oora<ms in God, the Latin
forbids us to divide his substance i.e., literally his vnoaman. Hence
endless confusion, -- as in all other theologic matters, -- to deliver us out

of which I can only look for a fire of God from heaven to burn up the
Ichaff, as great as fell in Luther's days, and pray Him that may not be

burned up with my own chaff, pen, ink, and paper, and vanish into
oblivion, Hela, and the spiritual dung-hill, where fools rot, in that great
day of the Lord, which is coming as a snare on the face of the whole
earth, whose judgments will begin, as usual, at the house of God, by
judging us parsons, and trying our work with fire. . . ."

                    TO , ESQ.*

" MY DEAR MR.                  ,  was,     EVERSLEY, WHIT TUESIUY, 1852.
          " Sad as                      it gave me much pleasure : it is
                    your letter
always a pleasure to see life springing out of death -- health returning

after disease, though, as doctors know, the recovery from asphyxia or

....drowning is always as painful as the temporary death itself was painless.
         Faith is born of doubt. ' It is not life but death where nothing
Istirs.'  take all these struggles of yours as simply so many signs that

your Father in heaven is treating you as a father, that He has not

forsaken you, is not offended with you, but is teaching you in the way best
suited to your own idiosyncrasy, the great lesson of lessons. ' Empty

thyself, and God will fill thee.' I am not a man of a mystical or
Iromantic turn of mind ; but do say and know, both from reason and

experience, that we must be taught, even though it be by being allowed

for a while to make beasts of ourselves, that we are of ourselves, and
in ourselves, nothing better than -- as you see in the savage -- a sort of

magnified beast of prey, all the more terrible for its wondrous facul

ties ; that neither intellect nor strength of will can save us from degra-

   * A young man of nineteen, to whom he was personally a stranger, but who
wrote to him laying bare his whole heart, having woke up from a course of sin and

  unbelief in black despair.

                                     Fir Grove.                                                329

dation ; that they may be just as powerful for evil as for good ; and that

what we want to make us true men, over and above that which we

bring into the world with us, is some sort of God-given instinct, motive,

and new principle of life in us, which shall make us not only see the

right, and the true, and the noble, but love        a         and give up our wills
                                                         it,
and hearts to  it,     and find in the confession of our own weakness                                    ?a

                      a
strength, in the subjection of our own will freedom, in the utter care

lessness about self self-respect, such as we have never known before.
   " Do not -- do not fancy that any confession of yours to me can lower

you in my eyes. My dear young man, went through the same devil's
                                                 I

sewer, with thousand times the teaching and advantages which you
          a

                      I,

                               a it
have had. Who am of all men, to throw stones at you? But take
Ifyour sorrows, not to me, but to your Father in heaven.
                                                                                               that name,

Father, mean anything,               must mean that He will not turn away from

His wandering child, in way in which you would be ashamed to turn
Ifaway from yours.
                         there be pity, lasting affection, patience in man,

they must have come from Him. They, above all things, must be His

likeness. Believe that He possesses them million times more fully
                                                    a

than   any human being.    at        least, the  state of mind in which you are.
      St. Paul knew well,
   "

He said that he had found panacea for it; and his words, to judge
                                     a

from the way in which they have taken root, and spread, and con

quered, must have some depth and life in them. Why not try them

Just read the first nine chapters of St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans,

and write me your heart about them. But never mind what any body,

Unitarian or Trinitarian,* may say they mean. Read them as you would
   Greek play -- taking for granted that they mean the simplest and
It a

   I
          I

                              I

                              I
                                                        I

                                                                                           it
most obvious sense which can be put upon them.                    need not say

   " Let me hear more -- long for another letter.

that     consider your confidence       an honour, and shall keep sacred.
      Do not consult *** ***.            love him well, but he has no evangel
   "

for you.  should be glad to see him in the state you are in now.

would be nearer health."

   In the summer of 1852 the Right Hon. Thomas Erskine, with  aa
his family, settled at Fir Grove, Eversley. For the next twelve
happy years he was friend and counsellor to the Rector, and to

the parish his influence and example was priceless blessing.
The Judge and his family relieved him of load of expense
and consequent anxiety in the matter of the parish charities,

          * His correspondent had been brought up Unitarian.  a

330 Charles Kingsley.

which had hitherto fallen almost exclusively on the Rector ;

regular district visiting began, and at Fir Grove, which was

henceforth like a second home to him and his wife, some of
the most charming friendships of that period of his life were
formed. It was a new era in Eversley, and with fresh help

and fresh hope he worked cheerfully, and had the heart once
more to turn his thoughts to poetry. The " Christian Socialist"
at this time came to an end, and Parson Lot spoke his " last

words " in its last number, concluding thus :--

" Let us say little and work the more. We shall be the more re

spected, and the more feared too for                       People will begin to believe
                     a
that we really know what we want, and really do intend to get and
                       if                                                                                  ;
really believe in its righteousness. And the spectacle of silent working                                           it,
                                   it. it.
faith  is  one at once so rare and so noble, that          tells more, even on                                       it
                                                '                                                                         is a
                                                                                                       In the mean
                                               it
opponents, than ten thousand platform pyrotechnics.

time will be no bad thing for us we are beaten sometimes. Success
       it
          is
at first dangerous, and defeat an excellent medicine for testing people's

honesty --for setting them earnestly to work to see what they want, and

what are the best methods of attaining                     Our sound thrashings as

nation in the first French war were the making of our armies and

good for an idea, as well as for man, to bear the yoke in his youth.'

The return match will come off, and many, who are now our foes, will

then be our friends and in the mean time,
              ';
                  The proper impulse has been given,
                     Wait little longer.'
                  a                                           " PARSON LOT."

is This was his last signature as Parson Lot. At the same time                                         II
                       a
he writes to the editor "If you want an Epicedium, send one.
                                                        :
It written in hurry, so you like, reject it: but have tried
                                  ifto get the maximum of terseness and melody.

                           " So die, thou child of stormy dawn,;
                                    Thou winter flower, forlorn of nurse
                                    Chilled early by the bigot's curse,

                                 The pedant's frown, the worldling's yawn.

                                 Fair death, to fall in teeming June,
                                         When every seed wheh drops to earth
                                        Takes root, and wins second birth

                                 From steaming shower and gleaming moon
                                                           a
                                                                                                    :

                       Hypatia and the Monks.                                   331

                       Fall warm, fall fast, thou mellow rain ;
                          Thou rain of God, make fat the land ;

                          That roots, which parch in burning sand,
                       May bud to flower and fruit again.

                       To grace, perchance, a fairer morn
                         In mighty lands beyond the sea,
                          While honour falls to such as we

                       From hearts of heroes yet unborn.

                       Who in the light of fuller day,
                          Of loving science, holier laws,

                          Bless us, faint heralds of their cause,
                       Dim beacons of their glorious way.

      ' Jtmc 9, 1852.  Failure ? while tide-floods rise, and boil
                          Round cape and isle, in port and cove,
                          Resistless, star-led from above :

                       What though our tiny wave recoil ?

                                                          " CHARLES KINGSLEY."

                       TO J. M. LUDLOW, Esq.

                                                            EVERSLEY RECTORY, June, 6, 1852.

" Too tired, confused, and happy to work, I sit down for a chat with

you.
I" 1. About the last number of ' Hypatia.'
                                                            dare say you are right.
I wanted, for artistic purposes, to keep those two chapters cool and

calm till just the very end of each; and it is very difficult to be quiet

without also being dull. But this, you know, is only after all rough
Icopy; and such running criticisms are of the very greatest help to me.

About the ' Saga :' sent it to Max Miiller, who did not like it at all. he

said ; because, though he highly approved of the form (and gave me a
good deal of learned advice in re), it was too rational and moral and

rounded, he said, and not irrational and vast, and dreamy, and hyper

Ibolic -- like a true saga. But told him, that as a parson to the English

I Ipublic, was expected to point a moral ; and so put Miiller's criti
cism and yours too into the mouth of Agilmund, who complains of its

res"peAcstabfloer  Benjamin Franklin   tone.  they  are     slow fellows --but  then
                   the monks : 'pon   honour
Ithey were so horribly slow in reality. And can't see but that Pambo's
Ipalaver in my tale is just what find in Rosweyde's ' Vitae Patrum,' and
Athanases' ' Life of Anthony.' Almost every expression of Pambo's is

a crib from some one, word for word. And his instances are historic

ones. Moreover, you must recollect, that Arsenius was no mere monk

332 Charles Kingsley.

....but a finished gentleman and court intriguer -- taken                 ill                     with superstition

                                                                            I
               As for the Sermons,* am very glad you like any of them. About
                                'I
what you don't like, will tell you honestly, think that have not said
                          ;                                 I

anything too strong. People must be cured of their horrible notions ofI
God's arbitrary power -- His satisfaction in taking vengeance -- His
                                                            '
inflicting permanent arbitrary curse as                           penalty-- His being the
/.                                                             a
    is
author of suffering or evil in any way.                     have been driven to by this.
                is a                                I                                             is it

It easy enough in the case of holy person to use the stock phrase of
                                    a

its having 'pleased God to afflict them,' because one sees that the

affliction of use but you can't and daren't say that God pleased,

    <?., satisfied, or rejoiced to afflict poor wretched heathens in St. Giles's,

to whom, as far as we can see, the affliction                  is  of no use, but the very

reverse. The school formula (not a Scripture one at all, mind) works
very well in the school, when at his desk or in the pulpit the good

pedant         bringing out his system to select audience of Christian
    If, iIf                                         in a                                          '
          is
friends,' and forgetting, he and they too, that outside the walls lies                                            a

whole world who, he confesses himself, have no more to do with his for

mula (at least till they find themselves hell at last) than sticks or stones.
But am to preach gospel, must have to do with the people out
                                a

                                  it
                                                it
side the tract-and-sermon-world, as well as inside                                                and then the
                                                                          it
formula, like most others, don't fit
    " however, found in Scripture, should believe                            ;
                      is I                          it I                                          what wantI
                                                               '               it
                                                              it                                  the Lord to
                                                                                       :

is--plain inductive proof from texts. The                         has pleased

bruise Him,'              just the very opposite. The pith and marrow of the

53rd    of     Isaiah being, that He of whom speaks                is is  afflicted, not for the
good    of     His own soul, but for others --that He                      ennobled by being

                      seems to me, that the only way to escape the dilemma
sacrificed.    to believe that God what He has revealed Himself to be --is It
                          if a
really  ? is,                   I' is
'A Father.' If child said,
                                       was naughty, and pleased my father
                                                                   it

to whip me for it,' should we not feel that the words were hollow and

absurd And F. died to-morrow, God forbid that should say of
                                                                          I

Ifmy Father in heaven, pleased Him to take her from me.                                                  the
                                it

                                          I

                                                        it
Lord Jesus the express image of His Father's glory, then His Father
cannot be like that. For could dare believe that would not pain
                                                                          it

                                                                             if
the Blessed Lord infinitely more than would pain me, He was com

pelled by my sins, or by any other necessity of His government of this

rebellious world, to inflict on me, not to mention on the poor little child

ren, that bitter agony In the face of such real thoughts, school terms
                                ?

                                                                                    in
                                                                                               a
vanish, and one has to rest on realities; on the belief                                           human-hearted,
loving, sorrowing Lord, and of A Father whose image He, in some inex-

                                * National Sermons, First Series.

                 Sorrow and its Lessons.                                         333

plicable way is  Ior one would go mad. And have always found,
in talking to my people in private, that all second-hand talk out of

books about the benefits of affliction, was rain against a window pane,

Iblinding the view -- but never entering. But can make a poor wretch

believe -- 'the Lord Jesus is just as sorry as you that you have compelled
Him for a while to deliver you over to Satan for the punishment of the
flesh, that your soul may be saved thereby.' Till you can make them

Ibelieve that God is not pleased, but rt&pleased to afflict them, never

found them any the better for their affliction. They take either a mere

hypocritically fatalist view of their sorrow, or else they are terrified and

despairing, and fancy themselves under a curse, and God angry with
Ifthem, and are ready to cry, ' Let us curse God and die !
                                                                                 God
Ibe against me, what matter who is for me ? ' And so with * * * *

have been trying hard to make him believe that his sorrows come from

himself and the devil, just because he has been believing that they came

from God. He has been believing and telling me that 'he is under a

curse : that God's wrath is permanently abiding on him for acts com

mitted at school years ago, which never can be undone, and that there
       -- ' If
for"e           God be against him,    what matter   who   is for  him?'     If  God                  be
        Now                            tell him, as        every   one -- '
                I have been trying to                I do
Ifor you, what matter who is against you !'
                                                     have been saying to him
what Anthony used to say, as Pambo quotes him to Arsenius. I have

been trying to make him understand that he is not in the devil's hands

one moment longer than he likes, because God is as much the enemy of

his sorrows as he is of his own, and that the moment he will allow God

to remove those sorrows, the Lord will rejoice in doing so                       Am

I to tellhim it pleased God that he should do such and such wrong,

Ior am to tell him, that 'it pleased the devil into whose power, not God

but you yourself put yourself years ago, deliberately separating your own

will from God, and determining to be a law unto yourself, and to do

exactly what was right in the sight of your own eyes ? But God abhors

Iyour misery; God yearns to lift you out of it.' If can make him feel
Ithat first, then, and then only, can go on to say, ' But He will not lift

you out of it till it has taught you the lesson which He intends you to

Ilearn; 'because then (instead of canting generalities, which, God forgive

me, too often use, and feel ready to vomit my own dirty soul out the
Inext minute)
                 can tell him what lesson God intends him to learn by
Iaffliction, namely, the very lesson which have been trying to teach
Ihim, --the very lesson which
                                       preached in the three sermons on the
cholera -- that God is the foe of all misery and affliction ; that He

yearns to raise us out of and to show us that in His presence the
                 it,
                                                                                                  is

fulness of life and joy, and that nothing but our own wilfulness and

334 Charles Kingsfey.

Iimperfection keep us in it for an instant.                            dare not say this of A. or
IB. leave them to impute sin to themselves, but I will impute to
Imyself, and not to God's will, the cause of every finger ache have,
Ibecause I know that I never had a sorrow which did not cause myself,
or make necessary for myself by some sin of my own ; and I will stand

by the service of the ' Visitation of the Sick,' which represents the man's

sins as the reason of the sickness, and his recovery as God's will and

desire. ' He doth not afflict willingly or grieve the children of men,'

Iis a plain Scripture, and will not explain it away to suit any theory

whatsoever about the origin of evil ; but believe that the first chapter of

Job, and the two accounts of David's numbering the people, tell us all

we can know about                       Thus, so far from allowing that what say of
I                                                                      I

            is                                                                    it
                  a                                                                    is
                              is it.
                                        it                                         I

                                                                    ;                              is

                                     I is I
God's absolute love of our happiness and hatred of our misery the

half-truth, which must be limited by anything else, say                                  the whole

truth, the root truth, which must limit all theories about the benefit of

suffering, or any other theories, and must be preached absolutely,

nakedly, unreservedly first, as the Lord Jesus preached                   it,  instead of

any such theories or schemes (however true) to be of any real benefit

to men.                                 incoherent but don't pretend to have solved

   " know all this
Ifthis or any other problem.
                                        you prove to me seven large self-contra
dictions in my own harangue won't matter. All you will do, will be to

drive me to Socratic dialogue, which the only way can argue.
                                                                       I

" This      the end of my say, which                                   could not finish the other

night."

                                        TO THE SAME.

                                                                       EVERSLEY, jfime, 1852.

" Instead of ignorant discourse about                                  Hroswithe (which  opine
            horse-collar -- to grin through                            I
signifieth                                                             will you be so good as to
a                                            is, !)                    If you do you will'
                   a
                                               iIf                            I
                                     '                         ?
get Rosweyde's Vitae Patrum,' and read them                            recollect right-- some
thing or two diskiver. He was-- that

old Benedictine of the 16th or 17th century; I'm sure forget
The Folio containeth original lines of the great Syrian and Egyptian

hermits and Ccenobrarchs. Athanases' Life of Anthony and Innis-'

takenot     there in full. They are, when not originals, compilations
            a is
from the earliest sources, with notes, and;                            think scholia. You have
                                        is

                                            ;I

                                                                        if
Paul Anthony, Salas Macarius, Nilus, &c. and that Nilus, you want

to know great deal about the time, an invaluable fellow. He lived

about 450, in the Sinai mountains.      His letters were published by

Leo Allatius, 1688 his 'tractates,' by Suarez, 1623; and there are

^cdotes of him without end. But almost the most interesting part

              Monks' Silence and Monks' Speech.                        335

of Rosweyde are two, I think, lengthy sets of anecdotes of hermits --

he and she --and of the great Laura, which are like nothing you ever

read in your life, and bear the stamp of authenticity on their foreheads.

IThey reach through, think, the 5th and 6th centuries, and give one an

insight into the hearts and ways of the old folks, which one gets no

where else. They seem to be traditions of great people handed down

Iin each Laura. But he will give you his authorities.

  " think, after ten years of grubbing in Monk- Latin, I rather do

know the fulsome, bombastic touch of the later monk, who saith unto

himself, ' Go to, let us paint an ideal.' From its first dawn in Simeon

Metaphrastes and the Pseudo-Acts of Gregory Thaumaturgus, down to
its full evil sunshine in Alban Butler. You must know it too. Read
those anecdotes, and see if it is there. To me they are the Homer of

Monasticism.
I " I like your estimate of Jerome. He was the Bentley of his age. And

   think your theory about those tremendous monks being required to
Iconquer the Teutons as true as possible.
                                           recollect the passage in the
letter to Eustochium well enough. But I think if you will look at Basil's
....exquisite sketch of his early Laura life up in--where was it?-- On the
Iris, near Neo-Cassarea,  you will find the soft, graceful, genial,
Iconversational side of the monk life, which
Iferred. [And [I'll tell you why.             for my own purposes pre

                                   could not bring in Jerome and
the fierce side, because I have already the worst and most brutal fruits
Iof it in those Nitrian monks ; and in justice to Christianity, had to
I Ikeep things calm and soft as much as could. And therefore in
troduce, a little way on, not so ugly a picture as Jerome, whom if I
Idrew must have given offence ; but beloved Augustine, with all his

calm grace and large-heartedness, an d polished subtlety and learning,

he is the redeeming point on the south of the Mediterranean.
   " As for the Egyptian monks' silence, you are perfectly right. But

Ithey did talk -- when allowed -- which is just what show in the first

chapter of them. Arsenius is a privileged person. The other monks
are kept where they were-- dumb lay-figures -- praying machines. You

Iobserve don't make them talk.
  I I" But, honestly, am not satisfied with that chapter ; will tell you

why. Arsenius has a right to talk as he does. But Pambo's manner

is wrong ; it wants the very element which most proves to me the
authenticity of Rosweyde's anecdotes, because it is like nothing you
find elsewhere in monk-writings -- the rugged, curt, mysterious, epigram

matic, half-snappish, half-arch way of putting everything ; or rather

              and then relapsing into silent thought, which was, fancy,
suggesting  it,

                                                          I
                                                                    I
strained to an affectation among the Egyptians. So will re-write the

336 Charles Kingsley.

chapter.      Now can a poor son of Adam, with a parish and three

children, and as        lazy a soul as                                          man ever     was plagued with, say more ?
                        the Homer.*                                                          because it is Homer literal ;
   " Concerning                                                                 It is flat,

taken out of its sounding language, and falling dead on our more pam

I Ipered fancies. Besides, chose a flat bit on purpose. But when read

it to F. she was quite delighted with                                           it,
                                                                                                    it

                                                                                                       is I
                                                                                and said was the first thing

which had ever made her really feel what the real beauty and noble

ness of Homer was                                                                                                agree with
   " As for the theological argument, it's always the same.

every word you say, and yet you won't agree with me. Why can't you

hold your view and mine too Aren't they identical (except about the
                                       ?

idea of God's almighty power being the first of which man conscious).
His love practically as ought to be doctrinally, the first in a child's
          if is,            it

mind, and you don't make               it                                       so, you'll find yourself with the child

in much the same fix as Robinson Crusoe, when he began by telling
Friday that God was almighty Why God not kill debbil, then which
                                       :                                                                        I ?'

                                         '

is  the root of all Spinozism, Neo-Platonism, and all the rest, starting

from an intellectual, not from         ;a                                       moral idea concerning God.          wonder
                                                                                so don't you answer me, mind
   " But won't argue any more
        aI I                                                                                                  !

what makes me so chatty this morning -- mere idleness, do believe
                                                                                                    I II               ;

never mind.             can't settle again for few days, and can't work
                  II                                                            a
hard, because can't play hard, on account of this mighty rain and
                                                                                      I, ;                          ;

unless        get frantic exercise of body, my mind won't work.                                                  I  should

like to have      a     Nicor' to slay every afternoon wouldn't write eight
                     '

hours day then As           it         my only nicor to-day has been a rabbit
                        !
                                  is,

about as long as this sheet of paper, which                                                         my man, and my dog

valiantly captured half-an-hour ago in the middle of the flower-beds                                                   !

But slew him not awe kept our souls from that,' as Andromache
'

                      'a
                                      ;

                                                                             a
remarks in certain novel.

                  Therefore we took him by his silver ears,
                  And made for him hutch with iron hoops,

                  And put him in the tool-house and around
                  The children of the baby-nursing dame

                  The imps who haunt the garden, danced and yelled.'
                                                                                a;
                                                                                                 ?
    " What do you think of that for parody                                                          F. remains   very, very

well, and so does the infant."

   " Thanks                     TO THE SAME.                                                         book, which
                            critique of *                                                           me what have
read great                  You have just said for
    a                                                                                                                  have
                                                              *                                                        been

                                                            *
                                                                      *

                                                                                    's

                                                              I
                                                                I
                  for your
                  deal of.

                            * Hypatia, chap. viii.

                    A Dead Christ.                                        337

trying lately in vain to get into words. Thank God that there is one

more man in the world who has found out the great new metaphysico-

theologic law, that if a man sees me, he sees me, whether he happens
to know my name or not ! ! ! How has the 'religious world ' fallen
into the notion that no one believes in Christ, who does not call Him

by the same appellation as themselves ? i. From the dogma-olatry of

the last two centuries (Popish and Protestant), Christ has not seemed

to them a living Man, or God either, but a black formula on white

paper.

   " 2. Because, as old Fox and Naylor told them all, they have been
believing in a dead Christ, not in the live one of the ' Revelations '-- a
historic Christ, absent since a.d. 33. And it seems to me as if The
Blessed One was just saying no to that saying (I speak with reverence,
but surely He wishes us to search out His dealings with man). ' The
knowledge of Me as a present King and friend is far more important

to you than knowledge of the facts of my life eighteen hundred years

ago, because that last is only the cause, the root ; the former is the
I Ieffect, the fruit. I was born, crucified, rose, that
                                                                       might be what

am.' Then, Christ seems (I speak humbly) to be now-a-days trying the
Church as He did the disciples on the road to Emmaus, appearing in
disguise and anonymous. Cannot He do what he likes ? Is He bound

by the Thirty-nine Articles, or Robinson's ' Christian System ? ' Then

those who do not know Him, but only facts about Him, will prove their

ignorance by denying His presence ; those who have Him in their

*****hearts, who personally know and love Him, will know Him without a
label ; whether in  *'s heart, or in any other verbal heresiarch's.
So far I seem to see. But there is more belonging to this --in my eyes

the great theological revelation of the day, first started to me by

Maurice in Peterborough Cathedral, which I want to talk over with

you."

                                  TO THE SAME.                         June, 1852.

" As Browning says :

                                         ' Come in any shape,
                                       As a victor crowned with vine,
                                       Or a beaten slave,
                                            Only come,

                             'Tis thy coming which I crave. '

" In three weeks' time, or a month at furthest, we shall be delighted to

see thee. My beloved roses will be just in glory, the fish will be just in

season ; thanks to the late spring. My old hunter will be up from grass,

VOL. i.                                                                z

    338 Charles Kingsley,

    and proud to carry you and me -- per gig -- to see the best of men, John
    Paine, saint and hop-grower, of Farnham, Surrey. Also we will talk of all

            ?

               I

                                         a
                                                                a
                                                                is,

                                                   I
                                                      I

                                                                                               it
    matters in heaven and earth. That unless am so deeply unthankful,

    as indeed am, for all my blessings that the Giver finds necessary,

    ....against His will, to send some bitter among my paradise of sweets
    But What has become of huge packet sent to you through

    Louis It contained burlesque novel in G. W. Reynolds's style, which
       had highly finished, and would not lose not for no money. It must
aI
    ....and shall be found
       " Oh ah eh
                               therefore disgorge
                                              have laid
                            !;            I                                poem and    won't hatch
            !                                                              '                                                                    ! ' !I
                     '        I                 '                               (a

                         !                    I                                      it
                                                                        !
                                                                      a                                        !
    ....Oh for Mr. Cantelo* and his ecc-ecc-ecc cackle callobion . . . .
    Perseus and Andromeda                     have written a lot in blank verse, and

      lot in the metre of Hood's Hero and Leander                                    noble poem, and

    so little known), and can't please myself. Rhymed metres run away

    with you, and you can't get the severe, curt, simple objectivity you want

    in them, and unrhymed blank verse very bold in my hands, becauseis
    won't write poetic diction,' but only plain English -- and so can't get
                                                                                       'I
    mythic grandeur enough. Oh for the spirit of Tennyson's CEnone

    "...Write, pWityh, aatnydouadsavyise*.** writes to friend about my ergon being poetry
                                              it ' a                       a           I'
                                                                                '
                                                 :I
I is  ....quite true.       could not write Uncle Tom's Cabin,' and can write
                       I
                         I                               do feel different being when

                                  is
    poetry                  there no denying
    get into metre -- feel like an otter in the water, instead of an otter

ashore. He can run fast enough ashore, and keep the hounds at tearing
                                                                                                   a

gallop, as my legs found this spring in Snowdonia, but when he takes

water, then indeed he becomes beautiful, full of divine grace and freedom,

and exuberance of power. Go and look at him in the Zoological Gar

dens, and you'll see what mean. When have done Hypatia will
                            it, I I               II                       a           I
                                                                                 '        I'
write no more novels.                 will write poetry -- not as profession -- but
                                                                                               I
will keep myself for and do think shall do something that will
                                          I

live.  I    feel my strong faculty that sense of form, which, till took tois

poetry, always came out drawing, drawing, but poetry the true sphere,in
                                                                                   is

combining painting and music and history all in one."

                                          TO THE SAME.

                                                                                      May 1852.

                                                             You will see at once the
                                                         and the latter part -- right or
      I

            it

                              I

                                                                    it

                                                                                                                                            2,
   " send you more Andromeda
difference in style between this opening

wrong, was instinctive.                   felt myself on old mythic, idolatrous ground,

and went slowly and artificially, feeling unreal, and wishing to make

            * Then hatching chickens by artificial heat at the Egyptian Hall.

                                   The Andromeda Myth.                                                                339

Ireaders feel it such. Then when get into real human Greek life, I can

burst out and rollick along in the joy of existence. Do you see what

I mean ? And if you do, is it too wire-drawn (not for the critics to

see, for one expects nothing of them) but for the many to feel, they

can't tell why, as they read it ? It is those unconscious, or rather

subter-conscious effects which are so vital. ' The wind bloweth where
it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, and canst not tell '-- you
understand me-- the spirit of a thing which simple folk appreciate often

in proportion to their ignorance of word analysis
         " You know that Andromeda myth is a very deep one. It happened
Iat Joppa, and she must have been a Canaanite ; and
                                                                                     cannot help

fancying that it is some remnant of old human sacrifices to the dark

Ipowers of nature, which died out throughout Greece before the higher,

sunnier faith in human gods ; and that shall just bring out, or bring in,

enough to make it felt without hurting the classicality, by contrasting

her tone about the gods with that of Perseus, whom she is ready to

worship as a being of a higher race, with his golden hair and blue eyes.

IOh, my dear man, the beauty of that whole myth is unfathomable ;
                                                                                     If have
love and revel in more and more the longer look atit,                                it.
                                   it                                         II
                                                                                          I
                                      it
                                                                                                     is,
made one drawing of Perseus and Andromeda have made fifty, and
Ifburnt them all in disgust.
                                              conceive thought (objective, that                                       of
                                          'I     a

                                                   it
course), almost always begin by drawing again and again, and then
               it I
the incompleteness of the pencil (for paint can't) drives me to wordsI
to give colour and chiaroscuro
                                              '
   " was reading Tennyson's CEnone through last night, and thought
         'I I
it I it  more wonderful and glorious than ever. But when you come to me

         have poem (Santa Maura) to show you.                                 can hardly bear to read
               a                                    I
                  ;                                     II
  m" yseslfendbut       a           the deepest and clearest thing                have yet done.
Homeric. It               is it scrap more rough copy, which                      think more purely

                              is Perseus rushing on the Ore--

             As when an osprey, aloft, dark eyebrowed, royally crested            .

             »·
                                *         *                                   a

                                                                                *

                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                          *
                                                                                                                   ;
             Halting, he wheels round slowly, in doubt at the weight of his quarry

             Whether to clutch alive, or fall on the wretch like plummet,
             Stunning with terrible heel the life of the brain in the hind head.'

Mind the terrible heel.' That                 right, a hawk strikes with his heel,
is                                            is

                     '                              A

                                                                           ;
and after grips with his whole foot.          fish or duck killed by hawk
                                                                                     a

   always scored up the neck and hind head sometimes ripped up right

along the back. If you'll consider; striking his prey at immense speed

from behind, he couldn't drive his front claws in.

                                                                                     Z
                                                                                         2

340 Charles Kingsley.

   " The dark eyebrowed is Homer's ' melanophrus,' and is the thing

Iwhich struck me as most magnificent in a large osprey which came

upo"nFoternthyeardsasmfreomreamsoen,indtohuebtIssnthoat,l. ' the wind rattling in his pinions.'
A falcon does not, as the herd think, rush silently down head foremost,

Ibut drives himself noisily down heels foremost by a succession of pre

ternatural flaps, the philosophy of which could never make out. A

gull does the same, though he strikes with his beak when he wants to

force himself under water ; anything on top he takes as an owl does, by

sliding down, or not quite, for an owl's silent fall is more mysterious
still. He catches with his beak, and then takes the mouse out of his

mouth with his hand, like a Christian. But there's enough natural his
                                                       '
"... Itory for the nonce.  There's a hawk  ' stooping            enclosed).
                                                        (sketch
                send you more Andromeda. F. says the first ten or twelve
lines of Andromeda's speech are inferior and weak, and I don't doubt
she is right. Will you see what they want ? I have written them over
Ithree times, and can't suit myself. Now, mind ; want to keep them
low for--
" i. A young girl who has been standing naked in the spray all night,

poor little thing, can't spout ; only when she begins to suspect that this
sun god and his vengeance are nothing, she rises into the strength of a

new idea.

   " 2. She is a barbarian, and has no notion (besides fetichism) beyond
pleasure and pain, as of an animal. It is not till the thinking, sen

tentious Greek, with his awful beauty, inspires her, that she develops

into woman.

  I" must keep down parts of the poem to give variety ; and it is often

far better to keep down (quoad imagery) the parts which stand out

themselves (or ought to) by pathos, especially in objective classic poetry,
when, as in Brownlow North's ' Skaters,' action is everything, and the

scenery itself is grand and awful enough to raise the general tone.

IMoreover, don't you think the classical poets (Greeks, mean -- hang
ILatin Cockney-flunkeys) did keep down their speeches in that way, and

lay on their strength in the objective parts ? speak of Homer, Hesiod,

and the Bucolists. Surely Theocritus does. And weren't they right ?
for if you make your speeches the ergon of the poem, it becomes dra

ma"ticN, onwot   narrative, and  you overstep the form you   have chosen.    word                ;
                                  know that all this is not  bosh, every
                mind, I don't

and of course, it excuses no weakness or niaiserie, or any other defect.
                Icarefully, for will, please God,
Just tell me    till I have made it something          keep and work    over this
Andromeda                                              that will live.
                                                                         I don't
Ifagree with you about not polishing too much.
                                                                 you are a verse-

                        Trochees and Spondees.                                                    341

maker, you will, of course, rub off the edges and the silvering; but if

you are a poet, and have an idea and one key-note running through

the whole, which you can't for the life define to yourself, but which is

there out of the abysses, defining you ; then every polishing is a bring

ing the thing nearer to that idea, and there is no more reason in not

polishing, than there is for walking about with a hole or a spot on your
If Itrousers, a thing which drives me mad.
                                               have a spot on my clothes,
I am conscious of nothing else the whole day long, and just as conscious
....of it in the heart of Bramshill Common, as if I were going down Picca
dilly.            Dear man, did you ever ride a lame horse, and wish that

the earth would open, and swallow you, though there wasn't a soul

within miles? Or did you ever sit and look at a handsome or well-

made man, and thank God from your heart for having allowed you

such a privilege and lesson ? Oh, there was a butcher's nephew playing

cricket in Bramshill last week, whom I would have walked ten miles to

....see, in spite of the hideous English dress. One looked forward with
del"igIht   to what he  would be 'in the       resurrection.'
           think your                          Andromeda                         ought  to feel,  perfect.
INot that               hint about what

                  yield to your trocheism one atom.                                     My ear always

demands the equivalent of the ' lost short syllable.' In that line, for
instance, which you quote from Longfellow, I don't like
                                                                                                  because
                                                                                        it,

                                                                                                I
the trochees weaken and that in spite of the great help which they
                  'a
                          it,

                                   a

                                            ;
get from having comma, or short syllable rest after each of them.
                                               it

                                                                 ''
                                                                              '
am quite willing to allow comma, or other stop, to lengthen a doubt
ful or common syllable for instance -- and, breaking away, he re

treated,' but not an absolutely short one. To my ear, that verse de
it

               '
manded to be longer, and repeating again and again, that exactly what

   wanted was fourth trochee, e.g., four slowlys instead of three, thus
                  a
                              is
                                          aa
supplying just the three short syllables lost by putting three trochees for

three spondees. This was great corroboration to me of my faith, that

real classic prosody and ear, when the ear     sufficiently practised, coin
cide. But that verse not hexameter.                     pretty loose form of
                                               It is

                                                      is
                                                           a

trochaic verse. Base three trochees, and then two verses combined by

an anaeresis at the beginning--

                  Slowly, slowly, slowly, and slowly, slowly, slowly, slowly,

and so forth, but has nothing to do with hexameters, the base of which,
  believe with Malden, was three dactyl verses,--
I

342 Charles Kingsley.

unless, indeed, it was identical at first with the'primeval Gothic double
dactyl of the Edda. Then the last syllables cut off, and the two con
nected by an anaeresis --

That the last foot was once a dactyl the allowing a spondee shows, and

that the feminine caesura --as in this example, and not the male, was

Ithe original one, believe with Maiden, and have, as you may see,
Iadopted it wherever can, as a matter of ear. One great secret of the

run of Greek hexameters, is the predominance of the female caesura.

The male should be used next oftenest, to give strength and smartness ;

but never where softness or roll is required

  I" want to aim at the clearest and sharpest objectivity, and even in

the speeches of Perseus and Andromeda, the subjective element must
Icome out in sententiousness, not in sentiment.
                                                                      shall read up the
CEdipus Colonus, and the Antigone, before I do them, to catch the
sententiosity. But I never had dreamed of daring to write hexameters.
I Ishould write them merely by ear, as firmly believe Homer wrote his,
and make a word scan two different ways, as he does, whenever I chose,

minding always to make accent and metre coincide. As for hexameters

being foreign to our language, if you will mind the caesura, and split

your sense at that as often as convenient, you can talk prose in

hexameters just as easily as in blank verse. Look                     Coleridge's
                                                                      (it
                                                                          is, is

                                                                                                   is
hint) at the great quantity of the Bible and Prayer-book which
actually unconscious hexameter already. The difficulty
                                                                      that while

ours            highly dactylic language,      not highly spondaic one,
      is                                   it
                                                                      Now, here send
        Ia                                    F is
because we have hardly any real diphthongs                            it
                                                     it
                                                           is a                I

                                                                                             is
                                                                                                 a
you what have rattled off in the last two hours, in the act of dressing
                                                                      It
and breakfasting. Show no mercy.                               likes
                is it
fragment of the vision of the Nereids which pass before Andromeda as

she on the rock. She has been told that                          to appease their wrath
   is
            is
that she sacrificed, and much astonished to see them go their own

way without seeing her, perfectly self-happy.

'  Onward they came in their joy, and around them the lamps of the sea-nymphs.

   Myriad fiery globes, swam panting and heaving, and rainbows
   Crimson and azure and emerald, were broken in star showers, lighting
   Far through the wine-dark depths of the crystal the gardens of Nereus,
   Coral and sea-fan and tangle, the blooms and the palm of the ocean,
   Onward they came in their joy, more white than the foam which they scattered,

   Laughing and singing, and tossing and twining, while eager, the Tritons

                          Latin and Greek Rules.                                                                            343

Blinded with kisses their eyes, unreproved, and above them in worship

Hovered the tern, and the sea-gull swept past them on silvery pinions,

Echoing softly their laughter ; around them the wantoning dolphins

Sighed as they plunged, full of love ; and the great sea-horses which bore them

Curved up their crests in their pride to the delicate arms of the maidens,

Pawing the spray into gems, till a fiery rainfall, unharming,

Sparkled and gleamed on the limbs of the nymphs, and the coils of the mermen.

Onward they went in their joy, bathed round with the fiery coolness,

Needing nor sun nor moon, self-lighted, immortal ; but others,

Pitiful, floated in silence apart ; in their bosoms   the sea-boys,                                               "
Slain by the wrath of the seas, swept down by
                                                     the anger of Nereus                                         ;

" We have many syllables in English which are neither long nor short,

but between the two, varying with position ; and it requires great nicety
of ear to know when they approach most to long or short, for instance --

' sighed at each plunge,' the ch + pi making each all but long.                                                             in Eng
   " Sighed at each roll (the r being always a double consonant                                                             ' Sighed

lish, or ought to be), not quite so long, but still a bad dactyl.

at each fall,' each being honestly short before f.

  "Again, I don't think the Greek and Latin rule of a vowel being

sometimes long before a mute and liquid will do in English ; be

cau"se'   we pronounce    evidently more     delicately than they.                                                      In Irish it
                           always will be    an anapaest in English.
         Took a breath,'

will be, ' took a be-reath,' introducing a second short syllable.

"And this explains the Latin and Greek rule. They called cauda

bruti, cauda be-ruti, and so seemed to make the (a) in cauda long, when
to the ear it was really the second syllable of a dactyl, and they didn't
often do it-- and we should never.

  I" Moreover, I think a syllable ending in two consonants can't be short

before one beginning with two. Though hardly complain of your
' shop front, the,' because nt has a liquid in and what the Latins
                                                     is                                             is is
hadn't, and we have, diphthong-consonant, and th the same.it,
   " Every argument you bring convinces me more and more that the
                          a
theory of our prosody depending on accent                                                           false, and that really  is
                                          :                                                                             it

very nearly identical with the Greek.        I  don't agree with you about a's,

and i's, and e's, and u's being made long by accent merely. You may

ma"""keMKNioatnhwugersmilcfeoeyrs,,oy,otrbuourctheeyxeoadumiotptfwolecosonu'tr--swe.rite melodious  verses so,I  fear.

" Mansfield, last syllable common, depending on initial of next word

(tw"o   liquids) .     full.
       Louis, trochee

344 Charles Kingsley.

    " Ludlow, spondee.
    " Penrose, spondee.

    " And to prove the majority pronounce
           it,
                       it,

                                   it

                                          I
                                                                     it
                                                                         it
                                                                     I
                                                                              so;                                      happens as gene

rally hear having heard ever since was three years old, to be one
of the very few perfect un-compound spondees in English. The East-

country folks make what you call an accentual trochee.' Pe'nrose
                      it                            '

the Cornish (where    it               native Celtic name, composed of Pen herd)
                                  a                                                                                    '
                           is
                                                                                                                              I

                                                                                                                                  I (a
                                                                                                                                       iIf
and Rose) an 'accentual iamb.,' or rather spondee, Penr-rdse.' You

should hear Cornishman give out.a               it
   " have been reading Whewell's dialogues on hexameters in Fraser,
    I

which support your theory, and are on the whole excellent. But don't

quite agree yet.      am glad to hear (being lazy man) that have,
                      I
                               I

                                                                     :

                                                 I
                                                                         a
choose, more license than wish for but do think that, with proper care,

you may have as many spondees, without hurting the rhythm, in English,

as  "you   have   in  Greek,      and  my ear tortured                        by a trochee instead.
          send   you      little  bit  of induction anent                      spondees -- real, not
        I                                                                                                                              ...

                             a                                                                                                         your
                                                                     is

                                                                           a
dirty weak trochees. Folks say there are great lack of them in Eng

lish, and truly. But in fifty lines of (excluding the terminal trochee
spondee) -- i. Homer are 48 spondees; 2. Lucretius, 87
                                                                                                                          Virgil, 116;
        I

                   it

                                                    ;

                                       aI I

                                                                     in

                                                                                               ;
                                                                                          5.
                                                                                                         is ;

                                                                  I 3.
                                                                                                                                       ;
4. Ovid's Metamorphoses, about the same                                            My Andromeda, 32

6. "HTehrmereafnonre,andtakDinogroHthoema,er66a.s the ideal, our English                                                  not so far off,

in spite of its want of spondees.                    took Goethe from that exquisite
opening of the third canto but                      must say that either can't read

German, or goes horribly like cat walnut shells quoad rhythm.

Virgil took from that blasphemous doggrel, yclept the opening of the

Georgics, and between such bits as

                                       Curs' atqu' aud and
                 Ingredere et votis jam nunc assuesce vocari
                 '
                                               '
                                                                                    '

                                                                                                                   ;'

(the last four syllables of which only are not torturing), and so forth.
My teeth haven't many) were pretty near broken by the time had
           (I                                                                                                                      it
....read through'fifty lines. Ovid always makes me inclined to vomit, so I'll
                ;                                   but always noble and Homer --                                                    aI
pass him by Lucretius                  is                                          is
                                            is                                            ;
greater and greater every day, in soul and in sound. But                                                                               seems

that in proportion to the badness of the poet                                                                          the quantity of his

spo"ndemesu.st try for Homer's average of           a  spondee                                                         a  line. But    great
        I

deal -- few know how much, to be done by choosing sonorous words,
with big vowels and lots of liquids. Whewell and his school make base
noises in their hexameters, and then wonder why people don't like them
                                                                                                                                         ;

besides they begin verses with And                                            enclose my last.
                                       '

                                                       '
                                                          !
                                                             !
                                                                !

                                                     I

            Translations.                                                                               345

      ' I and my gardener George, and my little whelp Maurice and Dandy,

      Went out this afternoon fishing ; a better night nobody could wish,

      Wind blowing fresh from the west, and a jolly long roll on the water,
      After a burning day and the last batch of May-flies just rising --
      Well, I fished two or three shallows and never a fish would look at me.
                                                                 "susctcuedsds,linIg
      Then I fished two or three pools, and      with no   more                       assure  you.   ;
      ' I'll tell you what, G.,' said I, ' some  rascal's  been                        " the  water

      Look at the tail of that weed there, all turned up and tangled-- Tim Goddard's
      Been up the stream before us, or else Bonny Over, and sold us ! '
      ' Well, sir,' says he, ' I'll be sworn, some cbaps' gone up here with a shove-net
                                                                                                        !

      Pack up our traps and go home, is the word ! ' and by jingo we did it.

      As I sit here, word for word, that was mine and G.'s conversation."

                                      TO THE SAME.

                                                                                                       June, 1852.

   " Your translation of the ' Drei Burschen ' is far better than one

II tried, or two or three have seen. Not having the German original
Iat hand, cannot tell whether your theory is correct, but it quite agrees

with the ought-to-be's, and assonances of that kind are an absolutely

Inecessary part of ballad-poetry. Yet object to your ' swart,' the word

has a peculiar meaning with us, which we must not break ; and also to

I ....' one hostess.' ' One ' is German and not English ; I would prefer the

old ' a certain,' even if could get nothing better.
   " But we must not lose the ' to-day.' It strikes me as the point of the

ballad. But that couplet is untranslateable --

                     " Dich lieb' ich immer, dich lieb' ich noch heut
                              Und werde dich lieben in Ewigkeit."

You cannot English ' immer,' which is generic, and includes the heut
and the ewige zeit. And you cannot get the roll of it-- firm at first, and

trembling in tears for the last five or six syllables. I gave it up five

years ago as impossible.

      " ' St. Maura ' was written six months ago, and was simply the con
centrated outcome of all my martyrology reading. I felt always I should
....have a thing to say about them, though I read them simply for pleasure
           Some one said it was too long and spun out. Do you think so ?
      ...I don't feel I can lose a line of          grew of itself an organic whole,

      and daren't cut and hack
I       it  it
    II            it.

                    ." It

         " wish you would show this Prologue to Maurice.                              It
      thing-- though not very smooth -- as have said yet, and
                                                                                        I is
         say.                                                                                                     a
                                                 I                                             as deep
                                                                                              mean what

346 Charles Kingsley.

' Linger no more, my beloved, by abbey and cell and cathedral ;
 Mourn not for holy ones mourning of old them who knew not the Father,

 Weeping with fast and scourge, when the bridegroom was taken from them.

 Drop back awhile through the years, to the warm rich youth of the nations,
 Childlike in virtue and faith, though childlike in passion and pleasure,
Childlike still, and still near to their God, while the day-spring of Eden
 Lingered in rose-red rays on the peaks of Ionian mountains.

IDown to the mothers, as Faust went, go, to the roots of our manhood.

Mothers of us in our cradles ; of us once more in our glory.
Newborn, body and soul, in the great pure world which shall be
In the renewing of all things, when man shall return to his Eden
Conquering evil, and death, and shame, and the slander of conscience
Free in the sunshine of Godhead, and fearlessly smile on his Father.

Down to the mothers I go -- yet with thee still !-- be with me, thou purest !

Lead me, thy hand in my hand ; and the dayspring of God go before us.'

I" Now, good-bye. I have a funeral ; and then I must go and catch
some pike-bait.              had my usual luck yesterday evening -- killed a little

fish and lost a huge one. . . . Ask Hughes, from me, whether he had
heard of that abject * * * killing the great pike, thirty pounds weight, --
and ask him if it don't give him strange thoughts about Providence ?
ISeriously,
                  feel about  it,I  that God The Giver; and that to such
                                                        is

poor half-brutes as * * * from whom you can expect nothing better, as

Hughes knows, God gives those enjoyments which they are capable of
thanking Him for --that even so He may lift their hearts to Him, while

to such as us He denies them, because we have been given other and

higher things.               have not had decent day's fishing for four years.
                  I                               ' Ia
                     I                                  was allowed extraordinary success
My luck has been absurdly bad.

for three years, till was acknowledged the best fisherman in the neigh
                                                                     All that stirs up
bourhood, and since then can catch nothing

thoughts in superstitious folk like us, who are fools enough to believe

in special providence         !     Oh dear when will this braying come to
a                               '                       !

    '                                                    is
          ?

              I
an end                                                        :

   " P.S. --What have said of ballads this that they must be objec
tive, dealing with facts and not feelings -- or with feelings as manifested

in actions. The union of the objective ballad or epic (for they only

differ in size) with the subjective ode, elegiac and satire, makes the
                                                              ballads, and fails of course.
dra"mYao. urThbeespt resspeenctimageenswriateres  subjective
                                                    Johnnie   of Breadislee              'Sir Patric
Spens Lady Maistry, perfectly awful --                               ;' ;
;'                                                                               ;
                          '  She carried the peats in her apron lap
                                To burn herself withal.'                              '

One or two out of the Danish ballads lately published Tennyson's Sir                     '

Galahad  ;'       Wee Croodledoo    ;             Auld Robin Gray Lord Willoughby
               '                      '
                                         '

                                 On Hexameters.                                                    347

in Percy's ' Reliques ; ' ' Hosier's Ghost ; ' ' When in Porto-bello
Lying,' a noble speech ; ' Would                                            '
                                            you hear  a Spanish     Lady  ?                        Camp

bell's  ' Hohenlinden       '  Uhland's  ' Drei Burschen ; ' Goethe's     ' Beggar-
                          ;

man and Erl-King.' But the Germans have hundreds."

   The following letter on Hexameters, though written many
years later, comes in appropriately here.

   " The English language has a prosody of ' longs, shorts, and doubtfuls,'
analogous to that of the Greek and Latin, but differing chiefly in this --

that our method of pronunciation enables us to keep a vowel short before

two, three, or even four consonants, provided a liquid be among them,

which vowel would have been made long in the more articulately pro

nounced Greek.

   " 2. That the true melody and euphony of English verse, such as is

accepted by the ear of the ignorant public, depends on the degree to

which this prosody is unconsciously followed.

"3. That therefore English metre is not (as commonly said) regulated

by accent.                                                 In Greek, accent

   " 4. That the word ' accent ' is a misnomer.

means the raising of the voice, or musical note, on a syllable. This

habit may be heard still in Scotch, in Devonshire, in (I believe) Norse,

and in many foreign tongues which seem to us ' sing-song,' but not at all
in cultivated English. What is mis-called ' accent ' in English is ' arsis,'

as   opposed to    thesis (mis-called    accent  syblylabmleussi--c-wirrrietesrpse)ct;iveviz.o, f  the lay
ing               i.e. loudness, on    certain                                                      change
     of stress--

of musical note. Often the syllable in arsis is pronounced on the stage

in a deeper note, to give effect.
"
             The  origin  of prosody   was  in arsis  and  thesis.     Iambic verses
   5.

carried the arsis on the second syllable. Trochaic and dactylic ( = spon

daic) on the first.
     "6. Arsis gradually fell, especially on prosodically long syllables,

whether long vowels or short ones, followed by several consonants, from

the physical fact that to pronounce such required more wind, which (in
                  case of the unnatural          ' stage           '
the exceptional                                           whisper      involves                    more
                                                                    )

noise, and therefore an unconscious arsis.
     "
         7.  In sponda-dactylic  metre, like hexameter,    the arsis is always on

the first syllable of the foot. The key-arsis of the verse should therefore

be given by making its first syllable as strong as possible. You have
Igenerally kept this rule admirably well. Here and there see a verse
Ibeginning with ' To ' or some such word.
                                                      am sure this is to be avoided.

348 Charles Kingsley.

If you only strike the key strongly at the beginning of each verse, the

reader's ear gets into rhythm at once and goes all right.

  " 8. In English --and I suppose in Greek-- we could have heard

spoken) each word of more than one syllable has its recognised arsis and

thesis, which in English generally coincides with its prosody, and un
                                                                     (if

                                                                                                           is

                                                                                                      it

accountably mis-called (owing to the ignorant nomenclature of music-

writers), its accent, e.g., bounty has long syllable corresponding with

prosody -- but what of words of two short syllables e.g. bonny, or
                                                   a                     ?
bonny  is                                                a                        is,                             to put be
         it ?
   " Here all that we can do to produce rhythm in English

fore the first word, or after the second, syllable not only in arsis from

its metrical position, but so long-sounding (i.e. difficult to pronounce) as

to kill the natural arsis of the short syllable in conventional arsis, and
               short by ear, eg. in (i.) Hey, bonn^ boy,' the first syllable of
make                                               '

                                                       in

                                                                                                  it
bon killed and made short: but (2.) 'The bonn^, bonny broom,'
remains quasi-long, because pronounced somewhat more long than in

the    first case,  though not as long             as broom.         in  English  (dependent                      on
            There    are certain rules             about arsis
   "
is,
       9.

                        a
                                                                                a

                                                                                                              is
logic) in the case of two or more connected words. One important one

that when noun and epithet are together, the noun in arsis, and

the epithet in thesis (except in the case of distinctive). Thus blue sed'
deep dit'ch' and so further have the arsis naturally thrown by the reader
on the last syllable, and are therefore inadmissible at the end of an

hexameter.             came to this conclusion twenty-five years ago in reading
I it.
              'I

                     I
                                               it
attempts at English Hexameters,' by Whewell, &c., and still maintain

       The last syllable of the hexameter must be in marked thesis.
                                                                                  is
               rule which                                                             a
               analyzing,
                                                                                              is It

                                                                                                       is
this"  very                gives its ever-recurring and                  endless roll.
       On                       found the mistake to lie                  with old unmusical

scholiasts, who told us that the last foot of hexameter                                                           spondee.
                                                       is
differ. The basis of the hexameter                         aa        dactyl. The spondee a

mere contraction thereof, the last syllable of the spondee being in thesis,
because the two last syllables of dactyl are always in thesis. The
                                                   "| a
root-foot of the last foot of hexameter believe to be dactyl, which
                           is in a                     a aI                  a

shortened (as usually                 Homer) into                aatrochee, simply because the
is
last syllable of the dactyl represented by                           rest. Thus, a dactyl equal
ling =" "i vf=:'t becomes ^M-I                                       rest being found practically
                                                   3=
           ;
necessary after so long verse (really whole stanza you consider the
                           a                                             if

caesura) and        a  full breath being necessary, before beginning the next

verse, as you will find, whenever you listen to hexameters well read.
" have no more to add, save to apologise for this dry pedantry. The

                       is,
                                  it
excuse for which           that has been brooding in my head for twenty-five

ears and to say, that on my theory, the modern one that trochees

         A find on the Mount.                                                                                         349

may be substituted for spondees in English hexameters is not allow
able. Indeed, that seems to me the great cause of failure in Whewell,

Herschel, Longfellow, etc. When such a verse as

         " Slowly, slowly, slowly, the days succeeded each other "

Ipresents itself, can only answer, It is pretty, but no hexameter. It

looks like one, because the comma after each slowly serves as a rest,
and connects slowly into something like a dactyl ; but read without

commas, it is some sort of comic trochaic brachycatalectic.

  " I have felt the extreme difficulty of finding spondees in English.
ISpondees contained in one word are most rare.
                                                had to make almost

all mine out of two ; but if you (as you have done so kindly) praise my

hexameters, look at them, whether what force they have is not owing to
Ithe use of real spondees -- a feat so difficult, that
                                                        will never write

another, and look with astonishment and admiration at your labours,

and at your great success."

  A friend lent him an old horse this year which gave him

constant amusement, and kept him in health, and he writes to
Mr. T. Hughes :--

  I" had just done my work, and seen my poor, and dinner was

coming on the table yesterday -- just four o'clock, --when the bow

wows appeared on the top of the Mount, trying my patch of gorse ; so
II jumped up, left the cook shrieking, and off. He wasn't there, but
Iknew where he was, for
                             keep a pretty good register of foxes (ain't

they my parishioners, and parts of my flock ?) ; and, as the poor fellows

had had a blank day, they were very thankful to find themselves in
five minutes going like mad. We had an hour and a half of it--
scent breast high as the dew began to rise (bleak north-easter --always
good weather), and if we had not crossed a second fox, should have

killed him in the open ; as it was we lost him after sunset, after the

fiercest grind I have had this nine years, and I went back to my dinner.

The old horse behaved beautifully ; he is not fast, but in the enclosed

woodlands he can live up to any one and earned great honour by leaping
in and out of the Loddon ; only four more doing and one receiving
a

            I

                                                                        !

                                                                                                    it,
                                                                                                                  7,
mucker.  feel three years younger to-day.
" P.S. -- The whip tells me there were three in the river together,

rolling over horse and man What a sight to have lost even by being

a- head.                                                                                                              when Mr.

   " Have you seen the story of the run of January

35O Charles Kingsley.

Woodburne's hounds found at Blackholme, at the bottom of Winder

mere, and ended beyond Helvellyn, more than fifty miles of mountain.

After Applethwaite Crag (where the field lost them) they had a ring on
High Street (2700 feet) of an hour unseen by mortal eye; and after

that were seen by shepherds in Patterdale, Brotker Water, top of Fair

Dunnaid Gap ; and   then over                  of Helvellyn (3050) ;
ground on Birkside                             find it on the maps.
                    Screes --
Ifield (2900)                         the top
                                      cannot
and then to

But what a poetic thing ! Helvellyn was deep in frost and snow. Oh,

Ithat could write a ballad thereanent. The thing has taken possession
Iof me ; but can't find words. There was never such a run since we

were born; and think of hounds doing the last thirty miles alone!"

   One of his many correspondents at this time was Frederika

Bremer, the Swedish novelist, who, in the previous autumn

among other visitors, paid a visit to Eversley Rectory. She
had come to England to see the Great Exhibition, but she
expressed one still stronger desire, which was to see Charles
Kingsley, whose writings had struck a deep chord in her heart.

It would be needless to say that he thought her one of the most

highly cultivated women he had ever conversed with, and her
sweet gentleness and womanliness attracted him still more
than her intellect. After she left Eversley, she sent him Esaia
Tegner's " Frithiof's Saga," with this inscription : " To the Viking
of the New Age, Charles Kingsley, this story of the Vikings of
the Old, from a daughter of the Vikings, his friend and admirer,
Frederika Bremer." He had several letters from her, but there
is only space for this one, sent with a copy of her " Midnight

Sun."

FREDERIKA BREMER TO CHARLES KINGSLEY.

" MY YOUNG FRIEND,                    London, Nov. i, 1851.

            " Will you allow me to call you in writing, in plain words, what

I have called and do call you in my mind and heart ? You must, think
then it is a baptismal of the spirit and you must understand it. I have

Ireceived your books. They shall go with me over the sea to my father

land, and there in my silent home, shall read them, live in them, enjoy
them deeply, intensely. I know
                                know  all the better since have
                I

                                     a
                                                it,
                                                               it

                                                                           a

                                                                  I
been with you.  have had dream sometimes of young brother -- like

                          Frederika Bretner.              351

that one that was snatched away from me in his youth ; like him but

Imore ardent, a young mind that could like, love, sympathise with,

quarrel with, live with, influence, be influenced by, follow, through the

thorny path, through tropical islands, through storm and sunshine, higher
Iand higher ascending in the metamorphosis of existence.
                                                          had that
Idream, that vision again when saw you, that made me so sad at part

ing. But let that pass. With much we must part. Much must pass.

More will remain. The communion of related souls will remain to be
I Irevived again and again.
                          shall hear from you, and will write to you.

Meantime my soul will hover about you with the wings of blessing
I I Ithoughts.
send you some books ; not the one thought of, could
Inot get a copy. But send a copy of my last book, the ' Midnight

Sun.' As you are fond of Natural History, the sketch of the people and
provinces of Sweden in the introduction may interest you, this much be

longs to the natural history of a country. The voyage up to the moun

tains of the midnight sun, the scenery there is perfectly true to nature ;

I have seen and lived it through myself. Frithiofs Saga I take peculiar

pleasure in asking you to accept, as a true follower of Scandinavian

mind and life, and as the story of a spirit to whom your own is nearly

related.
   " The universal, the tropical mind seems more embodied in man in

the rigid zones of the north, than in those of tropical nature. (It is
strange but it seems to me to be so) the old Viking's greatness was that he
wanted to conquer the whole world and make it his own. The mission

of the spiritual Viking seems to me the higher one to conquer the world

to God. So is yours. God speed you ! and He will ! God bless you
and yours, your lovely wife first among those, and lastly -- me as one of

yours in sisterly love."

   In the autumn of 1852 an effort was made to open the
Crystal Palace on Sundays -- a move which many thought
would stem the tide of Sunday drunkenness, and his friend
Mr. George Grove wrote to him on the subject. He replied --

                          TO GEORGE GROVE, ESQ.

" I am in sad perplexity about your letter.               October 28, 1852.

                                                 I have been talking
it over with Maurice. He says he shall take the matter in hand in his
Lincoln's Inn sermons, and that it is a more fit thing for a London than

for a country parson, being altogether against my meddling. My great

352 Charles Kingsley.

hitch is that my family are strongly the other way, and that although my
father himself is very liberal on the matter, it would pain him dread
fully to see me in the wars with the Evangelical party on that point.

His health is bad, and he is very nervous. You are sure to carry your

point. But this I can do -- I will sound through a friend the Morning
Chronicle and Guardian. A little good management on your company's
part would get the whole of the High Church on their side --you

and the company are as right as a church literally, for the Catholic
doctrine and discipline are on your side

  " Don't fancy me afraid. You and the world know that I am not
Ithat : but if were to tell you all the little ins and outs which make me
shrink, you would see that I was right."

                                       TO THE SAME.
                                                                                     January 2, 1853.

        I" send you an ex-cathedra opinion, which may do even more
good than if I appended my too notorious name. But yet I use freely
Ia pamphlet, here enclosed, by the Rev. Baldwin Brown,* which
think the wisest and most eloquent speech, save Maurice's, which I

have seen on the matter.

                                " For Publication.

  " My dear Grove,-- I am much shocked to hear that this Anti-

Crystal-Palace Agitation is injuring the clergy in the estimation of the
laity. Those who have taken part in it must bear their own burden ; for
whatsoever they have said and done is really, and ought to be clearly
understood to be, the consequence of their own party opinions, and not
of the doctrines either of the Bible or of the Church of England. The
Church of England knows nothing of that definition of the Sabbath as
a fast ; which the Puritans borrowed from the Pharisees and Rabbins of
the most fallen and hideous period of Judaism, and which the Lord
denounced again and again as contrary to, and destructive of, the very
idea and meaning of the sabbath. The Church of England calls Sunday
a feast-day, and not a fast ; and it is neither contrary to her ritual letter,
nor to her spirit, to invite on that day every Englishman to refresh him
self with the sight of the wonders of God's earth, or with the wonders
of men's art, which she considers as the results of God's teaching and

 inspiration.

   * Minister of Brixton Independent Church, author of "The Higher Life," "The
 Home Life," and a remarkable little volume published in 1875, entitled "The Doc

 trine of Annihilation in the Light of the Gospel of Love."

            The yeivish Nation.                            353

   " The letter, moreover, as well as the spirit of the Bible is directly in
favour of the arguments brought forward by the Crystal Palace Com
pany's advocates. The Sabbath, it declares, was made for man. And
man, it declares to be, not a mere ' soul to be saved ' (an expression
nowhere used in Scripture, in its modern sense of a spirit, to be got

safely through to some future state of bliss), but as consisting of

body, soul, and spirit --meaning by soul what we call intellect and

feelings. And therefore any institution, which like the Crystal Palace

tends to give healthy and innocent rest and refreshment to body, mind,

and tastes, is in accordance in a lower sphere certainly, but still directly
in accordance with the letter of the Sabbatical institution, as a day of

rest made for man as man.

  " I think that you would find, --were any real danger to the Crystal

Palace scheme to require a wide spread agitation in its favour, that the
High Church party, as well as the great majority of ' moderate church
men,' would coincide in this view, and that the present outcry would be

found to have proceeded only from that rapidly decreasing Low Church

party, which tries to unite most eclectically and inconsistently a watery
Calvinism with the profession of the Catholic creeds and formularies of

the Church of England. Firmly convinced that in this case the Vox
Populi coincides with the Vox Dei,

                            I" remain, yours faithfully,

                                                  " A High Church Parson."

The following letters need no explanation --

TO ADOLPH SAPHIR, Esq., (then a student in Edinburgh.)

                                   Eversi.ey, November I, 1852.

If" I am surprised at your writing to me, it is the surprise of delight

at finding that my writings have been of use to any man, and above all
Ito a

many
Jew. For     your nation have a    very deep love,  first  because so
                                   in one case a    near    connexion
  intimate  friends of mine --and
are Jews, and next, because I believe as firmly as any modern inter
preter of prophecy, that you are still the ' T/ie Nation] and that you

Ihave a glorious, as think a culminating, part to play in the history of
the race. Moreover, I owe all I have ever said or thought about

Christianity as the idea which is to redeem and leaven all human life,

'secular' as well as 'religious,' to the study of the Old Testament,

without which the New is to me unintelligible ; and I cannot love the

Hebrew books without loving the men who wrote them. My reason

354 Charles Kingsley.

and heart revolt at that magical theory of inspiration which we have

borrowed from the Latin Rabbis (the very men whom we call fools on

every other subject), which sinks the personality of the inspired writer,
Iand makes him a mere puppet and mouthpiece ; and therefore
                                                                             love

your David, and Jeremiah, and Isaiah, as men of like passions with

Imyself-- men who struggled, and doubted, and suffered, that might learn
from them ; and loving them, how can I but love their children, and

yea"rnYoouversetehmem towitbhe  unspeakable pity ?  a  Christian  minister.  In that
                                 about to become

capacity your double education, both as a German and as a Hebrew,

ought to enable you to do for us what we sadly need having done,

almost as much as   those Jews   among whom your brother so heroically
                    to teach us  the real meaning of the Old Testament
laboured -- I mean

and its absolute unity with the New. For this we want not mere
' Hebrew scholars,' but Hebrew spirits -- Hebrew men ; and this must
be done, and done soon, if we are to retain our Old Testament, and
therefore our New. For if we once lose our faith in the Old Testa

ment, our faith in the New will soon dwindle to the impersonal ' spiri
tualism ' of Frank Newman, and the German philosophasters. Now

the founder of German unbelief in the Old Testament was a Jew.
Benedict Spinoza wrote a little book which convulsed the spiritual

world, and will go on convulsing it for centuries, unless a Jew undoes
                                                       the whole method of
what a Jew has done.                Spinoza beat down
rabbinical interpretation                              rabbinical inspiration ;
                                --the whole theory of
Ibut he had nothing, as believe, to put in their place. The true
method of interpretation -- the true theory of inspiration is yet sadly to

seek. At least such a method and such a theory as shall coincide with

history and with science. It is  my belief that        the        Christian Jew is
                                                       can        interpret the New
the man who can give us the key  to both--who

and the Old Testaments both, because he alone can place himself in

the position of the men who wrote them, as far as national sympathies,

sorrows, and hopes, are concerned -- not to mention the amount of
merely antiquarian light which he can throw on dark passages for us, if

Ihe chooses to read as          a Jew and not as a Rabbinist.           Jew, not  to

   " would therefore            intreat you, and every other converted

sink your nationality, because you have become a member of the Uni

versal Church, but to believe with the old converts of Jerusalem, that

you are a true Jew because you are a Christian ; that as a Jew you have
your special office in the perfecting of the faith and practice of the
church, which no Englishman or other Gentile can perform for you :

neither to Germanize or Scotticise, but try to see all heaven and earth

with the eyes of Abraham, David, and St. Paul."

On Pupil and Parish Work.                                         355

TO A FRIEND.

(Lately ordained, who was thinking of taking pupils, and whom he advised to postpone

the work till he had thoroughly mastered his parish work. )
I I" You know,
think, why first determined on taking pupils and
Iemploying a curate -- that
                                might pay off money sunk by me on
Ichurch property, where had only a life interest, to pay for the sins and
neglect of my predecessors -- to enable me to give up a sinecure,
hateful and burdensome to my conscience -- to enable me to build

and organise schools, and other social improvements in the parish, as

opportunity offered. I hoped also that the work of pupils would be a

healthy training for my own mind on points necessarily long neglected ;

....that it might give me an opportunity of saving a young heart or two
from this untoward generation   That by leaving the parish routine
Iwork in the hands of a devoted and methodical man, might find time
Ito labour on those social questions to which cannot but believe my
Iself, by strange providences, especially called.
                                                     may have been mis
taken --God knows -- ' the heart is deceitful above all things.'

I ....may have mistaken laziness and ambition for the voice of God
I may have incurred the prophet's rebuke, ' Thou hast kept other vine

yards, but thine own vineyard hast thou not kept.' And you may have

a perfect right to ask me why I should press upon you an entire devo

Ition of your time to priestly labour, which did not impose on myself.
I IBut may answer, that bought this cessation by seven years of weary,

single-handed, uphill toil, ending in a severe illness from over- exertion ;

I-- that eat my bread in heaviness of heart for very labour and anxiety,

let me have seemed as cheerful as I may; and found optics and Homer

real relaxations from the crushing weight of an enormous nightmare

object, which seemed vaster and more difficult the more I toiled to master
it. No wonder, then, if I was tempted to ask some one else to take the

simpler (though not less holy or less awful, or requiring less utter devo

tion, self-restraint, methodic  exertion) functions  of   my calling off   my
hands for awhile --perhaps in    the conceited hope   of  indoctrinating  him
with my own ideas, and stirring him up to outstrip me -- which may
God grant -- in the great work of uniting the Catholic church of the past

with the inevitable democracy of the future.
   " For such an object, and just as much for the work of preaching

Christ's gospel to the poor, awakening the souls of old women, and

telling little children of their Father in Heaven, there is needed con

tinual self-examination, self-restraint, continual pains to bring every
talent to bear on God's work, to develop and train, even by the

most mechanical drudgery, every faculty one finds in oneself. One
must give Christ all, and the best which we can make of all, for it is His

                                                             aa2

356 Charles Kingsley.

already, bought with His own blood. You may thank God if you have

been spared those hours of bitter agony and remorse, those humbling

and heart-searching sins, which drive men to Christ like cured demoniacs,

to cling desperately to His feet, and refuse to stir from them again for

ever ; but surely you will be the last to make the absence of those fear

ful experiences an excuse for less intense loyalty to Him who has pre

Iserved you from them. That you would never do so consciously,

well know (but we do many things in practice, which we should

shudder at in reflection) ; and ask yourself, whether your as yet sunny and
simple life, to which melancholy itself is a sort of graceful and luxurious

phase, may not be keeping you sporting somewhat too much on the sur

face of things, keeping from you those awful questions, more awful than
any metaphysic or dialectic speculations in the world. -- Is my heart

right with God ? Do I know that wheresoever my will is not utterly His

Iwill, Iam a sinner and a rebel ? How shall do His work, before the
night cometh wherein no man can work ? How shall I be faithful in a

few things that He may make me ruler over many things ? Am I
Iwrapped up in systems and formulae, even when am declaiming against
them, or am I looking face to face at Almighty God Himself, and the

spi"ritTuhaelswe oqrludesotfiosnisn  and righteousness,  heaven and hell  on earth ?  dear
                                      may seem harsh     and impertinent  ; but, my
friend, I warn you, in the name of God, that the day is fast coming

when no man can work, but only take his wages, such as they are. We

live in a time more awful than the world has seen since the Reformation

--more awful even than that. The day of the Lord is at hand. Then

every man whose heart is not whole with God must be content to have

the whole foundations of his faith battered, ground to powder, stone by
stone, go down into the hell of doubt -- disbelief--perhaps sheer Atheism,

or Popery, which is in some cases but Atheism in purple and fine linen.

Affliction, persecution, calumny, will be the lot of every man who dares

preach the Kingdom of God, and the living Church of the living

Christ. Then every man's work will be tried with fire, be sifted

.... Iwith the sieve of vanity, and tried in the fire of the wrath of God
         God give you true grace to stand in that day -- may fall,

for aught I know-- I should fall now, daily, and give up God as a hard
Itaskmaster, and Christ as a bygone legend, did not hope and trust

utterly that He who has brought me thus far, will never leave me nor

Iforsake me, will drive me back with the thunderbolts of His wrath, every

time dare to wander or grow lazy. Oh my dear friend, pray for me
and for yourself, that we may never need those thunderbolts -- never

need to be taught by bitter shame and agony, how little we have really

loved, served, trusted Him of whom we talked so glibly."

                 CHAPTER XII.

                                                                 1853-

                                                              AGED 34.

THE RECTOR IN His Church-- " HYPATIA" LETTERS FROM CHEVALIER

       BUNSEN-- MR. MAURICE'S THEOLOGICAL ESSAYS-- CORRESPONDENCE WITH
       THOMAS COOPER.

" MY heart and hope is with thee-- Thou wilt be
A latter Luther, and a soldier priest,

To scare church-harpies from the Master's feet ;

Our dusted velvets have much need of thee :

Thou art no Sabbath-drawler of old saws,

Distill'd from some worm-canker'd homily ;

But spurr'd at heart with fieriest energy,

To embattail and to wall about thy cause

With iron-worded proof, hating to hark

The humming of the drowsy pulpit-drone,
Half God's good Sabbath, while the worn-out clerk

Brow-beats his desk below. Thou from a throne,

IMounted in heaven wilt shoot into the  dark
Arrows of lightning.  will stand and    mark. "
                                            Tennyson
                                                      (Early  Sonnets).


1.

                         CHAPTER XII.

   The books which entailed so many letters, now also attracted

strangers to Eversley Church on Sunday. Officers from Sand
hurst would constantly walk over, and occasionally a stray
clergyman would be seen in the free sittings.

   "Twenty-five Village Sermons" had been published in 1849, and
had been brought into notice by a review in the " Times," and
" Sermons on National Subjects," perhaps the most remarkable
of all his volumes of sermons, had just been brought out. His

preaching was becoming a great power. It was the speech of a

live man to living beings.

   " Yes, my friends," he would say, " these are real thoughts. They

Iare what come into people's minds every day ; and am here to talk

to you about what is really going on in your soul and mine ; not to
repeat to you doctrines at second hand out of a book, and say, ' There,

that is what you have to believe and do, and if you do not, you will go

to hell;' but to speak to you as men of like passions with myself; as

sinning, sorrowing, doubting, struggling human beings ; to talk to you

of what is in my own heart, and will be in your hearts too, some day, if
                         "
it has not been already

   The collect he invariably used before preaching for twenty-
four years was the one for the Second Sunday in Advent, till
about six years ago, when the question of prayer before sermon

being discussed in his parish, he consulted his diocesan (Samuel,

Bishop Wilberforce), and decided to abide by his opinion. From
that time he used in the morning the Invocation to the Trinity,

in the afternoon the usual Collect and Lord's Prayer.
   After he gave out his text, the poor men in the free sittings

under the pulpit would turn towards him, and settle themselves
into an attitude of fixed attention. In preaching he would try to

360 Charles Kingsley.

keep still and calm, and free from all gesticulation ; but as he

went on, he had to grip and clasp the cushion on which his

sermon rested, in order to restrain the intensity of his own

emotion ; and when, in spite of himself, his hands would escape,
they would be lifted up, the fingers of the right hand working

with a peculiar hovering movement, of which he was quite un

conscious ; his eyes seemed on fire, his whole frame worked and

vibrated. It was riveting to see as well as hear him, as his

eagle glance penetrated every corner of the church, and whether

there were few or many there, it was enough for him that

those who were present were human beings, standing between

two worlds, and that it was his terrible responsibility as well

as high privilege, to deliver a message to each and all. The

great festivals of the church seemed to inspire him, and his words
would rise into melody. At Christmas, Easter, Whitsuntide,

and on the Holy Trinity especially, his sermon became a song

of gladness ; during Advent, a note of solemn warning. On

Good Friday, and through the Passion week evening services,

it would be a low and mournful chant, uttered in a deep,

plaintive, and at moments almost agonised tone, which hushed

his congregation into a silence that might be felt.

None who were present one Christmas morning seventeen years

ago can forget his tone and look, as after giving out his text

from Luke ii., 7, he began :      " and after a pause, in which more
" Mother and child

than one tender heart beat in sad sympathy for any childless

mother who might be in the congregation, he went on,--

" Think of             my friends, on Christmas Day. Mother and child.
                       it,
                            is

                                         ?
                                           is

                                                                       ?

                                                                        a

                                                                                             ?
What more beautiful sight there in the world What more beautiful

sig"htW, ahnadt  what  more wonderful sight
                 more
                       beautiful  That man   must be very far from                                the  king
dom of God -- he not worthy to be called man at all-- whose heart

has not been touched by the sight of his first child on its mother's

bosom.

   " The greatest painters who have ever lived have tried to paint the
beauty of that simple thing-- mother with her babe and have failed.
One of them, Raffaelle by name, to whom God gave the spirit of beauty
in a measure in which He never gave perhaps to any other man, tried
                                  a
                                                it,

                                                                                               :

                                 Festival and Fast.                        361

again and again, for years, painting over and over that simple subject --
the mother and her babe -- and could not satisfy himself. Each of his

pictures is most beautiful, each in a different way : and yet not one of

them is perfect. There is more beauty in that simple every-day sight

than he or any man can express by his pencil and his colours.              And
yet it is a sight which we see every day." *

   Again, another Christmas, the sermon was on Music, and theii.:
Song of the Angels, in Luke 13, 14, was the text " Music,"

he said --then stopped --and all whose eyes were not already

turned to the pulpit, looked up.

" Music --There              is  something very wonderful in music. Words are

wonderful enough, but music even more wonderful. It speaks not
                                 :
to our thoughts as words do               speaks straight to our hearts, spirits,
                                   it is

to the very core and root of our souls. Music soothes us, stirs us up
                                        melts us to tears, we know not how --;
puts noble feelings into us                                                     ;;
it it                            ;  it
     is
      language by itself, just as perfect in its way as speech, as words
     tI
just as divine, just as blessed. Music has been called the speech of
angels; will go further, and call the speech of God himself; -- and
                                          it                               I

will, with God's help, show you a little what mean this Christmas
                                                           I

Day."

   Again on Good Friday, when by an old observance the church;
was crammed with day labourers in their working clothes, who
only had their holiday on condition of attending morning sera

vice and when besides his usual congregation, the inhabitants

from outlying districts, who usually went to other nearer parish
churches, and few strong Calvinistic Baptists, who on other
occasions attended chapel, with some who seldom entered

church at all, filled every seat before him, he would speak yet
more wonderful words, but in such simple language that all

could understand him.
                                                         ;
" What are we met together to think of this day               God          pain --
                                                                   it
                  -- God                                               is ?
                  this --
                                                                                        in
                                                                                                     a
God    sorrowing                 dying for man as  far as  God could die.  pain -- God
      Now                        the blessed news    that  God suffered
   "   it

sorrowed -- God died, as far as God could die --which makes the Gospelt is
                           ;
different from all other religions in the world and           this too which

         * The Christ Child. Good News of God, Serm. xviii.
            Music. Good News of God, Serm. xvii.

362 Charles Kingsley.

makes the Gospel so strong to conquer men's hearts and soften them and

bring them back to God and righteousness in a way no other religion

has ever done. It is the good news of this good day called Good

Friday which wins souls to Christ and will win them as long as men are

men.     . . ."  (And   then, after describing the careless gods  of the heathen
sitting  happy   up in                                            less for poor,
                        heaven and caring for no man -- still
ugly, deformed, foolish wretches, he burst forth)-- "And as there was no
love to God before Good Friday, so there was no love to men. But
Christ came --God came --and became man. And with the blood of

His Cross was bridged over for ever the gulf between God and man, and

the gulf between man and man.* . . . ."

   Again in 1850, when his own heart was oppressed for the
people, he thus concluded perhaps the finest sermon he ever

preached :

" Oh ! sad hearts and suffering ! Anxious and weary ones ! Look

to the Cross this day ! There hung your King. The King of sorrow

ing souls, and more the King of Sorrows. Ay, pain and grief, tyranny
and desertion, death and hell, He has faced them one and all, and

tried their strength, and taught them His, and conquered them right
royally ! And since He hung upon that torturing cross, sorrow is

divine, godlike, as joy itself. All that man's fallen nature dreads and

despises, God honoured on the cross, and took unto Himself, and blest

and consecrated for ever. And now, blessed are the poor, if they are

poor in heart as well as purse, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.

Blessed are the hungry, if they hunger for righteousness as well as food ;

for Jesus hungered, and they shall be filled. Blessed are those who

mourn, if they mourn not only for their afflictions, but for their sins, and
the sins of those they see around them : for on this day, Jesus mourned
for our sins : on this day He was made sin for us who knew no sin, and

they shall be comforted. Blessed are those who are ashamed of them

selves and humble themselves before God this day; for on this day

Jesus humbled Himself for us, and they shall be exalted. Blessed are
the forsaken and despised. Did not all men forsake Jesus this day, in
His hour of need ? And why not thee, too, thou poor deserted one ?

Shall the disciple be above his master ? No, every one that is perfect,

must be like his master. The deeper, the bitterer your loneliness, the

more you are like Him who cried upon the cross, ' My God my God
                 forsaken me ? '
why  hast  Thou               »   *      **
           *

                 * God in Pain, ser. xxxv. Good news of God.

Passion Services.                                363

   " All things are blessed now, but sin ; for all things, excepting sin,
are redeemed by the life and death of the Son of God. Blessed are

wisdom and courage, joy, and health, and beauty, love and marriage,
childhood and manhood, corn and wine, fruits and flowers, for Christ
redeemed them by His life. And blessed, too, are tears and shame,

blessed are weakness and ugliness, blessed are agony and sickness,

blessed the sad remembrance of our sins, and a broken heart, and a

repentant spirit. Blessed is death, and blessed the unknown realms,
where souls await the resurrection day, for Christ redeemed them by
His death. Blessed are all things, weak, as well as strong. Blessed
are all days, dark, as well as bright, for all are His, and He is ours ; and
all are ours, and we are His, for ever.

    "Therefore sigh on, ye sad ones, and rejoice in your own sadness;
ache on ye suffering ones, and rejoice in your own sorrows. Rejoice
that you are made free of the holy brotherhood of mourners, that you

may claim your place too, if you will, among the noble army of martyrs.
Rejoice that you are counted worthy of a fellowship in the sufferings of

the Son of God. Rejoice and trust on, for after sorrow shall come joy.
Trust on ; for in man's weakness God's strength shall be made perfect.
Trust on, for death is the gate of life. Endure on to the end, and

possess your souls in patience for a little while, and that perhaps a very
little while. Death comes swiftly, and more swiftly still, perhaps, the

day of the Lord. The deeper the sorrow, the nearer the salvation.

The night is darkest before the dawn ;

When the pain is sorest,  the child   is  born,
And the day of the Lord   at hand         *
                                     !"

   The evening services for the Passion Week were given at an
hour to suit the labouring men on their way home from work,
when a few would drop into church, and to those few he preached
a short sermon of about fifteen minutes, which a London con
gregation would have gone miles to hear. Those who were
present, sometimes only fifteen to twenty besides his own family,
will not forget the dimly-lighted church in the twilight of the
spring evenings, with its little sprinkling of worshippers, and the
silence as of death and the grave, when with a look which he
never seemed to have at any other season, he followed Christ
through the sufferings of the Holy Week, beginning with either

                                * Good Friday, ser. vii. National Sermons.

364 Charles Kingsley.

the liii. or Ixiii. of Isaiah, on each day its own event, from the
First Communion to the Betrayal --the Denial of Peter, the fate
of Judas, on to the foot of the Cross. And when "the worst was
over," with what a gasp of relief was Easter Even, with its rest
and quietness, reached ; and with significant words about that
intermediate state, in which he so deeply believed, he would

lead our thoughts from the peaceful sepulchre in the garden to
the mysterious gate of Paradise.

   Passion Week was, to him, a time of such real and terrible

pain that he always thanked God when it was over; and on Easter
day he would burst forth into a song of praise once more, for the
Blessed Resurrection not only of Christ the Lord, but of man, and
of the dear earth he loved so well-- spring after winter, birth after

death. Every gnat that danced in the sunshine on the blessed
Easter morn ; every blade of grass in the dear churchyard spoke
of hope and joy and a living God. And the flowers in the
church, and the graves decked with bright wreaths, would add
to his gladness, as he paced up and down before service. Many
a testimony has come to the blessing of those village sermons.
" Twenty-five village sermons," said a clergyman working in a
great city parish, " like a plank to a drowning man kept me
from sinking in the ' blackness of darkness,' which surrounds the
unbeliever. Leaning upon these, while carried about by every

wind of doctrine, I drifted hither and thither, at last, thanks be to
God, I found standing ground." But none who merely read

them could tell what it was to hear them, and to see him, and
the look of inspiration on his face, as he preached them. While
to those his nearest and dearest, who looked forward with an

ever fresh intensity of interest to the Sunday services week after
week, year after year, each sermon came with double emphasis
from the knowledge that the daily life of the week days was no
contradiction to, but a noble carrying out of the words preached

in Church.
   His sermons owed much to the time he gave himself for pre

paration. The Sunday services, while they exhausted him
physically, yet seemed to have the effect of winding his spirit up
to higher flights. And often late on Sunday evening he would
talk over with his wife the subject and text of the next week's

                    Invitation to Edinburgh.  365

sermon. On Monday, he would, if possible, take a rest, but on

Tuesday, to use his own words, it would be set on the stocks.

The text already chosen, the method of treating it was sketched,

and the first half carefully thought out before it was dictated

or written, then put by for a day or two, while yet it was simmer

ing in his brain, and finished on Friday.  He seldom put off his
sermon till Saturday.

This year, begun at Eversley and ended at Torquay, was one

of much anxiety and incessant labour. Unable to get a pupil,

he was therefore unable to keep a curate. The Sunday services,

night schools, and cottage lectures, were done single-handed ;

and if he seemed to withdraw from his old associates in the

cause of co-operation, and of the working men in London, it

was not from want of interest, but of time and strength. He

went only once to London, to lecture for the Needlewomen's

Association. Constant sickness in the parish and serious illness in

his own household gave him great anxiety; while the proceedings

of the King's College Council against his friend and teacher, Mr.

Maurice, on the ground of the views on eternal punishment, pub

lished in his Theological Essays, depressed him deeply. But

the year had its lights as well as shadows ; he had the comfort of

seeing the first good national school built and opened in his
parish ; friends, new and old, came and went -- Mr. Maurice fre

quently -- Bishop McDougall of Labuan, and Mr. Alfred Tenny

son. His intimacy with Bishop Wilberforce, Chevalier Bunsen,

and Miss Mitford deepened ; he made the personal acquaint
ance of several of his hitherto unknown correspondents, and met

Mr. Robert Browning and his wife, for the first time, at the house

of mutual friends.

He had a pressing invitation from Edinburgh to give a course

of lectures on the Alexandrian schools, in the Philosophical

Institution, to which he answered as follows to Mr. Francis

Russell :

   " It is hardly necessary to say that such an invitation from such a

body, even were it not backed by the expected pleasure of seeing you,
and the scarcely less wished for pleasure of seeing Edinburgh, must be
answered at once in the affirmative, and the subject which is proposed

366 Charles Kingsley.

Iis one on which certainly have something to say, whether right or
                 I do not see how I could give what I should consider
wrong. But

an honest account of the Alexandrian school of philosophy, without speak

ing very directly as an orthodox Christian, and saying a great many
Ithings which might very much offend a mixed body of hearers.
                                                                                     am

sure that every word of such a lecture proceeding from me would be an

indirect reprobation of Martineau, Emerson, and the modern Neo

IPlatonists, and that no tact of mine could prevent (even if wished to do

the    analogy from being apparent.
On     the other hand do believe,
Iso)"                                                 that  if  anything  will save  Presby

terian Scotland from Neo Platonism, into which all Calvinism Church          is,
                                                                                             ?
after Church, hurling itself by natural revulsion,              ;            by having the

warning of the Alexandrian schools fairly put before them. But can oneit
                                                                         is
do this without  on the other hand offending many worthy orthodoxites
                 questions which you, with your local knowledge, must
   " These are

kindly consider for me, ere give definite answer."
                         I

                                      a
                                           a

                                                   a
   " Hypatia " this year came out as book and by thoughtful
people was recognised not only as most valuable page of history,                     it
but as a real work of art. In one section of the English church

made him bitter enemies, more bitter, perhaps, than were
stirred up by either " Yeast " or the " Saint's Tragedy."

if "It was," as Dean Stanley truly says, "his moral enthusiasm, which, ina
              '
                                      'the pages of Hypatia has scathed with an everlasting brand the name of
                              a
the Alexandrian Cyril and his followers, for their outrages on humanity and
morality in the name of hollow Christianity and spurious orthodoxy.
Read, you would learn some of the most impressive lessons of Ecclesi
astical history. -- Read and inwardly digest those pages, perhaps the most
powerful he ever wrote which close that wonderful story by discriminating
the destinies which awaited each of its characters as they passed, one after

another, each to his own place.'
       '

                                            *

   The work was more appreciated in Germany than in England
for some years. " Hypatia," to quote Herr Peter Keulter, of

Pesth, German historian,
     aa
" Est                        a
                                                   a
       la fois une magnifique peinture des mceurs d'une e'poque

recule'e de l'histoire,  mettre cote des plus belles pages de Walter

Scott et de quelques unes des pages d'Augustin Thierry, mais encore

       * Funeral Sermon on Canon Kingsley in Westminster Abbey.

              Appreciation of Hypatia by Germans.                367

une profonde etude philosophique, 011 se reflete un esprit de tolerance

que je n'ai jamais rencontre' chez un pretre, et qui fait le plus grand

honneur a Charles Kingsley. Cet homme de bien a-t-il beaucoup
                                                              "
d'imitateurs  parmi  le  clerge'  anglican
                                                            ?

  "I    tdheeligyhetarinbeHfoyrpea, ti"a,o"nlysaiId   Chevalier  Bunsen, when reading it as a
                                                     cannot get  over the hardship against our
serial

common ancestors in presenting them in that drunken mood in which

they appear as lawless and blood-sucking barbarians and chronic

berserkers, rather than what I thought them to be. But I have only just

landed Philammon at Alexandria, and therefore am not able to judge."

     The following letters, written after the book appeared as a

whole, are doubly interesting from their allusions to Baron
                   " Hyppolytus                      "
Bunsen's      own                                        :

              CHEVALIER BUNSEN TO REV. C. KINGSLEY.

                                                                 Prussia House, May, 1853.

     I" want just to send you a line to wish you joy for the wonderful

picture of the inward and outward life of Hypatia's age, and of the

creation of such characters as hers and Raphael's, and the other pro-
....Itogonists.
              have such a longing to see you quietly             that I had

conceived a hope you might be induced to pay me a visit at the seaside.

One day by the sea is worth more than a month in this distracting

metropolis, or Great Sahara.

  I" have written, with all the feeling of awe and responsibility, a con
....fession of my faith, as conclusive of the Preface to my ' Ignatius and
Hyppolytus.'             I am anxious to read it to you, and to speak it to

you.

   " You have performed a great and lasting work, but it is a bold under
taking. You fire over the heads of the public, olov mv avOpamoi dav,
as Nestor says, the pigmies of the circulating library. Besides, you

have (pardon me) wronged your own child most cruelly. Are you aware
that many people object to reading or allowing it to be read, because,
the author says in the Preface, it is not written for those of pure mind ? *

     "A* The passage referred to is the opening paragraph of the Preface where the author
says,     picture oflife in the fifth century must needs contain much which will be

painful to any reader, and which the young and innocent will do well to leave altogether
unread. It has to represent a very hideous, though a very great, age ; one of those

critical and cardinal eras in the history of the human race, in which virtues and vices
manifest themselves side by side -- even, at times, in the same person -- with the most

368 Charles Kingsley.

My daughters exclaimed when they read that in the Preface, after having

read to their mamma the whole in numbers to general edification, as they

do Bible and Shakspeare every day. I should wish you to have said,

that in describing and picturing an age like that, there must here and

there be nudities as in nature and as in the Bible. Nudities there are

because there is truth. For God's sake, let that Preface not come

before Germany without some modified expression. Impure must be the

minds who can be offended or hurt by your picture ! What offends and

hurts is the modern Lilsternlieit, that veiling over indecency, exciting

imagination to draw off the veil in order to see not God's naked nature,

but corrupted man's indecency. Forgive that I take the child's part

against the father ! But, indeed, that expression is not the right, and

unj"usYtouto  yourself, and  besides highly detrimental to the             book.     and
                             persecution of the Evangelicals,              and High
              know of the
dry against Maurice ! I go to-morrow to Hare, and stay till Tuesday.
I am sure you would be more than welcome there, with me and Savage
Landor, who arrives also to-morrow; but I am afraid you are not so

easily moveable. There is place at the rectory or at Lime ; Mrs.

Augustus Hare is there and well.

  " I depend, however, on your being my guest at Carlton Terrace.

Take it as a joint invitation from my wife and myself to Mrs. Kingsley
Iand yourself.
                 have been moved to write strange things in the first

volume of the new ' Hippolytus,' and in the Key (to which Max Miiller
has contributed two most prodigious chapters). You know the spirit
writes what he will, and must. The times before us are brimful of
destruction -- therefore
                             of      regen"erFaatrieown.ell,  The   Nemesis is coming, as Ate.
                                                     "        Ever  yours faithfull"y,BUNSEN."

     Again the Chevalier writes :

                                                                           September 16, 1853.

     I I" must express to you, in a few words, how much                    rejoice

in hearing that you intend to propose to Messrs. Tauchnitz to undertake

startling openness and power. One who writes of such an era labours under a trouble

ifsome disadvantage. He dare not tell how evil people were ; he will not be believed

he tell how good they were. In the present case that disadvantage is doubled ;

for while the sins of the Church, however heinous, were still such as admit of being

expressed in words, the sins of the heathen world against which she fought, were utterly

undescribable ; and the Christian apologist is thus compelled, for the sake of decency,
                                                                           deserve." -- Preface to
t"o   state the  Church's  case far  more weakly  than        the   facts
                 vii.
     Hypatia,"

                          The Rajah Sir James Brooke.                                                                                                                      369

    a German translation of your admirable ' Hypatia.' You know what I

    think about  ' it.    You have succeeded in epicizing, poetically and philo
                    is a
    sophically, one of the most interesting and eventful epochs of the world,

    clothing the spirits of that age in the most attractive fable you resus
                                                                          ;
    citate the real history of the time and its leading characters so poetically  '

    that we forget that instruction          conferred upon us in every page.        I a is I
                                          is
    find no book to which can compare Hypatia but Hope's Anasta-
                           !               I  '           a'
                                                       !
                             II
    sius.' But how much more difficult, and how much more important

    the subject you treat        find that my friends, not only here, but also

' in  Germany, share my opinion.              have sent copy to Abeken, ex

    pressing to him my anxiety should be well translated. It requires
                                 is I it
    man of unusual knowledge and talents to do justice to the original and

    to the subject. Now nobody can manage that better than the distin

guished house with which                  understand you are connected. May

    soon hear that translation coming forth

      "I hope you may be able to come to town during the beautiful

    months of quiet.      I  shall be settled there for good from 15th October.

    Hippolytus            coming out in second edition, but as three different
                                          a

works.
      " a, Hippolytus and his Age (first volume), newly-written, to match the
    Picture of the congregational life in the second volume. Two volumes.
      " The Philosophical Key to
                                             or Outlines of Philosophy of the
      c, b,
                                                 it

                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                 a

                                                                                          I
    History of Language and Religion. Two volumes.
      " Analecta Anle-Nicaena
      " When you come to town     (the philosophical key).     Three volumes.
                                 you must stay with me at     Carlton Terrace,

that we may have quiet night hours and (if you are an early riser) morn
ing hours together, unter vier Augen, as we say. In the meantime,

remain,                      " My dear Mr. Kingsley,
                                                " Ever yours faithfully,
                                                                          " Bunsen."

   The summer found him busy on Rajah Brooke's affairs, and
he writes to Mr. Hughes.

                                                          Eversley, June 30, 1853.

    "Where on earth are the promised manifestos in re Brooke?

Riversdale Grenfell          aux anges with the plan, and says we must get
a
                                    is

                             I

                                          I,

                                                                                                                                                                   B
                                                                                                                                                                        u
  regular man of business to buy the steamer, and manage things for us,
and he recommends, as do an iron steamer, to be carried out in

pieces, and put together.        am in glorious health.

      VOL. I.

370 Charles Kingsley.

                                                                                                   3«fy 14, 1853.

  " I have seen much of Knox in re Rajah Brooke, and am heart and
soul in the matter. I have sent his circulars to the Duke of Sutherland,

Lord Ellesmere, Lord Carlyle, C. Grenfell, G. Glyn, Bishop of Oxford.

Suggest any others.

   An attack on Mrs. Gaskell produced the following letter :

" My DEAR MADAM,                                              EVERSLEY RECTORY, July 25, 1853.

I" am sure that you will excuse my writing to you thus

Iabr"uptlaymwhtoelnd,ytoou  read the  cause of my writing.    you  have  heard  painful
                            my great  astonishment, that

speeches on account         of  '  Ruth    '  what was told me raised all  my indig
                                         ;

nation and disgust.

  " Now I have read only a little (though, of course, I know the story)
of the book ; for the same reason that I cannot read ' Uncle Tom's Cabin,'
or 'Othello,' or ' The Bride of Lammermoor.' It is too painfully good,
Ias f<nu ul before I had read half a volume.
I I" But this
can tell you, that among all my large acquaintance

never heard, or have heard, but one unanimous opinion of the beauty

and righteousness of the book, and that, above all, from real ladies, and

Ireally good women. If you could have heard the things which heard

spoken of it this evening by a thorough High Church fine lady of the

world, and by her daughter, too, as pure and pious a soul as one need

Isee, you would have no more doubt than have, that whatsoever the

' snobs ' and the bigots may think, English people, in general, have but
one opinion of 'Ruth,' and that one of utter satisfaction.

   " doubt not you have had this said to you already often. Believe
I

                        it
                                            is

                                                         is,
me, you may have said to you as often as you will by the purest and

most refined of English women.
   " May God bless you, and help you to write many more such books

as you have already written, the fervent wish of

                                   "Your very faithful        servant,

                                                                  " C. KINGSLEV."

                        TO JOHN MALCOM LUDLOW, ESQ.

   " DEAREST FRIEND,
            " Many thanks for your letter, which, had not every moment

which neuralgia has spared me been spent in finishing an article for

                         Time and Eternity.                                                                  371

IFrazer, I should have answered before.                      am not surprised at your
opinion about ****, and I agree in
                               it                should not be surprised                                     'a
                                   is                          is

                                           it.                                     if

                                         I
fall like David's were to be the means of shaking him out of his pre
                   ''
sent <&wto-mindedness, for     double. There                   the earnest desire
                      I
after the right and true, but intermingled with an element too subtle for

my stupidity to describe, but which seems all wrong.            do not think
                                                             is

                                                                      I

                                                                                             ;

                                                                                        I
that he now convinced of sin,' and there the mischief though
         is

do not hold with the formula which places that the first of The Spirit's

works, simply because The Spirit pursued no such method with me.

                                                 but were to believe in the
                               I
                                              it,
                                                    I

                                                                  I
Surely  if      were so ought to remember

            it

popular theory of 'conversion,' must believe myself un-converted.

With me the change has been gradual and complex; perhaps may

abe self-deceiver, and my heart no more right with God than ****.
  is is
But not God The Love, and The Righteousness, The Father--

and not Christ The Man, and The Obedient, The Self-Sacrificing,

The Son? and not to love them, to love God and Christ, even
                   is

though emotions of devotion to their personalities should be rare and

dull!            my hope about myself. Such                  my hope for men like **»*,
   " Such    I is        .

                             ."
                                                       is

                                                           is
even though they have not yet had revealed to them, as we, thank God,

have, that name of Him whom they blindly but truly worship in His
attributes -- mean, Father and Son. This
                                                               my ground for the salva

tion of such men as Socrates or Antonine, they knew Him, though they
knew not His name. . .

   Mr. Maurice's volume of "Theological Essays "appeared at this
time, and the subject of one, on Eternal Life and Death, was

the cause of his dismissal from King's College by Dr. Jelf and
the Committee. The subject had occupied Mr. Kingsley's

mind for years, and the persecution of his friend and teacher

roused all his chivalry.

   " The Time and Eternity Question," he says in writing to friend,
" coming before the public just now in way which may seriously
' is
                                                                          a is aMaurice,

                                                                                                          aessays, as
                                                 love him make
                                                 constitute an
Ifaffe"cMt aouurricfreie'snd
                               unless all  who                  good fight.                                  the
                               you say,    will                 epoch.

IfChurch of England rejects them, her doom fixed. She will rot and
die, as the Alexandrian did before her.                        she accepts them -- not

as a code complete,' but as hints towards new method of thought,

she may save herself still."

372 Charles Kingsley.

               TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                                                  EVERSLEY, July 14, 1853.

  "I have delayed writing to you about the Essays* till I had read

them over many times, which I have now done.
  I" That agree and admire, is needless to be said. It seems to me

....that the book marks a new era in English ecclesiastical history
not thatjw/, single-handed, have caused it : but that you have justified
Iand expressed what is seething in the minds of so many.
                                                          was utterly
astonished at finding in page after page things which I had thought, and

hardly dared to confess to myself, much less to preach. However, you

have said them now ; and I, gaining courage, have begun to speak more

and more boldly, thanks to your blessed example, in a set of sermons

on the Catechism, accompanying your angels' trump on my private

penny-whistle  Nevertheless, a tail of penny whistles, if they

will only keep tune with you, may be useful. For there is much in your

book which will be caviare. I believe firmly that it will do more good
to the infidels and heretics than to the orthodox, and I will tell you why.

The former are not hampered in mind by those forced dogmatic, syste-

matised interpretations of theologic words which are destroying too

often in the latter the plain sense of right and wrong, truth and false

hood ; and they will, therefore, take your words in their simple and

honest meaning better than ' believers ' and ' churchmen,' who, perhaps

unconsciously to themselves, will be substituting for each of your

Catholic expressions some ghost of a meaning which they got from

Crossman or Watts. Therefore you must expect good pious people to
accuse you of misinterpreting scripture and preaching a new gospel

(which, indeed, you do), and of the very faults of which you and I should

accuse them, that is of partial induction from those texts which seem to
make for your ' theory,' and here we of the penny-whistles shall be of

use to you, in verifying your inductions by applying them to fresh

texts.

    " Moreover, you must submit to be accused of sentimentalism
because you appeal to inward experiences -- by the Sadducees, because

they have not had these experiences, or don't like to confess them

to themselves-- and by the Pharisees, because they allow no spiritual
experiences to be subjects of theologic inquiry, except those which fit

Iinto their system ; and so, indeed, as have more than once dared to

tell them, both disbelieve that man was made in the image of God, and
that God was made man of the substance of his mother.

   " On the whole, the outlook is perfectly awful, when one sees the

               * "Theological Essays."

          Rev. F. D. Maurice and King's College.                          373

mountains of rubbish which have to be cleared before people can be
made to understand their Bible and prayer-book -- and still more awful,

when one feels as I do, that I have just as much dirt and dust to get
Iout of my own brain and heart, before can see to take the mote out

of my brother's eye ; and still more awful, when one feels, as one does,

that though you are utterly right in asserting what the Bible says to be

the keynote of our creeds and prayer-book, yet that there is much,

especially in the latter parts of the prayer-book, which does chime in

with the popular superstitions ; that though the compilers were indeed

inspired, and raised most miraculously above their age, yet they were

not always consistent in seeing what was to be said, any more than

Augustine was ; and then comes the terrible business of being tempted

to twist the tenth word, in order to make it fit the other nine, and of

being called an eclectic, and of not being sure whether one is not one
really. Not that I am frightened at any such awful prospect. If God
Ifis with us who can be against us ?
                                                He has taught us so far, we may

trust Him to teach us more, and make our strength as our day is. And

as one bound to expect, He does not show us the whole truth in
in if,
      it

                is
                     it

                              a

                                                         ?

                                                       is
                                                         it

                                                                   I
this life, but lets us stop short somewhere, why what matter? Let Him

send by the hand of whom He will. He has set us to carry the lamp
                                little further on-- why should we pine at having to
the lamp-race                   It quite honour enough (and suspect,

pass on to fresh runners

before we get done, we shall find               quite work enough) to get one

soul saved alive, or one truth cleared from rubbish, before we die."

                                                                          7uly, 1853-

" seems to me that two courses only are open to you, my dear
It

                         :

                              it

                                                                                                                                 a
master. One to resign your King's College posts at once, with

solemn and sincere printed protest against being required to believe

and say   th"inOgrs,  which the Articles of the   Church         of England do not
require.              to fight out to the very   last and
                                                                 compel them to the

odi"umEithoef rrejceocutirnsge  you.          the sympathy  and  indignation of vast
                                would excite

num" b1e. rsB. y  It remains to be considered.  would       be  hammered  out by the

                  which process most truth

strokes.

   " 2. Which would give least scandal to the Church, e., which would
it
    is
                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                               /'.
                                                                                                                                '

                                                                                                                  it,
give least handle for heretics of the atheistic school to say, Of course his

opinions are incompatible with the Church. We always knew                                                                                           now

proved; and he must join us, or start schism of his own.'

374 CJiarles Kings ley.

  I" Now as for the first count. seriously think that by fighting as long

as you can, you might bring the whole eschatological question up into the
field in such a way, that they would be forced not only to give their

opinions but their reasons, or unreasons for them ; and then, in the eyes
of the world, the triumph is pretty sure, as it is written, ' Oh, that my
                                  book ! '
Iene"mythwinouk,ldtowor,itethaat    in this  way so much  of  the  real  liberality of our

Articles and Liturgy might be made evident, as would prevent the

heretics having any important case against the Church, and turn the

wrath on to the present generation of religionists, and on the bishops,
Ias
"    wish to save religion and episcopacy, in England.
                                                                             College                           that
     But if you are so completely a tenant-at-will at King's

they can dismiss you without making their reasons public, then your

only plan, surely, is to forestall them, and throw up your cure on the

ground of your rights as an English priest, thereby again preiwting

scandal, in the true sense of the verb.
   " But whethersoever of these is your plan, will it not be expedient for

one of us at least, to get up the question historically ? It seems to me

that no such bondage has hitherto been formally demanded in the

English Church. And if we can prove this point, we prove everything

with precedent-worshipping John Bull.                The whole matter for the next
seven years will practically turn on, not,          ' are you right or wrong ? ' but
' are you legally and formally permitted or unpermitted ? ' and that will

depend, in  a vague  business (shame that it              should be vague !  ) like                            this,
on --Were   divines  since the Reformation                  allowed to have   their                            own

opinions on this point, and yet to hold ecclesiastical preferment ?

Indeed, paltry as this point may seem, we must have it formally proved

or disproved, not only for our own safety, but for the safety of the

Est"aNbloiswheddo  Church.        anything   about  this ?    Do you know men who
                   you know

do ? Or can you get me put in the way of finding out by being told

what books to read, and I will work it out. Let that be my business.

We will settle hereafter in what form my results shall be brought into the

battle. This seems to me the first indispensable practical act -- not of

defence, but of offence.                                  If you only go to prove that

  " For I would not act on the defensive.

you may hold what you do, you will either be smashed by the same

arguments as       smashed        the good   of Tract 90 with      the evil  of or you
will be sorely     tempted        hereafter   dare tnanus and                   can't hold
                                                                   say, 'If
     if

         I
                          it I

                                                              it

                                                                                               '

                                                I
                                                            I

                                                                                                          it,
this here, will go where can hold                   (not that you will ever yield to

that temptation, but that will come, and must be provided against).

But you go steadily on the offensive, say, and you must hold this,

             Consultation with Archdeacon Hare.               375

and proclaim yourself as the champion of the honest and plain meaning

of our formularies, and hurl back the onus probandi on the popular party,

you will frighten them, get a hearing from the unorthodox, and bring

over to your side the great mass who fear change, while they love

and trust their formularies enough to be glad to have the right interpre

tation of them.

  I" was struck the other day by the pleasure which a sermon of mine

gave not only to my clods, but to the best of my high church gentry, in

which sermon I had just copied word for word your Essay on Eternal

Life and Death -- of course stating the thing more coarsely, and there
fore more dangerously, than your wisdom would have let you do -- and

people were       delighted.
 Now forgive       me, a thousand
Iyet"                                        I it,       have seemed to put
                                   times  ask   iIffeel for you. But your

myself up as counsellor. You know what
is

   I
           a
cause mine. We swim in the same boat, and stand or fall henceforth
             am the mouse helping the lion -- with this difference, that
together.

the mouse was outside the net when she gnawed while am inside.
                                               I'
For you are condemned for these opinions                it,
                                                           I
if                                 '               shall and must there

fore avow them."

...."Well, dearest master.                            Eversley, October 30.
                                          shall not condole with you.
it,

       it I I

                      a

               I:

                                  if

                                     it I I

                                                                                   ;

                                              I

                                                                    it
                                                                                a is

                                                                                                      a

                                                                                     it

                                                                :I
                                                                    is I
You are above that but only remind you of this day's Psalms, which

have been to me, strangely enough, the Psalms for the day in all great

crises of my life.
   "Will you please get the correspondence published as soon as

possible, and send me down,        possible by return of post, the whole

of and also Jelf's notice in the Record.           promise you, will do

nothing without consulting better and wiser men than myself; and

will show you all arguments which may write. But the time

now come for those who love you to show their colours, and their

teeth also.   am too unhappy about you to say much. You must

know what feel.   always expected         but yet, when       comes one

cannot face       bit the better. Nevertheless,      but passing storm

of dust."

   He now consulted Archdeacon Hare about protest he went
to Oxford, and wrote to Cambridge. Archdeacon Hare's reply
will show what was proposed, and who were to be taken into

counsel.

     376 Charles Kingsley.

                          FROM ARCHDEACON HARE.

       " MY DEAR MR. KlNGSLEY,                                 ST. LEONARDS', November 10, 1853.

                 " We know from of old that the Seniores Patrum were apt to

     think \hzfunioru inclined to act too precipitately; and it may perhaps
     be this drag of old age that makes me think the plan sketcht in your

last letter somewhat over hasty. Time is an unimportant element in our

     proceedings : two or three months spent in the proper preparations will
     Ifnot injure, and may greatly benefit our cause.
                                                                                we begin with getting

                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                  it,
     a good list of eminent names to head our protest, before we publish

if it  will be sure to command attention, and many will follow such leaders;

     while,  if     be circulated as the act of small number, cry will be raised
                it              a

                                                        :

                                                   a

                                               II
     against as issuing from few latitudinarians, and the priest and the
             it

     scribe will pass by on the other side.it                        should, indeed, be delighted
        Keble were to espouse our cause but
                                                                     remember some sonnets of

his, twenty years ago, on the blessings of the Athanasian Creed, which

     struck me with terror and awe. Being absent from home,                             cannot
                                                                                        I

                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                 I
ascertain how Trench interprets the last parable in Matthew xxv. but

     would fain hope we might have him and he, as one of the Professors
                                                          :

     immediately affected by the recent decision, would rightly take the

lead.                                                                                   When our project

   " Thirl wall writes indignantly of the proceedings.

       further advanced,  will write to him about                                       but he will have to
is                                                                        a
                                                                              it
     if
                                                                                     :
                             a

                      I
                         I
     consider how far Bishop may join                          in    such protest. Stanley might

     con"suTlht omWhpastoenleya,ndwhSoe,dgwficakncyw, ohualsd  already  written on the subject.
                                                               be with   us and perhaps Whewell
                                                                          ;

also", In    our    protest were judiciously drawn                    up.               ground for the step
             the    preamble, we must state the                      immediate

we take, and the fact, not generally known, that our church has im

plicitly sanctioned the exercise of private judgment on this point, by the

     retracting of the 42nd Article.               It     seems to me, too, that we must say

something to remove the primA facie objection, which will strike most
persons, from the Athanasian Creed and think this may be done
                                                               it ;  I

                                                                           a
     without appearing to dogmatize, while will be comfort to numbers to

     hav"eSttahnisletyhorwnasdrianwnChoeusthiroef  their  hearts.    day  :I  know not where he   is
                                                     the  other

     now.                                          " Yours most sin"ceJruellyi,us C. Hare.

        "Since writing the above, have letter from Trench, proposing to
     come to Hurstmonceaux on Tuesday next. It would be great delight

     to us, and would much forward our work, you could meet him there."
                                I

                                               a

                                                 if

                                                                                  a

Correspondence with Thomas Cooper.                                         377

   The following letters to Mr. Thomas Cooper, Chartist, who

wrote the "Purgatory of Suicides" in 1843-4, while imprisoned
in Stafford Gaol on a charge of sedition, though spreading

over several years, will be more interesting if read together

without regard to dates. The corresponding letters that called
them forth are full of power and vigour, and have been kindly
placed by Mr. Cooper at the disposal of the editor, but want of
space prevents their publication. When Mr. Kingsley first knew

Thomas Cooper, he was lecturing on Strauss, in the John Street
Lecture Rooms, to working men ; and after long struggles with

his own sceptical difficulties, as will be seen by these letters, his

doubts were solved, and he became a lecturer on Christianity,

a work he continues now at the age of seventy. He is a man
of vast reading and indomitable courage. His autobiography,
published in 1872, is a remarkable book well worth reading, both
for its own sake and for the pictures of working class life and

thought, which it reveals.*

                                 TO MR. THOMAS COOPER.

                                                                                     EVERSLEY, February 15, 1850.

  I" Many thanks for your paper, f which read with increasing in

terest, as it seems to improve each number. On Theological points

I will say nothing. We must have a good long stand-up fight some
day, when we have wind and time. In the mean time, I will just say,
that I believe as devoutly as you, Goethe, or Strauss, that God never

does -- if one dare use the word, never can-- break the Laws of
Nature, which are His Laws, manifestations of the eternal ideas of
His Spirit and Word --but that Christ's Miracles (not Popish ones)
seem to me the highest realizations of those very laws. How ? you

will ask --to which I answer. You must let me tell you by-and-bye ;
Iin the meantime, recollect that am not altogether an ignoramus
in those Laws of Nature, having devoted, I may say, years of my short

life to the beloved study of zoology, botany, geology, and their cognate

sciences.

  I" like exceedingly your two papers on Whig tactics and Whig

* Life of Thomas Cooper, by himself, published by Hodder and Stoughton,

London.                                         edited by Thomas  Cooper,  chiefly on

  f A weekly paper, "Cooper's Journal,"

the political and social questions of the day.

378 Charles Kingsley.

resolution to take its ease. Is it not written, ' when they shall say peace

and safety, then shall sudden destruction come upon them, as travail on

a woman with child ' (and old England is even now in mighty birth-throes),
' and they shall not escape ? ' Your friend George Hooper's paper,

on France, is both true and eloquent. Your thinkings from Carlyle well
chosen. There is much in Carlyle's ' Chartism ' and the ' French Revolu

tion,' and also in a paper called ' Characteristics,' among the miscellanies,
Iwhich is ' good doctrine and profitable for this age.'
/ p"erFsoornatlhlye                                               cannot say what

                     owe to  that man's writings.       many thanks,  but  let  me
                     notice
                             of our new ' Tailor-dom,'
Isay that have not the honour of having advanced any capital -- having

none to advance. My only help, alas ! has been a pamphlet, ' Cheap

Clothes and Nasty,' which I begged some one to send you. But you

are right, a thousand times right, in saying that it is a more important
move than any Parliamentary one. It is to get room and power for

such works, and not merely for any abstract notions of political right

Ithat fight for the suffrage. I am hard at work-- harder, the doctors

say, than is wise. But ' the days are evil, and we must redeem the time.

Our one chance for all the Eternities, to do a little work in for God, and

Ithe people for whom, as believe, He gave His well-beloved Son. That

is the spring of my work, Thomas Cooper ; it will be yours ; consciously

....or unconsciously it is now, for aught I know, if you be the man I take

you for."

                                                  Eversley, November 2, 1853.

". . . . Work and family illness have kept your kind letter un

answered, with many others, till this leisure morning. As to your

I I' Alderman Ralph,' shall possess myself of a copy when come to

London, and also do myself the pleasure of calling upon you.
I" I am glad you like ' Hypatia.'
                                                  wrote it with my whole heart,
Itrusting that should find at least a few who would read it with their
Iwhole hearts, and
                                have  not  been   disappointed."    (Your Jew in
' Hypatia,' Thomas           Cooper   had  said,  shows me that
                                                                  you understand

me".)Your friend is a very noble fellow. As for converting either you

Ior him, --what want to do, is to make people believe in the Incarna

tion, as the one solution of all one's doubts and fears for all heaven and

Iearth, wherefore should say boldly, that, even if Strauss were right, the

thing must either have happened somewhere else, or will happen some
where some day, so utterly does both my reason and conscience, and, as

I think, judging from history, the reason and conscience of the many in
Iall ages and climes, demand an Incarnation. As for Strauss, have read

                     Strauss and the Gospel.                                                                  379

a great deal of him, and his preface carefully.* Of the latter, I must say

that it is utterly illogical, founded on a gross petitio principii; as for the

Imass of the book, would undertake, by the same fallacious process, to

disprove the existence of Strauss himself, or any other phenomenon in

heaven or earth. But all this is a long story. As long as you do see in

Jesus the perfect ideal of man, you are in the right path, you are going
toward the light, whether or not you may yet be allowed to see certain

consequences which, as I believe, logically follow from the fact of His
being the ideal. Poor ****'s denial (for so I am told) of Jesus being

the ideal of a good man, is a more serious evil far. And yet Jesus
Himself said, ' That if any one spoke a word against the Son of Man (i.e.
against Him as the perfect man) it should be forgiven him ' ; but the man
who could not be forgiven either in this world or that to come, was the

man who spoke against the Holy Spirit, i.e. who had lost his moral sense
and did not know what was righteous when he saw it-- a sin into which

we parsons are as likely to fall as any men, much more likely than the

publicans and sinners. As long as your friend, or any other man loves

       '                                                       if                            my Catholic
                       ' is
                                                                   is
                         it,                                                  it,
                                      a
the good, and does and hates the evil and flees from

creeds tell me that the Spirit of Jesus, the Word,' teaching that man'

and gives me hope that either here or hereafter, he be faithful over                                          a;

few things, he shall be taught much.

   " You see, this quite different view from either the Dissenters or

Evangelicals, or even the High-Church parsons. But                           it              the view of
                                                                                 is

those old Fathers whom they think they honour, and whom they will

find one day, in spite of many errors and superstitions, to be far more
                                                                                                              "
liberal, humane, and philosophical than our modern religionists

                                                                                      Torquay, 1854.
   " must begin my letter by telling you that Mrs. Kingsley has been

very ill, and that that has prevented my writing to you before. We are
I
now at Torquay for her health.                    a.  ..
    II I
· This refers to letter in which Thomas Cooper says, " My friend, noble young
                 I                                         I
                                                                       I
                                      ;
                                    a                                         I
                                                                                                           a
                          IIfellow, says, you are trying to convert him to orthodoxy, and expresses great admira

tion for you.  wish you success with him, and had almost said wish you could next

succeed with me but                      think am likely to stick where have stuck for some years
                                         I

--never lessening, but think increasing,              in"  my  love for the  truly divine    Jesus --but re
taining the Strauss view of the Gospel."                   Ah    that grim   Strauss," he    says in later
                                                             !                                                a
                                                                    it
                                                                        is                                       II

                                                                                          ?

                                                                                  I
letter, "How he makes the iron agony go through my bones and marrow, when

am yearning to get hold of Christ              !  But you understand me      Can you help me?

wish could be near you, so as to have long talk with you often.                              wish you could

show me that Strauss's preface illogical, and that             grounded on a petitio principii.
                                         a
                                           is
wish you could bring me into full and hearty reception of this doctrine of the Incarna
       wish you could lift off the dead weight from my head and heart, that blasting,
tion.
brutifying thought, that the grave must be my 'end all.'

 380 Charles Kingsley.

   I" am now very busy at two things. Working at the sea-animals of

Torbay for my friend, Mr. Gosse, the naturalist, and thundering in behalf
of sanitary reform. Those who fancy me a ' sentimentalist ' and a
' fanatic ' little know how thoroughly my own bent is for physical science ;

how I have been trained in it from earliest boyhood ; how I am happier

now in classifying a new polype, or solving a geognostic problem of
strata, or any other bit of hard Baconian induction, than in writing all

Ithe novels in the world ; or how, again, my theological creed has grown

slowly and naturally out of my physical one, till have seen, and do
believe more and more utterly, that the peculiar doctrines of Christianity
(as they are in the Bible, not as some preachers represent them from the
pulpit) coincide with the loftiest and severest science. This blessed

Ibelief did not come to me at once, and therefore complain of no man

who arrives at it slowly, either from the scientific or religious side ; nor

Ihave I yet spoken out all that is in me, much less all that see coming ;
but I feel that I am on a right path, and please God, I will hold it to the
Iend". see by-the-bye that you have given out two ' Orations against
taking away human life.' I wish you would let me see them. I should
be curious to hear what a man like you says on the point, for I am sure

you are free from any effeminate sentimentalism, and by your counte

nance, would make a terrible and good fighter, in a good cause. It is a

Ipainful and difficult subject. After much thought, have come to the

conclusion that you cannot take away human life. That animal life is
all you take away ; and that very often the best thing you can do for a
poor creature is to put him out of this world, saying, ' You are evidently
unable to get on here. We render you back into God's hands that He
may judge you, and set you to work again somewhere else, giving you

Ia fresh chance as you have spoilt this one.' But speak really in doubt

and awe ; and the next question, about the sin of taking away life except

judicially or in war, is more difficult still. When I have read your
Iopinions will tell you why I think the judicial taking away animal life

to be the strongest assertion of the dignity and divineness of human
life; and the taking away life in wars the strongest assertion of the

Idignity and divineness of national life. Don't answer me yet, though

   know you won't, like our friend * * *. He is a good fellow ; but

he is so saturated with Locke that he cannot view anything except
through the same spectacles which are used by the very persons whom
he denounces ; and till we work clear of Locke and return to Bacon we
shall do no good.

   Thomas Cooper had now re-commenced lecturing at the Hall

                     Letters to Thomas Cooper.                   381

of Science on Sunday evenings, simply teaching theism, for he
had not advanced farther yet in positive conviction.

    "Immediately  "  after I    had obeyed conscience," he says in his
Autobiography,
                     and told  Ithe people had been in the habit of teach
Iing, that I had been wrong, determined to open my mind fully to my

large-hearted friend, Charles Kingsley. He showed the fervent sympathy

of a brother. We began a correspondence which extended over more
I Ithan a year.
                  told him every doubt, and described every hope had ;

he counselled, instructed, and strengthened me to the end
  told him that while diligently read ' Bridgewater Treatises,'
I Iand                                                           and

   "

all the other books with which he furnished me, as a means of beginning

to teach sceptics the truth from the very foundation, that the foundations
Ithemselves seem to glide from under my feet.
                                                 had to struggle against

my own new and tormenting doubts about God's existence, and feared

I should be at last overwhelmed with darkness and confusion of mind.

   " No, no !" said my faithful and intelligent friend. "You will get out

of all doubt in time. When you feel you are in the deepest and

gloomiest doubt, pray the prayer of desperation; cry out, ' Lord, if Thou

Idost exist, let me know that Thou dost exist ! Guide my mind by a

way that know not, into Thy truth,' and God will deliver you."

   At a later period Thomas Cooper writes to say that his lectures

were still going on, and he was beginning to find out that the
spread of scepticism did not rise from the spread of intelligence
among the artizan class as he had thought, but from their dense

ignorance and conceit.

  I" ought to tell you," he says, " that during the last seven
Imonths have gradually been gaining a steady point for my reason,

which my heart always longed to gain, and which for twelve years
commencing with the dark prison period, I lost.
   "  must be truthful. It is too late at fifty-one to assume a mask.

I I. .. have announced for my subjects, for the next two Sunday

nights, at the Hall of Science, City Road, ' An Argument for the Being
of a God, and the Moral Government of the Universe;' and 'An Argu

Iment for a Future State.' Of course have thrown the whole atheistic
Icamp into alarm, and they threaten dreadful battle; but fear not.
I can commit myself cheerfully to the care of the All Father. Con
victions of something more may come. . . . "

To which Mr. Kingsley replied,

382 Charles Kingsley.

    I" want much to know how your Sunday evenings are going on.

Do not be disheartened by opposition. You cannot expect to remove

in a few weeks the prejudices of years ; but every stroke will tell, and

Iseeds will be sown

   " The ignorance
                     which will bear fruit after you are dead.                                   had thought
                     which you speak of amazes me most.

that these men were really tolerably up in popular information. Verily
' the j«^-education of the masses,' except in cases like yours of uncom

mon energy and patience, is a failure. More shame to us parsons not

to have educated them ; but we are, on the whole, trying our best now.

God grant it may not be too late !"

                                   TO THE SAME.

                                                                                   EVERSLEY, September 16, 1855.

    I" Poor **** sent me some time ago a letter of yours which

ought to have answered before, in which you express dissatisfaction with

Ithe 'soft indulgence' which and Maurice attribute to God. I am sure

you mistake us. No men are more ready to say (I at least from ex

perience) that ' it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living

God.' All we say that God just, and rewards every man according
                  is,              is
                          is,
to his work.
    " My belief
                  that God will punish (and has punished already some
what) every wrong thing ever did, unless repent -- that
                               I                                                            I    change my

                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                  if,

                                                                                                                         is,

                                                                                                                       I
behaviour therein and that His lightest blow hard enough to break
                  ;

bone and marrow. But as for saying of any human being whom ever

saw on earth that there no hope for them; that even under the bitter
                               is

smart of just punishment, they opened their eyes to their folly, and

altered their minds, even then God would not forgive them as for say
                                                                                                 I;
ing that will not for all the world, and the rulers thereof.                                     never sawI
    is I
a man in whom there was not some good, and believe that God sees
                                             it

                                                    it I

                                                              is
that good far more clearly, and loves far more deeply, than can,

because He Himself put there, and, therefore,                                                    reasonable to believe
                               it
                                        it,
that He will educate and strengthen that good, and chastise and scourge

the holder of till he obeys and loves and gives up himself to                               it,                               i;t
              it

and that the said holder will find such chastisement terrible enough,

if  he unruly and stubborn, doubt not, and so much the better for
                    it I

                          is
                               a

                               I

                                                          ;

                                          I
him. Beyond this cannot say but like your revulsion into stern
puritan vengeance --
                                   lunge too far the opposite way, like Carlyle's                                             ;

but anything better than the belief that our Lord Jesus Christ was sent

into the  world   to enable bad men to be infinitely rewarded,                                   without doing
anything   worth                                                                                 as well as jus
                   rewarding --anything, oh God of mercy,
          a

                                                                                         !
tice, than creed which strengthens the heart of the wicked, by promising

                           Letters to Thomas Cooper.                                 383

him life, and makes *** **** believe (as I doubt not he does believe)

that though a man is damned here his soul is saved hereafter."

                                                          Farley Court, 1856.

" No words can express the feelings which your last letter has
Iawakened in me.
                                 always expected that the pupils of the Reasoner

were shallow and ill-educated. But you have an awful and glorious work
before you, and you do seem to be going about it in the right spirit --

nam" eDlyo,n'tin   a  spirit of self-humiliation.  humiliation, failure, insult, appa
                  be  down-hearted if outward
rent loss of influence, come out of it at first. If God be indeed our

Father in any real sense, then, whom He loveth He chasteneth, even as
a father the son in whom he delighteth. And ' Till thou art emptied of

thyself, God cannot fill thee,' though it be a saw of the old mystics, is

true and practical common sense. God bless you and prosper you.

  I I" send you all the Bridgewater Treatises which have, and also my

' Glaucus,' if you have it not. Out of it you may get a few hints. Have

you read Plato ? He is so easily readable in Bonn's cheap translation.

Oh for a Socratic method and spirit brought to bear on those men ! It

would be as charming to them as new. They don't know what reasoning
Imeans.
                  often think that (in spiritual matters) no one can who has
not read Plato. But it is not so. Every wise man is Socratic at heart,

because his is the true inductive Baconian method, just as Mr. Jourdain
talk"eAd llpmroasennearll
                           his life without  knowing it.  a proselyte  of you : but  you
                                             try to make
                           of fanatics will
Iare not, hope, going to vex yourself with them, any more than to be

cajoled by them. Go your own way, and believe only what you do and
Ican believe. The way to true light is a long ladder ; and
                                                                        am low

                  :

                    if

                            it,
enough down on to be able to reach hand to you now and then
                                             I                          it.
                                                               a                          ;

                                                       in/
perhaps you may be higher than even now spirit, and more able to

help me up                 so, better for you that you should not know

                                                                        1856.

If" Your letter this morning delighted me, for see that you see.

you are an old hand at the Socratic method, you will be saved much

trouble.          can quite understand young fellows kicking at it. Plato
          I

                               a
always takes care to let us see how all but the really earnest kicked at             (I it,

and flounced off in rage, having their own notions torn to rags, and

scattered, but nothing new put in the place thereof. It seems to me

speak really humbly here) that the danger of the Socratic method, which
issued, two or three generations after in making his so-called pupils the

384 Charles Kingsley.

academics mere destroying sceptics, priding themselves on picking holes

in everything positive, is this --to use it without Socrates' great Idea,

which he expressed by ' all knowledge being memory,' which the later

Platonists, both Greek and Jew, e.g., Philo and St. John, and after them

the good among the Roman stoics and our early Quakers, and German

mystics, expressed by saying that God, or Christ, or the Word, was more

or less in every man, the Light which lightened him. Letting alone

Iformal phraseology, what mean, and what Socrates meant, was this,

to confound people's notions and theories, only to bring them to look

their own reason in the face, and to tell them boldly, you know these

things at heart already, if you will only look at what you know, and

clear from your own spirit the mists which your mere brain and ' organi

sation and truth,' has wrapt round them. Men may be at first more angry

than ever at this ; they will think you accuse them of hypocrisy when
Iyou tell them ' you know that
                                        am  right,  and  you wrong    '  but it will
                                                                    :

do them good at last. It will bring them to the one great truth, that

they too have a Teacher, a Guide, an Inspirer, a Father : that you are

not asserting for yourself any new position, which they have not attained,

but have at last found out the position which has been all along equally

true of them and you, that you are all God's children, and that your

Father's Love is going out to seek and to save them and you, by the

only possible method, viz., teaching them that He is their Father.

   " I am very anxious to hear your definition of a person. I have not

been able yet to get one, or a proof of personal existence which does

not spring from a priori. subjective consciousness, and which            is,  in fact,

Fichte's.      am I.' know   it.        Take away my organisation,' cast my
           I I'      it                             it
body to the crows or the devil, logically or physically, strip me of allis '
                       is I
which makes me palpable to you, and to the universe, still have the
                                                                    I

unconquerable knowledge that am and must and shall be so for: I,'
                                 a it I'
ever. How get this Idea know not but                          the most precious of
                             is I
all convictions, as        the first; and can only suppose that     it        a reve
                                          I
                                                                        is

lation from God, whose image            is       me, and the first proof of my
                                             in

being His child. My spirit              person and the child of the Absolute
                                                 ;

person, the Absolute spirit. And so, young coxcombs,                     yours, and
                                                                    is
                                                                          is
yours, and yours. In saying that, go on Analogy,' which Butler's
                                   ; II             '
word for fair Baconian induction.
                                                      I
                                                         I
                                                 find that am absolutely      is I,  an

individual and indissoluble person therefore am bound to believe at

first sight that you, and you, and you are such also and to verify that
                                                              ;

hypothesis hereafter by such experiments as can make. This all                       I
                                                    I

seem to know about as yet.                wish you'd tell me your definition.
                     it            I

Lange, in his noble Leben Jesu (an answer to Strauss on the same
Hegelian grounds which Strauss took up), has two introductory chapters

                                    Induction and Science.                                          385

which you must some day read. He (deriving person from persona, a
mask -- a character in a play --at last an office, or functionary of any
sort) says that the true idea of a person is a being inspired by God,
and called by Him to a certain function in His world, persona per

quam sonat spiritus, through whom God's spirit speaks. Curious, and

pos"siBbulet. how utterly right you are in beginning to teach the real meaning
of words, which people now (parsons as well as atheists) use in the

loosest way. Take even ' organisation,' paltry word as it and make

them analyse and try they can give any definition of (drawn from
its real etymology) which does not imply person distinct from the
   I                                if         a
                                                             ;
          I                                a
                                                                  ' it
                      it,                                                it ' is is,

                                                                              a
                                                                                   a
organs, or tools, and organising or arranging those tools with mental

view to a result."                                                                           right at

   " should advise you to stick stoutly by old Paley. He

root, and should advise you, too, to make your boast of Baconian

Induction being on your side, and not on theirs for many man
talks of Robin Hood who never shot in his bow,' and the Reasoner'

party, while they prate about the triumphs of science, never, seems to
me, employ intentionally in single sentence the very inductive method

whereby that science has triumphed. But these things perhaps you

kno"wFoars  well as  I.
            the end
                           of your  letter.   Be of good cheer.  When the wicked

man turneth from his wickedness (then, there and then), he shall save
his soul alive -- as you seem to be consciously doing, and all his sin and

his iniquity shall not be mentioned unto him. What your 'measure' of

guilt       there can be measure of the incommensurable spiritual)
         (if                                                                                        ;

                      I                                                                               I
                                      a
know not. But this know, that as long as you keep the sense of guilt

alive in your own mind, you will remain justified in God's mind as

long as you set your sins before your face, He will set them behind His

back. Do you ask how know that                will not quote texts,' though
         S.                                   ?

          I                                     I
                  ' :I I
                           I                              a

                                                                                          '

                                                                                  is
there are dozens.                   will not quote my own spiritual experience, though

I  could honestly                   will only say, that such moral law                       implied in

the very idea of Our Father in heaven.'

   " P.      have ordered 'Glaucus' to be sent you.              wish you would
                                              '
consider especially pp. 69-80, 95-7, 100-103.
                                                I
                                                        II
                                               send you also Harvey's

sea-side book, that you may read up the Echinus.'                       think a lecture

simply on the Echinus would astonish weak minds more utterly than
            II                      '
anything                'can guess at.        could help you to all facts. As for
                                 ?    is

                                       aaI
specimens, could send you few. But do you know Dr. Carpenter,

at University Hall He                         good man, full of desire to teach workmen

wisdom, and knows the 'Echini' better than any man on earth. He

       VOL.  i.                                                                              c
                                                                                                 c

386 Charles Kingsley.

might help you to facts and specimens better than I. But think it
over. Can you make drawings ? Again, have you Hugh Miller's in
valuable ' Footprints of the Creation,' a corroboration of Paley against
the ' Vestiges ' drawn principally from the geology of his favourite Old
Red Sandstone fishes? You will find it useful beyond any modern
book. Also, you must get a sight of Owen's new collection of his

Lectures.

   " My father wants to know if you have ever seen old Mendelssohn's
(the musician's grandfather) Answer to an Atheist at Hamburgh. I

have heard that the book is highly valuable. Do you know ' Kant's

Theodicy?' It reveals A Being; but hardly a Father. . . . ."

   Through the exertions of his friends, Thomas Cooper was now
given copying work at the Board of Health, of which the Rt.
Hon. William Cowper was then President : his hearers at the
Hall of Science, already made bitter by his deserting the atheist

camp, made the fact of his doing government work and taking
government pay a fresh ground of opposition to his teaching,
and Mr. Kingsley writes :

                                                                      Eversley, March 27, 1856.
   " Be of good cheer. No man ever tried to sweep the devil's dust

Ifout without being somewhat choked at first ; but you will conquer.

I can be of any use to you, in any way, let me know ; for as for

allowing you really to suffer for these jackanapes (un-English as they

are in their frivolity and conceit), it shall not be.

  I" Why be shy of work from whomsoever it comes? yet can appre
ciate your feeling. Only I would advise strongly that you should

conquer;        however honourable to you. Never mind what silly lads

If(who would be glad to have their own mouths stopped by governmentI
pay) may say.it,         the government of England  not perfect,
                         it
                                                     is

                                                 I is
                                                                                  a
                                                                           it
                                                                                is
at least not so abominably unrighteous, forsooth, that an honest man

need shrink from taking pay from for doing non-political work. As

reasonably might stonemason refuse to work at the Houses of Parlia
                a
                      a
ment because Tory minister might some day have the upper hand in

them and be sure this will lead to something better, and       perhaps

meant only as test of your being inclined to pull in harnessa
   " But you must come and see me, and talk over many things.
                                                                  That

is  what want. An evening's smoke and chat in my den, and morn

ing's walk on our heather moors, would bring our hearts miles nearer

each other, and our heads too. As for the political move,  can give

                        Working in Harness.                                                                        387

Iyou no advice save, say little, and do less. am ready for all extensions
ifof the franchise,
                     we have a government system of education therewith :
Itill then am merely stupidly acquiescent. More poor and ignorant
voters ? Very well -- more bribees ; more bribers ; more pettifogging

attornies in parliament ; more local interests preferred to national ones ;

Imore substitution of the delegate system for the representative one.

suppose it ought to be so. Something will come of it. But the chicken

will be a very queer and unexpected looking one, when it breaks the

shell."

                                                            RECTORY, CHELSEA, June 14, 1856.

  I" called and asked for you at the Board of Health, but you were

away ! You must not give up to low spirits -- wait awhile, and all

will be right. Get into harness, become a habitue of the place, get

every one's good word, and in six months you will be found out to be a
' valuable man ;' and then, in due time, you may say what you like --

and rise to something really worth having.

   " It know low aim don't mean morally) for a man who
         iIs,
              I

                           it,
                              a

                                    (I

                                                                                   ;
has had the aspirations which you have but may not Our Heavenly

Father just be bringing you through this seemingly degrading work, to
give you what should think you never had, --what
sorrow to learn -- the power of working in harness,                                                cost me kbitter
                                                                                                 and so actually
                                                                                      if it
drawing something, and being of real use. Be sure,                                               you can once
                                                                                              a
                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                         is
learn that lesson, in addition to the rest you have learnt, you will rise

to something worthy of you yet. My dear Cooper, you are very clever

man. But-- don't you think that the God who made you as fully

aware of that fact as you or           And                                            not probable that He only
              it

                            I

                                                ?

                                                       is
                                                      it
keeping your powers seemingly useless, till you have learned to use

them  ?  Now  has seemed to me, in watching you and your books,

and your life, that just what you wanted was self-control.                                             don't mean
                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                              ;
that you could not starve, die piece-meal, for what you thought right

for you are a brave man, and you had not been, you would not have
                        it

                                   if
been alive now. But did seem to me, that what you wanted was the

quiet, stern cheerfulness, which sees that things are wrong, and sets to

to right them, but does trying to make the best of them all the while,
                        ' it

                                  ;
and to see the bright side and even as often happens, there be no
                                              ?' if,
bright side to see, still possesses his soul in patience,' and sits whistlinga

and"  working till the' pit be  digged for the                                        ungodly.'
      Don't be angry    with    me and turn                                           round and
                                                                                                 say,  c'  You, sir,

who never knew what     it           was to want                                      meal in your life, who

belong to the successful class who have. What do you mean by

preaching these cold platitudes to me                                                 For, Thomas Cooper, have
                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                           c

                                                                                                                2

388 Charles Kingsley.

known what it was to want things more precious to you, as well as to

IIme, than a full stomach ; and learnt -- or rather am learning a little

-- to wait for them till God sees good. And the man who wrote ' Alton

Locke' must know a little of what a man like you could feel to a man

Ilike me, if the devil entered into him. And yet tell you, Thomas

Cooper, that there was a period in my life -- and one not of months,

but for years, in which I would have gladly exchanged your circum-

stantia, yea, yourself, as it is now, for my circumstantia, and myself, as

they were then. And yet I had the best of parents and a home, if

I Inot luxurious, still as good as any man's need be. You are a far
happier man now,                 firmly believe, than                            was for years of my life.

The dark cloud has past with me now. Be but brave and patient, and

(I will swear now), by God, sir ! it will pass with you."

                                                                                      June 25, 1856.

  II" have had a sad time, for a dear friend has died suddenly, or

Iwould have both written again to you, and called again ; but could not

recollect your exact address, and could not get it at the Board of Health,

Iand meanwhile this trouble came, and had to exert myself for a poor

dear man left with a family of young folk, and utterly broken hearted.

IYou are in the right way yet. can put you in no more right way. Your
                                                       suppose, simple consciousness of
sense of sin is not fanaticism ; it            I iIs,

fact. As for helping you to Christ, do not believe can one inch.
                                                                                 a            :

                                                                                   I                  if I
see no hope but in prayer, in going to Him yourself, in saying Lord

Thou art there, Thou art at all, this all be not lie, fulfil Thy reputed
                       I if                 if

promises, and give me peace and the sense of forgiveness, and the

feeling that bad as may be, Thou lovest me still, seeing all, understand

ing all, and therefore making allowances for all                                 !    have had to do that

                                                                                   I

in past days to challenge Him through outer darkness and the silence
                   I;
of night, till almost expected that He would vindicate His own honour

by appearing visibly as He did to St. Paul and St. John but He answered
in  "thReesatdill                                      is
                                             that                      ;
                    small voice  only yet     but  was enough.
                   the book by   all means         the book will not
                                 is         ;                                         reveal  Him.  He

                                         ;
is not in the book He in the heaven which as near you and me as the;
air we breathe, and out of that He must reveal Himself; -- neither priests

nor books can conjure him up, Cooper. Your Wesleyan teachers taught
you, perhaps, to look for Him in the book, as Papists would have in the

bread and when you found He was not in the book, you thought Him
    ;
          ;

                it,
                           is

                                                                              a
nowhere but He bringing you out of your first mistake and idolatry,

ay, through            and through all wild wanderings since, to know Him

Himself, and speak face to face with Him as man speaks with his friend.

                             Argument from Design.                                            389

Have patience with Him. Has He not had patience with you ? And

therefore have patience with all men and things ; and then you will rise

aga"inAsinfoHriswogroldodly  time the  stouter for your long battle.                 but  to  trust
                             matters,  there is nothing to be done now,

God to give you the right work in His own good time. He has, you

see, given you anchorage-ground when you fancied yourself utterly
adrift. Oh, trust this earnest of His care, and ' wait on Providence.'

Men may misuse that expression into Micawber's cant, but there is an
                              In such work as God doing with you, He
everlasting truth in
           a it                                                                   is

                               it.                                                             I
                                               ;
                                                                                                                      a
                                  Ia
will have all His own way, so that you shall have no chance of mis

taking from whom the blessing comes.                                                      should
   " Write again soon. Your letters are always pleasant to me.

have answered this before but have been living for three days on

vault, and funeral, and the sight of utter woe.

                                                                                  Eversley, September 10, 1856.

" am truly glad to hear that you are going to preach once more.
I

        a

        I
                                   ;
                                        a
                                           it
                                                                               ;
Your subjects look most hopeful and they must do good.                                    believe
                                                                                     aI
that Holyoake's lads have never had the positive side fairly put before
                                                                                               ;
them, either on moral or on scientific grounds. To me the inductive

argument, from design (Paley's watch), must carry conviction to every

unprejudiced mind as fact, has done so in every age and clime, to

-\oi>» of the human race, an inductive proof in time, of its being sound

argument.  don't think that, stoutly and even pedantically asserting

yourself to be going on Baconian Induction (as you would be), you need                                           is is
fear saying that on Bacon's method (applied to metaphysic) there

always vast probability that what everybody believes must be true and
then expose the self-contradiction of those who in one breath cry up

human nature, and man as the measure of all things, and in the next

deny the very conclusions to which human nature in all ages and

countries has been tending, and often has arrived at.

   " For yourself, my dear friend, the secret of life for you and for me,
to lay our purposes and characters continually before Him who made

them, and cry, Do Thou purge me, and so alone                                        shall be clean.
          if                                                                      I
                           '
Thou requirest truth in the inward parts. Thou wilt make me to underif
                          it
stand wisdom secretly.' What more rational belief? For surely there
                                                                                          if

be any God, and He made us at first, He who makes can also mend

His own work,                 get out of gear. What more miraculous in the

doctrines of regeneration and renewal, than in the mere fact of creation

at all?    any one ask, are you fulfilling the duties of which you speak                                         ?
   " And

390 Charles Kingsley.

IAnswer boldly as I have had to do to my own people -- ' And what if
Iam not ? I am at least trying ; and to me my very sins of practice

Iprove more and more that am right in theory ; for find that all

misery, helplessness, self-contradiction in me comes simply from my not

Ifulfilling; from choosing the evil while see the good.' One honest

confession of this kind works more, by human sympathy, on one's

hearers, than years of inhuman (and hypocritical) assumption of papal

infallibility and perfection.                                                                            It will

  I" am glad to hear you are regularly at work at the Board.
lead to something better, doubt not ; and if it be dry drudgery, after all,

some of the greatest men who have ever lived (perhaps almost all) have
had their dull collar-work of this kind, which after all was useful in
Ikeeping mind and temper in order.
                                          have a good deal of                                            and find
                                          a
most blessed and useful."                            a
it                                                            a
                                                                           ;EVERSLEY, Septemkr 23, 1856.
   I
                                                                         ' it,
   " send you two sermons preached to my people last Sunday.
think they will show you more of my thoughts about Him than any
                        is                                                                               'I
desultory scribble.
                          aI
   " As for ****, Be not afraid of their terror, but worship the LordI
      ''
God in your heart.' He     poor ignorant man, with certain vulpine

acuteness, but shallow (as far as have seen) as saucer and for that
very reason popular. But don't fancy for moment that his Nature

and Necessity are anything but paper giants, phantasms of the'

imagination, which fade and vanish before the very same destructive

analysis by which he pretends to destroy your God. He can, by

that destructive analysis, expose  a  probable fallacy, in any defini

tion of God. So can you by the same weapons in any definition

of Nature.

   " But here you (and Paley) stand on better ground than he--that

when you have both picked each other bone from bone, you can turn

round on him, and say, Now, Dialectic, having destroyed your words

Cause and Necessity, and Law and Nature,' what have you
'

    I?
                '
                                 '

                        I
                                                                         '
                                                                                                      '

                                                  I'
left Nothing. But destroy, or seem to destroy, any and every term                                        I

use, am just where was before. For you have not touched the

broad ground of general Induction (the only scientific method of ap

proaching natural phenomena), from which                                                                 started, viz., there are

organisms in the universe. We know from experience that men, persons,

minds, (call them what you will), can create organisms more or less,
by design, and we have no evidence that any other cause can. There

fore by fair induction, we, with the vast majority of the human race, are

scientifically just in saying, Therefore                reasonable to suppose, as
                           '

                                             it
                                                    is

                             Plato versus Locke.                                  391

our first inductive guess, that the more perfect organisms of nature (as
a flower or an animal is more perfect than a fiddle or a steam-
engine), were likewise created -- at least constructed by a more perfect
person, mind, being, man if you will. Leave alone as yet the
question of the ' Eternity of Matter ; ' leave alone the question of
God's anthropomorphism -- even of God's moral righteousness-- all

that must come after ; but stick to this, and stick it into him. Is not

the first Induction on my side, viz., that by all experience there is a

probability that the world must have been made by an Infinite Man, if

you will ? Hammer away at that, and try, too, to pay him out in his

own coin. Try and pick to pieces, by such word-splitting dialectic

as Socrates used, his trashy abstractions ' Nature, Law, Necessity,' and

make him confess that the law by which a grain of sand is a grain of
sand, if it be material (as it must, if nothing but matter exist), must have
extension, weight, &c., and a material place within that grain of sand;
but if not, then it is either nothing, and there is no law of nature, or

immaterial, and then there is more than matter in the universe. On

Locke's nominalist philosophy, you can't do this. On Plato's realism
Iyou can. I am working out in detail a specimen of what
                                                                            mean for

your use. I'll send it you in a day or two."

                                                         EVERSLEY, December 4, 1856.

I" Your letter is very cheering ; I wish could tell you as much about
                       as I
pro"bBaubtil,itifeosr        can about natural history.  up  not only Cuvier,     but all
                       the
                             zoology, I will bring you
the books I can think of. Have you Hiiber on the bee ? It is old,
Ibut good.
                       will bring you Kirby and Spence's entomology, where you
Iwill find wonders on bees and ants. Moreover, I can help you, think,

with geological books. Have you read Hitchcock, who is making a noise
now ? and did you ever see a ' Boy's Dream of Geology ' ? But the

most important book for you is Sedgwick's ' Notes to his University

Studies,' containing his refutation of the ' Vestiges of Creation.' I come

to town the 10th, and must have some talks with you, for now that we

are got upon my ground of Natural History, I think I could do more to

help you in one talk than in three letters. A Lecture on Physical

Geography, as showing God's providence and care of man, might be
effective. Do you know ' Guyot's Earth and Man ' ? an admirable book,
I Iwhich can bring.
                             am going to get you Agassiz's opening lecture to

the British Association this year, which will be quite invaluable to you.
                                                                       '
Borrow from some one         Orr's  ' Circle  of the         Sciences    :  with  Owen's

'Tractate on Physiology.'"

392 Charles Kings ley.

                                                   EVERSLEV, April 3, 1857.

" Go on and prosper.* Let me entreat you, in broaching Christianity,

to consider carefully the one great Missionary sermon on record, viz ,
St. Paul's at Athens. There ' the Atonement,' in its sense of a death

to avert God's anger, is never mentioned. Christ's Kingship is his

theme ; the Resurrection, not the death, the great fact. Oh, begin by

insisting, as I have done in the end of ' Hypatia,' on the Incarnation as

morally necessary, to prove the goodness of the Supreme Being. Insist

on its being the Incarnation of Him who had been in the world all
along. Insist on His 'revealing the Father,' by showing that His
character was God's character. Pray read Maurice on the Gospel of

St. John. The old Calvinistic view of the Atonement is indefensible,
and will revolt them : better omit the death even, except as (what the
                       the means to the resurrection, and the proof of perfect
Apostles heldI
                  it)
sympathy with all human ill, and of perfect resignation to the Father.
Do bear in mind that you have to tell them of The Father-- Their
Father -- of Christ, as manifesting that Father; and all will go well.

God    bless you           of future  punishment,  should have good deal to
   "  On the question              it
                                       is
                                               it,

                                                  I

                                                                                      a

                                                                                                                   9,
say to you.          believe that     the crux to most hearts."

                                      56, MARINA, ST. LEONARDS, May 1857.

" About endless torment. (Keep that expression distinct from eternal,

which has been mixed up with              the former being what the popular

cre"ed1.  really holds.)    You may say,
            Historically,
                           that,
" a. The doctrine occurs nowhere in the Old Testament,
                                                                 or any hint

of The expression, in the end of Isaiah, about the fire unquenched,
it.
and the worm not dying, plainly of the dead corpses of men upon theb.
physical earth, in the valley of Hinnom, or Gehenna, where the offal of
                            is
                                                       it
                                                                 a

                                                                                     it
                                                                                                 is
Jerusalem was burned perpetually.         Enlarge on this, as                                                          the

passage which our Lord quotes, and by the meaning of His words

must be primarily determined.
   " The doctrine of endless torment was, as historical fact, brought

back from Babylon by the Rabbis. It was a very ancient primary

doctrine of the Magi, an appendage of their fire-kingdom of Ahriman,

and may be found in the old Zends, long prior to Christianity.

"* T. Cooper had written to say that he had now begun the " grand contest."                                            God

has been so good to me that must confess Christ, and we shall have greater rage now
I
                         I
that have come to Christianity."

                                   Endless Punishment.                                     393

"           St.   Paul accepts     nothing of it as far as we  can tell, never making
    c.

the least allusion to the doctrine.
   " d. The Apocalypse simply repeats the imagery of Isaiah, and of our

Lord ; but asserts, distinctly, the non-endlessness of torture, declaring

that in the consummation, not only death, but Hell, shall be cast into

the Lake of Fire.
   " e. The Christian Church has never really held it exclusively, till

now. It remained quite an open question till the age of Justinian, 530,

and significantly enough, as soon as 200 years before that, endless

torment for the heathen became a popular theory, purgatory sprang up
synchronously by the side of as a relief for the conscience and reason
                                   it,
of the Church.                         it  has been an open question in the

  "/ Since the Reformation,
English Church, and the philosophical Platonists, of the 16th and 17th

centuries, always considered as such.
                                   it

"g. The Church of England, by the deliberate expunging of the 42nd

Article, which affirmed endless punishment, has declared                          authorita
                                                         I,
tive"lyh. to  be    open.
                    so, in                                                    it
            it, It          fact.  Neither Mr. Maurice,        or any others, who have

denied          iscan be dispossessed or proceeded against legally in any way

wh"atsEoxeevgeert.ically, you may say,     think, a. That the meanings of the
                                        I
                                           I
word aliiv and aldvws have little or nothing to do with
                                                         ?          even                   alav

                                                                        it,
                                                                                        a

                                                                               if
be derived from id always, which greatly doubt. The word never

used in Scripture anywhere else, in the sense of endlessness (vulgarly
is
                            always meant, both in Scripture and out, period
                         6

                      It
called eternity).
of time. Else, how could have plural-- how could you talk of the
                                   it
                                                  a

aeons, and aeons of aeons, as the Scripture does               Nay, more, how talk

of ovros            alwv, which the translators, with laudable inconsistency,

have translated 'this world,' i.e., this present state of things, 'Age,'
'dispensation,' or epoch -- atavws, therefore, means, and must mean,

belonging to an epoch, or the epoch, and aUivuis koXoo-u the punishment
aI
             it, a a
                     is
                                   it,
                                                             in
                                                                                         is
                                                                                               it,
                                                                                                               S.
                                                                                                                      S.
                                                                                                        it
allotted to that epoch. Always bear mind, what Maurice insists on,
-- and what
                    so plain to honest readers,-- that our Lord, and the

Apostles, always speak of being in the end of an age or aeon, not as

ushering in new one. Come to judge and punish the old world, and

to create           new one out of its ruins, or rather as the                    better

expresses to burn up the chaff and keep the wheat, i.e. all the elements

of food as seed for the new world.
   " think you may say, that our Lord took the popular doctrine

because He found                   and tried to correct and purify  and put

on really moral ground. You may quote the parable of Dives and

394 Charles Kingsley.

Lazarus (which was the emancipation from the Tartarus theory) as the
one instance in which our Lord professedly opens the secrets of the next
world, that He there represents Dives as still Abraham's child, under no

despair, not cut off from Abraham's sympathy, and under a direct moral
training, of which you see the fruit. He is gradually weaned from the

selfish desire of indulgence for himself, to love and care for his brethren,

a divine step forward in his life, which of itself proves him not to be
lost. The impossibility of Lazarus getting to him, or vice versd, ex

presses plainly the great truth, that each being where he ought to be at

that time, interchange of place (i.e., of spiritual state) is impossible. But
it says nothing against Dives rising out of his torment, when he has

learnt the lesson of and going where he ought to go. The common
                is
                          it,

                                      '
interpretation  merely arguing in circle, assuming that there are but
                                         in '
two states of the dead, Heaven and Hell,' and then trying at once toit, a

interpret the parable by the assumption, and to prove the assumption'
                                                          '
from the parable. Next, you may say that the English damnation, like

the Greek Kardicpura, perhaps icpiW simple, simply means condemna
           is

                  I
                            is
tion, and       (thank God) retained in that sense in various of our

formularies, where always read eg., eateth to himself damnation,'

with sincere pleasure, as protests favour of the true and rational meaning

of the word, against the modern and narrower meaning.
   " You may say that Fire and Worms, whether physical or spiritual,

must in all logical fairness be supposed to do what fire and worms do

do, viz., destroy decayed and dead matter, and set free its elements to

enter into new organisms that, as they are beneficent and purifying
is
            it
                  is

                              it
                                  is

                                                          ;
                                                                 '

                                                                      is
                                                                          a

                                                                                                is
                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                                                    '

                                                                                                   it is
agents in this life, they must be supposed such in the future life, and
that the conception of fire as an engine of torture,
                                                             an unnatural

use of that agent, and not to be attributed to God without blasphemy,
unless you suppose that the suffering (like all which He inflicts)
intended to teach man something which he cannot learn elsewhere.

   " You may say that the catch, All sin deserves infinite punishment,

because         against an Infinite Being,'                  worthless amphiboly, using

the word infinite in two utterly different senses, and being mere play

on sound. That  directly contradicted by Scripture, especially by

our Lord's own words, which declare that every man (not merely the
wicked) shall receive the due reward of his deeds, that he who, &c.,
shall be beaten with few stripes, and so forth. That the words He

shall not go out till he has paid the uttermost farthing,' evidently imply
(unless spoken in cruel mockery) that he may go out then, and that

   scandalous for Protestants to derive from thence the opposite doctrine,

while they call the Papists rogues for proving the perpetual virginity of
the B. V. Mary from exactly the same use of rur.

The Fire of God.  395

    " Finally, you may call on them to rejoice that there is a fire of
God the Father whose name is Love, burning for ever unquenchably,
to destroy out of every man's heart and out of the hearts of all

nations, and off the physical and moral world, all which offends and

makes a lie. That into that fire the Lord will surely cast all shams,

lies, hypocrisies, tyrannies, pedantries, false doctrines, yea, and the

men who love them too well to give them up, that the smoke of

their /iao-m/ter/idr (i.e., the torture which makes men confess the truth,
for that is the real meaning of it ; Paoavuriios means the touch-stone
by which gold was tested) may ascend perpetually, for a warning

and a beacon to all nations, as the smoke of the torment of French

aristocracies, and Bourbon dynasties, is ascending up to Heaven and
has been ever since 1793. Oh, Cooper-- Is it not good news that that
fire is unquenchable ; that that worm will not die ? They tried, we tried

in our ignorance, to quench that fire when we put Louis XVIII. on the

throne. But the fire burned up him and our chaffy works. The parti
pretre tried to kill the worm which was gnawing at their hearts, making
them dimly aware that they were wrong, and liars, and that God and His

universe were against them, and that they and their system were rotting
and must die. And they put poor Poerios and Madiais in prison, and
show all the signs of weak terror, suspicion, spite : but they cannot kill
God's worm, Thomas Cooper. You cannot look in the face of many

a working continental priest without seeing that the worm is at his heart.
You cannot watch their conduct without seeing that it is at the heart of
their system. God grant that we here in England -- we parsons (dissenting

and church) may take warning by them. The fire may be kindled for
us. The worm may seize our hearts. To judge by the temper of the
 ' Record ' and the ' Morning Advertiser,' it has its fangs in some of our

hearts already. God grant that in that day we may have courage to let

the fire and the worm do their work--to say to Christ, These too are

thine, and out of thine infinite love they have come. Thou requirest

Itruth in the inward parts, and will thank Thee for any means, however
Ibitter, which Thou usest to make me true. want to be an honest man,

and a right man ! And, oh joy, Thou wantest me to be so also. Oh

joy, that though I long cowardly to quench Thy fire, I cannot do

 Purge us, therefore, oh Lord, though be with fire. Burn up the chaff
of vanity and self-indulgence, of hasty prejudices, second-hand dogmas,
-- husks which do not feed my soul, with which cannot be content, of
which feel ashamed daily -- and there be any grains of wheat in me,

 any word or thought or power of action which may be of use as seed
for my nation after me, gather oh Lord, into Thy garner.

     " Yes, Thomas Cooper. Because believe in God of Absolute and
I

                                            it,

                                    if

                                 I it
                                              aI

                                                                                                                              it.

396 Charles Kingsley.

Unbounded Love, therefore I believe in a Loving Anger of His, which

will and must devour and destroy all which is decayed, monstrous, abor
tive in His universe, till all enemies shall be put under His feet, to be

pardoned surely, if they confess themselves in the wrong, and open their
eyes to the truth. And God shall be All in All.

   " Those last are wide words. It is he who limits them, not I who
accept them in their fulness, who denies the verbal inspiration of

Scripture.

" P.S. When you talk to them on the Trinity, don't be afraid of

say"inTghetwyowtihllingsasy. ' Three in One ' is contrary to sense and experience.

Answer, that is your ignorance. Every comparative anatomist will tell

you the exact contrary ; that among the most common, though the most

puzzling phenomena is multiplicity in unity. Divided life in the same

individual of every extraordinary variety of case. That distinction of

persons with unity of individuality (what the old schoolmen properly
called substance) is to be met with in some thousand species of animals,
e.g., all the compound polypes, and that the soundest physiologists, like

Huxley, are compelled to talk of these animals in metaphysic terms just

as paradoxical as, and almost identical with, those of the theologian.

Ask them then, whether, granting one primordial Being who has con

ceived and made all other beings, it is absurd to suppose in Him, some

law of multiplicity in unity, analogous to that on which He has con

structed so many millions of His creatures             Never fancy that you

trouble my temper by asking me; my heart and soul, conscience and

intellect you do, and bitterly; all the better for me.  ' Yeast,'      and  in  the

   " I have said my say on the Trinity in the end of
Iend of 'Hypatia.' The argument I used in 'Hypatia' is the same that
used in my letter. A son implies, in the perfect ideal, the like of its

parent. The express image of his person. If the one be eternal and
Ialmighty, so the other. Good and loving, so the other. have no more
to say. If I had I would. Write again ; your letters are good for me.

They    bring  me  low,  and  make  me  feel  my  own  ignorance  and  presump
tion           "

                                                  ST. LEONARDS, May 20, 1857.

" I have been silent, not because I have forgotten.               I have been
Ithinking earnestly on your letter, and this is a fragment of what

think.
" Your anecdotes of Romaine and Clarke, &c., are new to me, but not
Isurprising, and most significant.
                                        can understand well how men, who

Demand of Heart and Reason for the Trinity. 397

considered the business of life to be the delivering men from a fancied
Tartarus, to save them from God in fact -- who intended to move them
into endless torture, were quite unable to conceive of the Son as the

express image of the Father. How could He be, if the Father intended

to damn, and the Son to save ? Thus the Godhead of the Son became

to them a necessary part of their scheme of redemption, only because
unless He were God, His ' satisfaction ' and His ' merits ' would not be

' infinite,' and the Trinity became a mere function of the ' scheme of

Ired"emThptision,'    that  again being a function of ' the fall.'  among  the  evan
                    have    seen long, having been brought up
Igelicals ; but never knew that their old prophets had stated it so
naively. But see what follows -- what has followed in Geneva and Ger
many -- what followed with you -- when the Tartarus and the doctrine of

vicarious satisfaction became incredible, then the Divinity of Christ, be
coming unnecessary, fell to the ground likewise -- and socinianism, and at
last deism, followed as a matter of course. Think this out for yourself.

It is historically as well as logically, true.

  I" Now with me. As have told you, my reason demands a co-equal

and co-eternal Son, in order that He may be an ideal and absolute Son
at all. Adam Clarke's " eternal generation being eternal nonsense," is a

very rash, foolish, ignorant speech ; but pardonable to a man of Locke's

school, and therefore unable to conceive of an ever-present and unceas

ing eternity, but referring all things to the conditions of time-- unable to

conceive that an eternal generation means an ever-present and unceasing
one, by which the Father saith at every and all moments of time, ' Thou

art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.' It is this Lockism which

infects all our pulpits, which makes even educated men unable to un

derstand Maurice.

   " But my heart, Cooper, demands the Trinity, as much as my reason.

I want to be sure that God cares for us, that God is our Father, that God
has interfered, stooped, sacrificed Himself for us. I do not merely want

to love Christ -- a Christ, some creation or emanation of God's-- whose

I Iwill and character, for aught know, may be different from God's.

want to love and honour the absolute, abysmal God Himself, and none
other will satisfy me --and in the doctrine of Christ being co-equal and
co-eternal, sent by, sacrificed by, His Father, that He might do His

Father's will, I find it--and no puzzling texts, like those you quote, shall

rob me of that rest for my heart, that Christ is the exact counterpart of
Him in whom we live, and move, and have our being. The texts are

Ifew, only two after all ; on them wait for light, as I do on many more ;

meanwhile, I say boldly, if the doctrine be not in the Bible, it ought to

be, for the whole spiritual nature of man cries out for             it.  Have you read

398 Charles Kingsley.

Maurice's essay on the Trinity in his theological essays ? addressed to
                  ? If not,
Un"itaArbiaonust             you must read it.         as  you  do.     It seems unfor
                  the word
                             Trinity, I feel much

tunate that the name of God should be one which expresses a mere
Inumerical abstraction, and not a moral property. It has, think, helped
to make men forget that God is a spirit-- that
                                                                moral being, and that
                                                           is,
                                                             a
                                                                    is
moral spiritual, and that morality (in the absolute)                    God, as St. John
saith God love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God
in him -- words which, were they not happily in the Bible, would be nowis
         it
called rank and rampant Pantheism. But, Cooper, have that faith in
           I is                                           it

                                                              I
                                                                 I

                                                                                                       ;
Christ's right government of the human race, that have good hope that

He keeping the word Trinity, only because has not yet done its work

when has, He will inspire men with some better one.

   " Now -- have a plan --could you, could you, come and dine with

me at Chelsea Rectory, Church Street, at six to-morrow                   We shall
                                                                         ?

                                                                             I
be all alone, and will smoke and talk ad infinitum. Do, pray, shall
not have such another chance for long time.a

   " shall call at the Board of Health, God willing, -to-morrow afternoon
    I

for your answer."

                                                              EVERSLEY, JuneS, 1857.

   " have delayed writing to you that might send you herewith
certain notes for Trinity Sunday sermon, which has filled my head all
    I                                               it)

        /                                              I
                           a
                              (if
the week, and which you can read may at least set you thinking.

One thing should differ very strongly in, from even the most orthodox

of the men you quote. It will not do to say that the Father communi

cated Godhead, or anything, to the Son communicates must be the;

word. An eternal, and therefore ever-present and perpetual generation

is  the real old Catholic doctrine, and the only safeguard against Arianism.

As soon as you introduce priority and posteriority of time, and not merelyis

of moral relation, you get involved in contradiction. It that Lockite            I

superstition of cognising everything, even God Himself, as under the
conditions of time, which makes all the mess now-a-days, though one
must not lay the blame on Locke. Calvin perhaps, the offender. The
                                                    is,
whole Calvinistic theology, demonology call           it,     based on the fallacy that
                                                          is

God    comprehended by time, and that He has not made time (in
    I                                                     say how -- by
ma"kinghatvheeis  universe) but         made, they can't  by Robertson   time.
                 a  most noble     volume of sermons
                                                                         of Brighton,
                                              ;
                                                    will lend you them as soon as have
                                                is

                                   I
which will do your heart good.

read   them through.         go on and prosper.     I      was sure that your head
      God bless you
   "

would lead you to no other conclusion than that at which you have

                                        Thomas Coopers Sermons.                                     399

Iarrived, because your heart was set on truth, and most heartily do

thank God for it.
   " As to the Hall of Science, do you write and tell me what you

will have to pay for the Hall, and how often you want to lecture, and I

will see whether there are not honest men enough left in England to
Isecure it for you without its costing you a penny.
                                                                                   can't promise ; but
I do think that I could do something, and get something done ; and if

we could, it would make the devil very cross indeed. . . ."

                                         Eversley, Palm Sunday, March, 1858.

   "Most gratifying is this, both to me and your truly affectionate

friend * * * *. These Sheffield parsons seem a noble set. God prosper

them and you. You have a great work before you, and I trust you will

get some of it done, and that your old age may be peaceful, useful, and
Iself-contented, after all the storms and struggles of manhood.
                                                                                   cannot

but hope that a better intellectual era is dawning for the working men,

now that they are beginning to disentangle Christianity from the priest

craft and devils' traditions (of all parties), which have made their better
nature, and the very word of God in their hearts, revolt against                                                                       Oh,
                                         a
                                                                    is

                                                                                                       it.

                                                                                                                                      !
study that first chapter of St. John, and preach that in all its fulness, and

tell them that Christ in them, true and healthy manhood, trying to
                 a
form Himself in              isthem, and make men of them, and you will conquer
   " Remember
                   thseelfl-essascorinficoinfgto-dGaoyd(--Maatntdhewprexaxcvhi.).     The apotheosis of
self-sacrifice --
                                                                                   that new and truly

Christian idea to what generosity and nobleness in them."

The following the last letter which passed between the two
         :
friends
                            is

" My dear Thomas Cooper,                              Eversley, September 23, 1872.
          " have been wandering          for nearly fortnight, the only scrap
a                                            '

          II                                   a
               I

                  I

                                      a
of holiday have had for two years, and only found your book and letter

yesterday. But have read through your Plain Pulpit Talk in two
                                                                                   a
evenings, and am close and critical reader, and with delight. That
                                                                                            ;
man of your genius and learning should have done the thing well does
                                                                                                a'
not surprise me. The delight to me       is  the thing which you have
                                             ,
don"e. see the thorough right old morality -- common to puritans, old
                                                 ;
Anglican Churchmen, apostles, and prophets that you hold right to
be infinitely right and wrong ditto wrong; that you call spade spade,

and talk to men about the real plagues of their own heart as Carlyle
I

                                     ;

400 Charles Kingsley.

says, you ' do not rave against extinct Satans, while quite unaware of the

real man-devouring Satan at your elbow.' My dear friend, go on and

do that, and whether you call yourself Baptist or Buddhist, I shall

welcome you as one who is doing the work of God, and fighting in the

battle of the Lord, who makes war in righteousness. But more. You

are"  no Buddhist,  nor even an Unitarian        as  well  as  from Scripture
                    be, from reason and science
      I happen to
Iand Catholic tradition (I use a word don't like, but you who have read
Iknow that there is no better one as yet), happen to be, I say, an
orthodox theologian, and to value orthodoxy more the more I think, for

its own sake. And it was a solid pleasure to me to find you orthodox,

and to find you deriving your doctrines concerning right and wrong, and
the salvation of men, from orthodox theology. -- Pp. 128, 131, is a
speech of which no sound divine, either of the Church of England
or of the middle age, ought to be ashamed. . . . But, my dear

friend, whatever you do, don't advocate disestablishing us. We are

the most liberal religious body in these realms. In our pale men

can meet who can meet nowhere else. Would to God you belonged

to us, and we had your powers, as we might have without your

altering your creed, with us. But if we -- the one remaining root of
union--we disestablish and become a sect like the sects, then com

petition, not Christ will be God, and we shall bite and devour one

Ianother, till atheism and M. Comte are the rulers of modern thought.

am not mad, but speak the words of truth and soberness; and remember

( I am sure you  will, though orators at  public meetings would not)  that my
plea is quite                             Church of England were      disesta
                 disinterested. If the

blished and disendowed to-morrow, vested interests would be respected,

and I and others living on small incomes till our deaths. I assure you
that I have no family livings, or an intention of putting my sons into

them. My eldest son -- a splendid young fellow -- is roughing it suc

cessfully and honourably as an engineer anywhere between Denver,

U.S. and the city of Mexico. My next and only other son may possibly

go to join him. I can give no more solid proof that, while Radical
Icockneys howl at me as an aristocrat and a renegade, am none ; but a

believer in the persons of my own children, that a man's a man for a'

that."

                CHAPTER XIII.

                                                                 1854.

                                                       Aged 35.
Torquay-- Seaside Studies-- Sanitary Work-- Lectures in Edinburgh--

     Deutsche Theologie-- Letter from Baron Bunsen -- Crimean War
     -- Settles in North Devon -- Writes "Wonders of the Shore"
     and "Westward Ho."

Beyond the shadow of the ship,

  I watched the water snakes ;

They moved in tracks of shining white,
And when they rear'd the elfish light

   Fell off in hoary flakes.

O happy living things ! no tongue                     Mariner."
   Their beauty might declare :

A spring of love gushed from my heart,
   And I bless'd them unaware.
                                Coleridge's "Ancient

                  CHAPTER XIII.

  " TorbaY is a place which should be as much endeared to the
naturalist as to the patriot and to the artist. We cannot gaze
on its blue ring of water and the great limestone bluffs which

bound it to the north and south without a glow passing through
our hearts, as we remember the terrible and glorious pageant
which passed by it in the bright days of July, 1588, when the
Spanish Armada ventured slowly past Berry Head, with Eliza
beth's gallant pack of Devon captains (for the London fleet had
not yet joined), following past in its wake, and dashing into
the midst of the vast line, undismayed by size and numbers,
while their kin and friends stood watching and praying on
the cliffs, spectators of Britain's Salamis. The white line of
houses, too, on the other side of the bay, is Brixham, famed as
the landing-place of William of Orange ; and the stone on the
pier-head, which marks his first footprints on British ground, is
sacred in the eyes of all true English Whigs ; and close by stands
the castle of the settler of Newfoundland, Sir Humphrey Gilbert,
Raleigh's half-brother, most learned of all Elizabeth's admirals
in life, most pious and heroic in death. And as for scenery,
though it can boast of neither mountain-peak nor dark fiord, and
would seem tame enough in the eyes of a Western Scot or
Irishman, yet Torbay has a soft beauty of its own, in the rounded
hills which slope into the sea, spotted with parks full of stately
timber trees, with squares of emerald grass and rich red fallow
fields, each parted from the other by the long line of tall elms,
just flushing green in the Spring hedges, which run down to the
very water's edge, their boughs unwarped by any blast ; and
here and there apple orchards, just bursting into flower in the

404 Charles Kingsley.

Spring sunshine, and narrow strips of water meadow, where the
red cattle are already lounging knee-deep in richest grass, within
ten yards of the rocky, pebble beach, which six hours hence will
be hurling columns of rosy foam high into the sunlight, and
sprinkling passengers, and cattle, and trim gardens, which hardly
know what frost and snow may be, but see the flowers of Autumn
meet the flowers of Spring, and the old year linger smilingly to
twine a garland for the new." *

   In these words Mr. Kingsley describes Torquay, where he
passed the winter and spring in 1854, during a leave of absence
granted him by the Bishop on account of his wife's health,
which had suffered severely from the damp rectory at Eversley.

   At this time, and for some years to come, the clergy of all

parties in the Church stood aloof from him as a suspected
person. The attacks of the religious press, perhaps happily for
him, had so alarmed the clergy of Torquay, High Church and
Evangelical, that all pulpit doors were closed against the author
of " Alton Locke," " Yeast," and " Hypatia," and he spent quiet
peaceful Sundays with his wife and children for the first time for
many years. Once only he was asked to preach in the parish
church, and once at the chapel of St. John, in a Lenten week-day
service, when the congregation, a High Church one, were surprised

at his reverent and orthodox views on the Holy Eucharist. It

was a resting time, and the temporary cessation from sermon
writing and parish work was very grateful to him, " a combina
tion of circumstances having, during the last year," he wrote
to a friend, " so utterly exhausted me, physically and intellect

ually, that I must lie very quiet for a time, and I look forward

with some dread even to the research necessary to make my
Edinburgh Lectures what they ought to be." Once settled at
Livermead, the father and children spent happy hours on the
shore, bringing home treasures every afternoon from the rocks
and sands, and from occasional dredging expeditions in Tor Bay,
to be classified and arranged in the vivarium, and to amuse the

invalid. A daily journal of natural history was kept, and

hampers of sea beasts, live shells, and growing seaweed sent off

                             * "The Wonders of the Shore," p. 15.

                            Wonders of the Shore.                                              405

to Mr. H. P. Gosse, then living in London. To this happy time
he refers when he speaks of

" Wanderings among rock and pool, mixed up with holiest passages of
friendship and of love, and the intercommunion of equal minds and
sympathetic hearts, and of the laugh of children drinking in health from
every breeze and instruction in every step, running ever and anon with
proud delight to add their little treasure to their father's stock ; and of

happy evenings spent over the microscope and the vase, in examining,
arranging, preserving, and noting down in the diary the wonders and the

labours of the happy busy day."

   This sea-side life led to a voluminous correspondence, illus
trated by his own beautiful sketches, the contents of which were
summed up in an article in the "North British Review" on
" The Wonders of the Shore." This article, afterwards de
veloped into " Glaucus," contained not only sketches of natural
history, but some of his deepest thoughts on theology as con
nected with the Transmutation Theory and " The Vestiges of
Creation," of which Dr. George Johnston, of Berwick-on-Tweed,
a distinguished man of science, author of " History of Zoo

phytes," writes :

I" did not find any scientific lapses in the pleasant and able article
                            I was too pleased in the perusal to stop
on sea-side pleasures

and discuss any doubtful or discussable points. What most pleased me

was, first and foremost, the heart and earnestness throughout, the short

sketches of manners, especially that of the long sea worm,* and the

   * The sketch of the     long sea-worm,  "oBf uwt hiinchthePromfeesasnowr hJiloehnthsetoren   speaks, must,
though already printed,  be given here.                                                        are animals in

which results so strange, fantastic, even seemingly horrible, are produced, that fallen
man may be pardoned, if he shrinks from them in disgust. That, at least, must be a

consequence of our own wrong state ; for every thing is beautiful and perfect in its

place. It may be answered, ' Yes, in its place ; but its place is not yours. You

                            and must pay the penalty for intermeddling.'                       We
had no business to look at;

                 it,
                  if
                                                                    'a

                                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                           it
doubt that answer for surely, a man have liberty to do anything, he has liberty to
                                               At all events, whether we were
search out freely his heavenly Father's works

intruding or not in turning this stone, we must pay fine for having done so for

there lies an animal as foul and monstrous to the eye as Hydra, gorgon, or chimaera

dire,' and yet so wondrously fitted to its work, that we must needs endure for our

own instruction to handle, and to look at it. Its name we know not (though here

406 Charles Kingsley,

opinions on development. The latter, it seems vain to say were in
                                                                                          I
                                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                               '
close agreement with those                   I     have held ever since                          read The

Vestiges,' but would have been in vain for me to have attempted to
                        it
                             a
put them in such striking and honest and fervid manner. Were for
                                                                                                       it

this exposition alone, the article would have been most valuable. Take

   as a whole,it        I it     about the   best  p"leading        for the value of the study of
natural history              ishave read

   In this article on the " Wonders of the Shore," he gives his
priceless ideal character of the " perfect Naturalist "

"As one who should combine in himself the very essence of true chivalry,

namely, self-devotion, whose moral character, like the true knight of old,

must be gentle and courteous, brave and enterprising, and withal patient
and undaunted in investigation, knowing (as Lord Bacon would have
put it), that the kingdom of nature, like the kingdom of heaven, must be

taken by violence, and that only to those who knock earnestly and

lurks under every stone), and should be glad to know. It seems some very low                                      a: '
                                                                                                 it
Ascarid or Planarian worm. You see                                                                  is

                                                                                                          '
                                                   it      That black, shiny, knotted lump among
                                                      ?
                                                        a               Look now, as
the gravel, small enough to be taken up in dessert-spoon.                                                  raised,
and its coils drawn out Three feet -- six--nine, at least with a capability of seem
                                 ;!                                 a;
ingly endless expansion               a  slimy tape of living caoutchouc some eighth of an inch in

diameter, dark chocolate-black, with paler longitudinal lines. Is alive It hangs
it                                                                                        it it  ?
          a
helpless and motionless -- mere velvet string across the hand. Ask the neighbouring
                  a                  a
                     a
Annelids, and the fry of the rock fishes, or put into vase, at home, and see. It
                                                '
                                                           ;
                                                                it
lies motionless, trailing itself along the gravel you cannot tell where begins or ends

    may be dead strip of sea-weed, Himanthalia lorea or Chorda filum or
                                                                        a             ''               it,
                                                                          '
                                                                                                         ;
                                                                            a                                  *
even     tarred string. So thinks the little fish, who plays over and over till he

touches at last what             is  too surely head. In an instant bell-shaped sucker has
                                             a

fastened to its side. In another instant, from one lip, concave double proboscis,

just like a'tapir's (another instance of the repetition of forms), has clasped him like a
finger and now begins the struggle, but in vain. He being played with such
      ;                                                             is                           ;'
                                                                                                    a
fishing line as the skill of a Wilson or Stoddart never could invent                                   living line,
                                                   a

with an elasticity beyond that of the most delicate fly-rod, which follows every lunge,

shortening and lengthening, slipping and turning round every piece of gravel and stem

of sea-weed, with tiring drag, such as no highland wrist or step could ever bring to
                        is
bear on salmon or trout. The victima               is  tired now and slowly, yet dextrously, his
                                                                    ;
blind assailant feeling and shifting along his side, till he reaches one end of hima                              a;

and then the black lips expand, and slowly and surely the curved finger begins packis

ing him end foremost down into his gullet, where he sinks, inch by inch, till the swell

ing, which marks his place, lost among the coils, and heis                            probably macerated to

a pulp long before he has reached the opposite extremity of his cave of doom. Once

"safe down, the black murderer slowly contracts into knotted heap, and lies, likea

boa, with stag inside him, motionless and blest." -- Glaucus," 97--99.

                    New Treasures.                                  407

long, does the Great Mother open the doors of her sanctuary. He

must be of a reverent turn of mind too    always reverent, yet never

superstitious, wondering at the commonest, yet not surprised by the

most strange ; free from the idols of size and sensuous loveliness

holding every phenomenon worth the noting down ; believing that every
pebble holds a treasure, every bud a revelation ; making it a point of

conscience to pass over nothing through laziness or hastiness, lest the

vision once offered and despised should be withdrawn, and looking at

eve"ryHeobmjeucstt  as if he were never  to behold it more         for truth,  the
                                         and scrupulous reverence
                     have that solemn

habit of mind which regards each fact and discovery not as our own

possession, but as the possession of its Creator independent of us, our

needs, our tastes-- it is the very essence of a naturalist's faculty, the very

tenure of his existence ; and, without truthfulness, science would be as
                                          "
impossible now as chivalry was of old

   These fragmentary extracts are given in the hope of inducing
those who do not know " Glaucus," to read a book which has

been a blessing and an inspiration to so many.

  At this time, while treading in the footsteps of Colonel George

Montagu, whose lynx eyes had espied them nearly in the same
spot fifty years before, he found washed ashore, in a cave
near Goodrington, after a succession of south-easterly gales, a
number of Montagu's Chirodota (Synapta digitatd) which had
not been seen in the interval. Of these he made many draw
ings, while, with delight, he studied their strange contortions ;
and he writes :

                    TO H. P. GOSSE, ESQ.

                                          LIVERMEAD, January 3, 1854.

I" I jot down what see of my pink chirodotas,                      in case yours
                                                 (?)
                                                            is      one of
die. They are quite distinct from scolanthus their power
                                             ;

attraction, not of retraction have no retractile longitudinally-lined
                    :

proboscis, and the tentacula from the mouth are twelve in number,

not fourteen, and are compound, not simple. Their form              this
                                                                    is

                                                                                     :

carrying  a    boss or thumb at the back of the quadri-palmate horns,

the smooth palm turned toward the mouth. These arms are con:

tinually curving inward to an invisible mouth, generally in alternate

pairs, thus                               mean.       can discern no
                                         I
   "You will see by my rough sketch what           I

408 Charles Kingsley.

solid matter passing into the mouth from their strokes. They are never

spread out in      a ring as in Johnstone's  figure.    of a globe                                      of half inch
   " One has       parted with his tail, in   the form

diameter, from which hang many white filaments, two inches long.

Another (perhaps the same) has two similar filaments protruding from
his tail, which under a quarter inch power, are full of white globular

Igranules in a glairy mucus. -- can see no more. All these filaments

are knotted. The red spots are continued up the back of the arms to

the thumb. The body is covered with minute papillae                                              a      and irregular
                                                                                                   (?)
transverse wrinkles, along the salient ridges of which the red spots

generally run. The red spots become more irregular toward the head,

and   delicate longitudinal pale  lines appear between                                         them.              It
        have just been watching   the dismemberment                                            of specimen.
   "
I

first threw off, without my seeing, piece about an inch long, with the
                                         ;a
                                                 ;
white filaments protruding at each end then recommenced by con
                                                                                                        a

striction an inch from the end the part beyond the constriction
rapidly swelled and contracted to half inch, and began series of violent
                                                                                               a

rotations from right to left, till had turned itself more than half round
                               2)
                                     it
on the longitudinal (fig.         axis. This circular wrenching continued

principally in the part about to separate (which was much more lively

than the body of the animal) till the part nearest swelled and became
                                                    bands, as in fig. 3. A secondI
transparent, disclosing four muscular        (?)
                                                          it
constriction and rotations then took place, and                witnessed the separa

tion, as in fig. 4, but no filaments escaped. The first parted bit remains

very lively. The parent animal was feeding busily with all its hands the

whole time.

   " The animal has during the night broken itself into six pieces, the

filaments protruding at the point of separation or anterior end in each.

The process has hurt the water, making                milky of the Holothuriae,
                 I

                     a

                                                       ;

                                                                      a it
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                           a
the brown have contracted both tentacula and suckers, the white only

the suckers, and, taking in a reef in their tentacula, have inflated their

hea"dNs .Bw.it--h  water,   the mouth pouting in the  centre,                                  like an auricula.  sus
                      have    seen Cyprea Europaea    during                                   the last few days

pend itself from the under-side of low-tide rocks by glutinous thread,
an inch and more in length and when in captivity float on the surface
by means of similar thread attached to glutinous bubble. Johnstone

does not mention this.

   "All the specimens of chirodota have since gone the same way, and

become dissolving views, plus an evil and sour smell.''

                            ·

                 Cardium Tuberculatum.                           409

covered, and a minute report, drawing, and, if possible, live

specimen sent off to Mr. Gosse by rail.

  I" My animal," he writes, " is certainly not your pedichinella, and

cannot tell what it is. On describing it to my brother, Dr. Kingsley, very
knowing in zoophytes, he confest himself ' beat,' and so am I. The

sudden generation of so many individuals in a night was to me very
surprising, and also their sudden death by the same afternoon. The
animal was attached by the small end, and its motion was in a half
circle, accompanied with rapid protrusions and extensions of the anterior
part of the head. My children first called my attention to the plate
' being full of wonderful things tickitig] which exactly expresses the motion

of the goose head and neck. They must have been fully a half line to
a line long.

   " My children and their governess, during my absence, have been three

weeks getting out a magnificent Sabella, who has since died, and I have

only seen the exuviae : the fans were chocolate and white, as large as a

Ipenny ; the body have seen, though putrid, dark greenish black, about

three inches by half inch, with bristles at the joints like the cob-worm,

the case horny, and apparently some five or six inches long originally.

I am in hopes of getting you another from the same spot.
  I" Very low tides come next week, during which will manage a day

at Petit Tor, a day at Tor Abbey, and a day at Goodrington (whence
came chirodota and the orange-mouthed Actinia), and then, if you like,

finish off by a day's dredging in the deep on your account. The weather

is so fine that we may run out a long way, and do a good work.

Actinia gemmacea is to me unknown, as is Actinia dianthus. I will

try to get more of both the animals which you consider to be their

Iyou"ng. had ten minutes' walk the other day on Newhaven shore at Edin
Iburgh, and was astonished by the difference of the fauna.
IActinia crassiconis double the size had ever seen               found

                                                          it,    case of Auri-
                                                              a

conia belgica, Solasta papposa, Cribella oculata, Cyprica islandica,

Modiola modiolus (unknown here,        there  abundant),  and    several other
                                         "
odd things.  !I  longed for more time
                                       !
   He was also fortunate enough to come in for sight of the?a
red-legged Cockle, Cardium Tuberculatum, at Torquay.

   " What, oh what are the red capsicums and why are they poking,
snapping, starting, crawling, tumbling wildly over each other, rattling

410 CharIes Kingsley.

about the huge mahogany cockles, out of which they are protruded ?

Mark them well, for you will perhaps never see them again. They

are a Mediterranean species, or rather three species, left behind on

these extreme south-western coasts, probably at the vanishing of that

warmer epoch which clothed the Lizard point with the Cornish heath,

and the Killarney mountains with Spanish saxifrages, and other relics
of a flora whose home is now the Iberian peninsula, and the sunny

cliffs of the Riviera. Rare in every other shore, it abounds in Torbay.

...You will see tens of thousands of them in every cove for miles this
day.  It is but a shell-fish truly, but the great Cuvier thought it

remarkable enough to devote to its anatomy elaborate drawings and

descriptions, which have done much to illustrate the curious economy
of the whole class of bivalve or double shelled mollusca." -- (" Glaucus,"

PP- 54, 5S-)

   In the well-stocked vivarium at home he could study the ways
of the lovely little Eolis papillosa, the bright lemon-coloured
Doris, and the Cucumaria Hyndmanii, with their wondrous'gills
and feathers -- to common eyes mere sea-slugs, --and varieties of
Serpulae, with their fairy fringes only visible at happy moments
to those who have the patience to watch and wait for the sight ;
while the more minute forms of the exquisite Campanularia
Syringa and Volubilis, and the Sertularii, and that " pale pink
flower of stone," the Caryophyllia Smithii, with numberless
others, were examined under the microscope. Before leaving
Torquay he made a rough list of about sixty species of Mol-
lusks, Annelids, Crustacea, and Polypes found on the shore,
nearly all new to him, and revealing a new world of wonders to
his wife and children.

   " Look," he says, " as a specimen of the fertility of the water world,
at this rough list of species, the greater part of which you might obtain

in an hour, would the rude tide wait for zoologists ; and remember that

the number of individuals of each species of polype must be counted by
tens of thousands, and also that by searching the forest of sea weed
which covers the upper surface, we should probably obtain some twenty
minute species more. A goodly catalogue this, surely, of the inhabi
tants of three or four large stones, and yet how small a specimen of the
multitudinous nations of the sea. From the bare rocks above high-

water mark, down to abysses deeper than ever plummet sounded, is

Life in the Deep.                         411

life, everywhere life ; fauna after fauna, and flora after flora, arranged in

zones, according to the amount of light and warmth which each species
requires, and to the amount of pressure which they are able to endure.
The crevices of the highest rocks only sprinkled with salt spray in

spring-tides and high gales, have their peculiar little univalves, their

crisp lichen-like sea-weeds in myriads ; lower down the region of the
Fuci has its own tribes of periwinkles and limpets ; below again, about
the neap-tide mark, the region of the Corallines and Algae furnishes
food for yet another species who graze on its watery meadows ; and

beneath all, only uncovered at low spring-tide, the zone of the Lami-

nariae, is most full of all of every imaginable form of life. So that as

we descend the rocks, we may compare ourselves (likening small things
to great) to those who, descending the Andes, pass in a single day from
the vegetation of the Arctic zone to that of the Tropics. And here and
there, even at half tide level, deep rock basins, shaded from the sun,
and always full of water, keep up in a higher zone, the vegetation of a
lower one, and afford, in miniature, an analogy to those deep ' barrancos '

which split the high table-land of Mexico, down whose awful cliffs, swept
by cool sea breezes, the traveller looks from among the plants and
animals of the temperate zone, and sees far below, dim through their
everlasting vapour-bath of rank hot steam, the mighty forms and gorgeous
colours of a Tropic forest."*

   Dean Stanley's eloquent words, which give a true picture
of Charles Kingsley at all times, yet so vividly describe the
attitude of his mind during those rare hours of rest and liberty

at Torquay, that they must needs be quoted as an illustration to
this chapter of his life.

" Such was the wakefulness, such the devouring curiosity, of him

whose life and conversation, as he walked amongst ordinary men, was

....often as of a waker among drowsy sleepers, as a watchful sentinel in
advance of the slumbering host.  Perhaps even more than to the

glories and the wonders of man, he was, far beyond what falls to the lot

of most, alive and awake in every pore to the beauty, the marvels of

nature. That contrast in the old story of ' eyes and no eyes,' was the

contrast between him and common men. That eagle eye seemed to

discern every shade and form of animal and vegetable life. That listen

ing ear, like that of the hero in the fairy tale, seemed almost to catch the

' The Wonders of the Shore," pp. 39, 40.

412 Charles Kingsley.

growing of the grass and the opening of the shell. Nature to him was a
companion speaking with a thousand voices. And Nature was to him
also the voice of God, the face of the Eternal and Invisible, as it can
only be to those who study and love and know it. For his was no idle

dreamer's pleasure ; it was a wakefulness not only to the force and beauty
of the outward world, but to the causes of its mysterious operations, to
the explanations given by its patient students and explorers."*

To this period, too, his distinguished friend Professor Max

Miiller, who came to see him at Livermead, refers when he speaks
of him " on the Devonshire coast watching the beauty and wis

dom   of Nature, reading her solemn lessons,  and  "chwuacsklienngj,oytoeod,
over  her inimitable fun." The " inimitable   fun

in watching the movements and manners of the family of the

Crustacea, especially the soldier crab, of which he had always

several specimens in the vivarium, which were an inexhaustible

source of merriment to him, and which yet led him at the same

moment to some of the deep, strange speculations hinted at so
reverently in the pages of " Glaucus."

This letter to Mr. Gosse on the same subjects, though of later

date, comes in natural sequence to the two former.

                                      TO P. H. GOSSE, ESQ.

                                                 EVERSLEY, Whitsunday Evening, May 12, 1856.

   " I hope you will not think that I am breaking the Sabbath day by

expressing to you my thanks for your books, at which I have glanced.
I found them, for my own soul, not unworthy comments on that glorious
old hymn, ' Oh, all ye works of the Lord,' the traditional ' Song of the
Three Children;' and on the still more glorious 104th Psalm, which
occur in our Church of England Whitsunday services, as perennial
memorials that all the wonders of nature are the work of the Spirit of
God. I have often wondered that the Popish elders, from whom we

derived those services, were, in spite of their blindness, vouchsafed so
much light as to see that the 104th Psalm had anything to do with the
descent of the Spirit at Pentecost. Certainly they learnt it from a
higher source than their own Manichaeism.

    " But now, your books have done me spiritual good, for they have

      * Funeral sermon on Canon Kingsley, by Dean Stanley.

                         A Microscopic Angel.                                                   413

humbled me, and taught me that I must not pretend to be a naturalist,

but simply look on and admire the work which you and your compeers

are doing. No ; when I glanced my eye merely over your division of
Ithe Actiniae, at the end of your ' Tenby,' felt how great God's world was,
Iand how small was ; and that any man who pretends to know even

one corner of the Lord's world thoroughly must devote his whole mind

and life to and not fancy that he can pry into the doings of the Spirit,
            is it,
                                                                                    a
                                                                                  it
while he frittering away his time on half dozen other hobbies.

Indeed, you have all but frightened me away from physical science by

....making me feel (thoughnot for the  first       time)  how  vast                    is.
   " Thus far to-night.

                                                                                            May 13.

" To continue.           like your Tenby more and more                                 like, too, the
                     '        '                                I
                                      a                                I I ;I
                      I
                                                '
way in which you have interspersed local traditions and stories.                                am
                                                                                            I
glad, too, to find you so thorough Protestant.                 fancy that you and
                                                                                               it, I
should agree there as well as we do about sea-beasts.                                       have seen a

good deal of the other side, no man more, and the more see of

the more foolish and harmful find hardening the heart, and deaden
                              I

                                            it,

ing the spirit, drawing away the soul from living communion with God,

and from vital works,' just as much as from vital faith, to outward

observances, and mere stage-acting in the house of God, which to me
                                                                                            is

sickening.

"But want now to talk to you about your exquisite drawings, especially
   aI
of the Rotifers. They are far better than any have ever seen, though not
             a                I,
                  '                 I

                                            I
better than the drawings of your own saw at your house. am charmed
                                                                     I

with the Melicerta ringens.   too, have seen that wondrous nymph

build her house, and could not help fancying that she might be after all as

rational body as was (putting soul out of the question of course).
                     I

What can size have to do with intellect            It as easy and philosophical
                                                 ?
                                                           is

to conceive          microscopic angel,' as one of those vast beings whose

power, not, of course, their size (for what have spirits to do with size                             ?)

St. John symbolizes as standing in the sun. Your larvae of Echinoderms
have thrown me into such state of astonishment, that                 could make my
                         Ia

                                                         a

                                                            iIf
people understand them, would preach sermon on them, and ask them

(as often do on other matters), how men can doubt the mysteries of
I....gra"ceN, ecoxmt, ingamfrodmeliagGhtoedd

            I            who has created such mysteries              of nature?                 great
                          with the new Actiniae, though               one, to my

pleasure, was not new;        mean Sagartia Venusta.                                   found her at
                         I
                                                       I

Clovelly in summer of 1854, on oyster-lumps from deep water, along

with Sagartia Nivea saw she was new to me, and could not make her
                     :

414 CJiarles Kingsley.

out. All the specimens were put in a hot window, and died before
I could send                                                        '
              them  to  you with  the dear lost  ' blue  plum     !    Actiniae
Iwhich found at Lundy, covered with a thin mucous shirt. That,

too, is an undescribed species. The orange-tentacled one is new
to me, and, strange to say, I never could find Rosea at Babbacombe,
IfIthough since left, Dr. Battersby has been finding it plentifully.
                                                                       you

want a fresh habitat for troglodytes, put down Hastings east rocks,
....Iwh"er'eGlaufcouunsd'
               it (for the first  time) in hundreds this winter.  has  brought
              has been much
                                  more read than I expected, and

me many pleasant letters, and self-introductions, from scientific men.

IYour handbook to the Aquarium is just what wanted."

   But these pursuits, however enchanting, did not engross him to
the forgetfulness of the great social questions of the day, and
early in the year we find him writing to Sir Arthur Helps, about
Sanitary matters, and urging the clergy to turn their minds to
the subject.

   " S. G. O. is much pleased with your pamphlet, but fearful of its
success as a practical measure, and still more fearful that the parsons
cannot be made to bestir themselves in the matter, as indeed am I.

I send you in return some copies of my article on Lord Palmerston in

' Fraser.' Be so kind as to spread them, if you know of any quarter in

which they may do good."

This article was written in consequence of Lord Palmerston's

refusal to allow a national fast-day on account of Cholera, for

reasons in which Mr. Kingsley deeply sympathised, and which

he expresses in a little preface to three cholera sermons preached

at Eversley in 1849, and which    he    now  republished          as a tract
entitled " Who Causes Pestilence     "

                                    ?

    " These sermons," he says, " were preached during the last appearance

of the cholera in Great Britain. Since then, both Scripture, reason, and
medical experience have corroborated the views which were put forth in

them ; and as a clergyman, I feel bound to express my gratitude to Lord

Palmerston for having refused to allow a National Fast-day on the
occasion of the present re-appearance of pestilence, and so having
prevented fresh scandal to Christianity, fresh excuses for the selfish
ness, laziness, and ignorance which produce pestilence, fresh turning

Sanitary Science and the Creeds versus Superstition. 4 1 5

men's minds away from the real causes of this present judgment, to

fanciful and superstitious ones.

  " It was to be hoped, that after the late discoveries of sanitary science,

the clergy of all denominations would have felt it a sacred duty to go

forth on a crusade against filth, and so to save the lives of thousands,

not merely during the presence of cholera, but every year.

   "We cannot plead ignorance as an excuse. The facts of sanitary

science are at once so notorious, and so easy of comprehension, that

ignorance in an educated man must be either wilful and deliberate, or

the consequence of a stupidity which ought to unfit a man for any office

or responsibility. This may be the case with some ; but the majority of

preachers and ministers seem to care little about sanitary reform, for one
of three reasons :--

   " 1. Some fancy that the business of clergymen is exclusively what

they choose to call ' spiritual,' and that sanitary reform, being what they

choose to call a ' secular ' question, is beyond their province.
   " This Manichaean and unscriptural distinction still lingers in the

minds of a few, both lay and clerical, especially of those who attach a

superstitious importance to the mere act of almsgiving as something

which will increase their chance of future happiness, while they seem, in

many cases, to make the performance of that duty an excuse for leaving

their tenants and parishioners to live the life of swine ; ' paying tithe of

mint, anise, and cummin, and neglecting the weightier matters of the

law, justice, mercy, and          truth    '  glad  enough  to give] alms for a selfish
                                         ;

and superstitious purpose, but without any real wish to raise their poorer

brethren permanently to a small share of those comforts without which

the"y   could not   exist a day.    and       joyfully,  as a clergyman  of the Church
                   say, proudly
       But I can

of England, that this notion is dying out daily under the influence

of those creeds which tell men that the Son of God has redeemed

all mankind, body, soul, and spirit, and therefore teaches clergymen to

look on the physical and intellectual improvement of every human being

as a duty no less sacred than his spiritual welfare. Nevertheless, there

is still too much of this lazy and selfish Manichaeism left among us ; and

on the too probable re-appearance of cholera in the spring, Britain will

rea"p   the bitter fruits  of     it.the notion     of its  being  possible                      to abolish
       2. Some, again,     dislike       is

                                                         it
                                                                                             is
pestilence by sanitary reform, because                   seems to interfere with their

own religious theories and doctrines. Of them there nothing to

be said, but that that man                    to be pitied who can shut his eyes to

facts, and deny the evidence of his own senses and reason, for the sake

of preserving his own dark and superstitious calumnies against the God

of order, justice, and love.

4i 6 Charles Kingsley.

"      Some   again -- and  perhaps          the  larger class --do in  their hearts
   3.
believe the truths of sanitary science ;          but they are afraid,  especially if

they get their subsistence on ' the voluntary principle,' of urging them

too plainly and boldly, lest they should attack the vested interests, and
thereby excite the displeasure of wealthy and influential members of

their congregations. They therefore make a miserable compromise

between their interests and their consciences, and put aside sanitary

reform as a thing of which it is not safe to think too much, lest it should

compel them to say something which might be ' personal ' and ' offensive '

to those of their respectable hearers whose incomes are derived from

the"  filth,   disease,  and brutality   of  the lower    classes.      denomination
      Let     all these   three classes  of   ministers,
                                                           of whatever
they may be -- let them but read a little, a very little, on the subject of

sanitary reform. Let them read the excellent sheet issued by the Board

of Health, which proves that the number of lives destroyed every year

by diseases which sanitary reform can extirpate, is several times greater
than the number of lives lost in battle during any year of the great

French war. Let them read a pamphlet by Dr. Southwood Smith,* and

there see the actual practical results which have been obtained by
sanitary reform, and the providing of fit dwellings for the lower classes,

not merely in extirpating disease, but in extirpating drunkenness, ferocity,

and those coarser vices of which too many preachers speak as if they

were the only sins worth rebuking. Let them consider that this is a

question involving the lives of thousands and tens of thousands of

human beings. Let them consider the enormous power which they
might have employed, which they can still employ -- each man in his
pulpit, his congregation, his parish -- to deliver those from death whom
the covetousness and neglect of man have appointed to die ; and then

let them solemnly ask themselves whether, unless they bestir themselves

very differently from what they yet have done, their brother's blood

will not cry against them from the ground. Let them ask themselves

Ifwhether it does not cry against them already. they believe the doctrines

which they preach, let them at least act up to them in the simple practical

matter of saving the lives of those committed to their charge. It is not

Ifor ministers of the gospel to say with Cain, ' Am my brother's keeper ? '

As surely as there is a righteous God who judges the earth, He does
hear the complaint of the poor, and makes inquisition for blood. As

surely as there is a merciful God who answers prayer, He has answered

the prayers of those two first Cholera Fasts in the best way in which

              " Results of Sanitary Improvement," by Dr. Southwood Smith.

         First Visit to Scotland.                             4 17

rational beings could wish a Heavenly Father to answer prayer, namely,
by showing us how to extirpate the evil against which we prayed. And

if the Bible be true, then as long as ministers are careless about doing

that, the only answer they can expect to fasts or prayers is that ancient
one, --

   " ' When ye come to appear before Me, who hath required this at

your hands, to tread My courts ? Bring no more vain offerings ; your

Sabbaths and your calling of assemblies I cannot away with ; it is

iniquity, even your solemn meeting. Your appointed feasts My soul
Ihateth ; they are a trouble to Me ; am weary to bear them. And
Iwhen you spread forth your hands, will hide Mine eyes from you ;
Iyea, when you make many prayers,
                                   will not hear : your hands

are full of blood. Wash you, make you clean ; put away the evil of
your doings from before My eyes ; cease to do evil ; learn to do well ;

seek justice, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the

widow.'

   " This, it seems to me, if the Bible be indeed an inspired book,

setting forth God's dealings with man, is the only answer which we can

expect to any national prayers, till we have, by sanitary reform, done

what God has taught and commanded us to do.                   Courtesies

   " It is time to speak plainly and sternly on this matter.

and circumlocutions are out of place, where the morals, health, lives of

thousands are at stake, from the negligence and superstition of those
whom God has sent to teach men their duty to Him and to each

other.                             " C. K."

                                   February 13, 1854.

   In February he went to Edinburgh to deliver four lectures on
the " Schools of Alexandria," at the Philosophical Institute. It
was his first visit to Scotland, and he writes to his wife :

         GIBB'S HOTEL, EDINBURGH, February 20, 1854.

    " Comfortable journey-- the scenery from Berwick very curious
-- quite new to me -- mostly a large cliff over the sea. Farming magnifi
cent -- steam-engines at every farm. Edinburgh itself deserves all the

Ipraises which have been lavished upon it. The esplanade where sit

now is certainly the finest in Great Britain. The public buildings very

splendid, and so are the spires and churches, all of grey stone. The
Castle in the centre of the city and Arthur's Seat, with its basalt crags,
800 feet high, ready to topple into the town. The general look of the

VOL. I.                                                       EE

  4i 8 Charles Kings ley.

  Pentland Hills to the west is that of Dartmoor from Torquay ; but

  Ithere is a great rich flat vale between us and them. This afternoon

  walked with F. Russell to the Costorphine Hills, and got a noble view

  of the city, which there looked very like Oxford, with a huge Windsor

  Castle in the middle of and the Firth of Forth, with its islands andit,

  the Fifeshire Hills.    Most beautiful, God knows, was. The peopleit
  very kindly. Mr.         called on me -- man risen from the ranks, and,
                                            a
                                                a

                                                    is
                                                          a
  true Scot-like, was shy and cautious, till he found me out, and then
  as jolly and cordial as possible. * * * *
                                                             great admirer of Maurice,

  and quite de-Calvinized. We had pleasant talk about many things,

  and he has put me in rather better heart about my lectures, over which

I   have felt more nervous than have ever done in my life, and would
                                         I

  give anything to run right away home."

                                                             WARRISTON, Wednesday.

    " The lecture went off well.            was dreadfully nervous, and actually
                                         I

                                                     it
  cried with fear up in my own room beforehand; but after praying

    recovered myself, and got through very well, being much cheered
I                         All the notabilities came, and were introduced

              ;

               I
  and clapped

  to me and had some pleasant talk with Sir James Maxwell. Mr.

  Erskine, of Linlathen,  is        charming old man.
                             a

    " My second lecture went off better than the first, in spite of the

  delicate points on which touched. Nothing can exceed the cordi
                    I
  ality of people.
                         is
                                     it
                     drove with Mrs. Bonar round the Queen's drive to
  Arthur's Seat. It perfectly magnificent -- great wild volcano peak
                                                         a

  hanging over the city, with Holyrood at the foot. Just starting for
  Linlathen, via Perth,             being too rough to cross the Forth. The
                    is
                                it
  northerly gale     awful. Yesterday, flying snow storms, and strange

  darkness from N.W. Please let me know the weather at Torquay for
                          "
  the last two days

Ia                                                                                   Linlathen.isII
                         in                                           I
     " This place very pleasant, and Mr. Erskine delightful. He gave us
     long exposition last night, about the indwelling Word, and amIa
  delighted to find that our views seem to agree thoroughly; but
      long so painfully for you and the children too, that have no
  pleasure or peace anything, and am counting the days till get back.
  Tell Rose and Maurice have got strange sponge for each of them,
  which picked up upon the shore of the Firth of Tay."
    I

              Chevalier Bunsen and Deutsche Theologie. 419

                                                                               Warriston, February 26.

   " Had a charming steam across the Firth of Forth, Mr. Erskine
coming back with me -- the day lovely. The day before, we went to the
' vitrified fort' of Laws, and also to Pitkerro, a delicious old fortified

house, full of turrets and nooks. Lecture last night went off well.

Smith, the translator of 'Fichte'came up to me and begged me to

publish them. People seem surprised at my power of condensing.

To me they seem      dreadfully trashy. God knows.                                Erskine and    others
think they will do   much good, but will infuriate the                         Free Kirk. C
                                                                                                 ****

is gone down to London to lecture against Maurice. Russell intends

to get Maurice here next winter to lecture on the Social Influence

of Christianity as displayed in History."

     ...." It is at last over, and I start for England to-morrow. The last
lecture was more crowded than ever.                                         Altogether it has been
                                                                                                 I
you had but been with me, and alas that poisons everything) one of the                               I
              I                                                                                            I (if
                   a' I

                          I

                                                                   '
                                                                         !
most pleasant and successful episodes in my life.                              I  have not met with

a single disagreeable -- have been heaped with kindness.                                         have got

my say said without giving offence, and have made friends which hope

will last for life.  have seen the very best society in Scotland, and

cannot be thankful enough to God for having sent me here, and carried
me through. To-night dine with Sir * * * * *
                                                                               *,     perfect fine gentle
                                                                                   a

man of the old school, who was twenty-five years in parliament, and

approves highly of Alton Locke and 'Yeast;' as also does his wife,

....who told me had glorious career before me, and bade God speed

me in it."

   Returning from Scotland he stopped in London to see how

Mr. Maurice's affairs were going on, on his way to Eversley,
where he had to remain during change of curates.
                                                      ;a
" have just seen Archdeacon Hare, who looking better; but this
     I                                                                      is

          a                                                                    L

          I                                                                                  is
business of Maurice's has fretted him horribly.                                * * working, tooth
                                           '

                                           a
and nail, for Maurice in Lincoln's-inn and the working men in London,

including many of the old Chartists of 1848, are going to present a

grand address to Maurice in St. Martin's Hall, at which, believe, am
                                                                                      II         ?
to be chairman. Kiss the babes for me, and tell them long to be
                                                                                                   II
wit"h   them  on Tor sands.                   of  my  delightful            chat with Bunsen         have

       Did    ever tell you

promised him to write couple of pages preface to Miss Winkworth's

!...."translation of the Deutsche Theologie.' Oh how you will revel         !                               in

that book

                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                      F.
                                                                                                         2

420 Charles Kingsley.

                                                       EVERSLEY, Sunday Evening, February, 1854.

.... I" A very busy day is over, but a very pleasant one.
had a very good congregation in the afternoon, and every one seemed

glad to see me. The Erskines asked me to dinner, but I could not go
because I have a very heavy evening's work, before going to Lord

Palmerston.* Helps is coming out as a hero. What a thought that

we may by one great and wise effort save from ten to twenty thousand

Ilives in London alone ! But am not neglecting the parish. I shall

be back to-morrow evening, and in the school at nine on Tuesday

morning. Mrs. Erskine has already promised me a large subscription
towards an Anti-Cholera Fund. I will send you the particulars in a
            I am quite content to stay here and do my duty (till
day or two
the curate comes), though I long more than ever I did in my life for
home and for those dear dear children. Tell Rose I have brought her

a souvenir from the north, and Maurice a yellow vine walking-stick,

which was given me from Inveraray Castle                  To-day has been
lovely --bright sun -- crocuses in full bloom. The dear old treacherous

place looking as if it were really healthy. Nothing sanitary done in
the parish. Dr. Foster has, I really believe, made a great scientific dis

covery with regard to cholera, and we are going to push it."

I". . . .   have nothing to tell you --I work on and on, but am
Ivery sad. How can
                    help being sad in this place? It is like a
grave -- empty of you and the children.

     "That 'Deutsche Theologie' is doing me much good. Curious it

is,  that that, much as differ from its view of man, the only kind of
            I                                             a
                      II                                          is

                              I

                                                 a
religious reading which love, or which has even any real meaning for

my heart.   am further off than ever from                 curate              God

knows best whether or not ought to be here just now.                  StillI  can't

help beating against the wires little                  "

   The anxieties and expenses of illness were very heavy justa
now, but he always met them by brave heart and by cheering
words, to one who lamented the labour they entailed on him.

                                                                                                    EVERSLEY, February.

   " And-- these very money difficulties
Has not been fulfilled in them, As thy day so shall thy strength be
Have we ever been in any debt by our own sin Have we ever really
     it

                                                                    '
                                                                                       ?

                                                                                                                      ?'

            * Deputation on Sanitary subjects.

                              God's Training.                   421

wanted anything we needed ? Have we not had friends, credit, wind

falls--in all things, with the temptation, a way to escape? Have they
not been God's sending ? God's way of preventing the cup of bliss

Ibeing over-sweet (and thank him heartily it has not been) ; and, con

Isider, have they not been blessed lessons ? But do not think that

am content to endure them any more than the race horse, because he

I Iloves running is content to stop in the middle of the course. To pay

them, I have thought, have written, have won for us a name which,

please God, may last among the names of English writers. Would you

Igive up the books have written that we might never have been in

difficulties? So out of evil God brings good ; or rather, out of neces
sity He brings strength -- and, believe me, the highest spiritual training

is contained in the most paltry physical accidents ; and the meanest

actual want, may be the means of calling into actual life the possible
but sleeping embryo of the very noblest faculties. This is a great

mystery : but we are animals, in time and space ; and by time and

space and our animal natures, are we educated. Therefore let us be

only patient, patient ; and let God our Father teach His own lesson,
His own way. Let us try to learn it well, and learn it quickly ; but do
not let us fancy that He will ring the school-bell, and send us to play

before our lesson is learnt.
" Therefore 'rejoice in your youth, ere the days come when thou shalt
Isay, have no pleasure in them.' But make to yourself no ghosts.
IAnd remember he who says, ' will be happy some day,' never will be
Ifhappy at all.
                 we cannot be happy now with ten times the blessings

which nine-tenths of God's creatures have, we shall never be happy

though we lived a thousand years. Let us lay this solemnly to heart,

and take no thought for the morrow."

                                                     February 27.

   " The Guards march to-morrow ! How it makes one's blood boil !
We send 10,000 picked men to Malta, en route for Constantinople, and
the French 60,000."

                              Eversley, Ash Wednesday, March, 1854.

" We have just had service. Mr. B. cannot come. It is a glorious
Iday for you, thank God. I have just seen the first butterfly.
                                                                am very

lonely. God forgive me for my impatience, when He is heaping me
with so many blessings. It is a very wholesome trial for me, and teaches

me much about myself, but the struggle is to do      anything.  One feels
so frightfully listless, and the day is a week long          "

422 Charles Kingsley.

". . . . The 'Deutsche Theologie' is come from Bunsen : i.e.,bo\h

Miss Winkworth's MSS. and Mrs. Malcolm's printed translation. Pray
order Mrs. Malcolm's ' Old German Theology,' with a preface by Martin

Luther. You never read so noble a book. The Reform Bill is shelved :

I                                    does not much matter at this minute. Two days
               in
                                is,
                                it
excellent as it

after our deputation, that bane of London, the Sewers Commission,

awoke the morning, and behold they were all dead men Lord Pal-
                                                                                                                        !
merston, having abolished them by one sentence the night before, and                                                              !

have not heard that any one                               gone into mourning. The Board of
                                              is
                                                   it
Health are now triumphant and omnipotent. God grant that they may

use their victory well, and not spoil by pedantry and idealism Baines

(capital man that he                 is       brings in three clauses, which will reform the

                                          !)

whole poor-law, and strike at the root of cottage-destruction. The squires

intend to show fight.
" God knows
                                     base of one to sit here fretting about little private
                    it
                        is
                                 is

                                               a
                                                       '
evils, while the country doing so well and the ministers so nobly. The
war to pay for itself, year by year, by five per cent, income-tax, and
I is                                                         'a

                                                                  is it

                                                                         ?

                                                                     I
                                                                                             :

                                                                             I
                                                                               I if

                                                                                              it
no more running in debt. The Times has taken up the cause of sol

diers' wives and families, and great cause                   is.                                                        be, what
                                                             sound and
   " feel that after all England's heart

matter whether am at Eversley or Torquay And yet long to be
                 I
                     I

                                         a
there. Tell Baby am coming soon                              have got Hawley's

secretary dining here with lot of blue-books, he and being about a

joint pamphlet, 'The Cholera versus the Present Slavery of Union

Medical Officers.' "

   In reference to the evidence he gave on sanitary matters as
one of deputation to Lord Palmerston, he says
I                                             I
    I
                                                                        it
               a                                                            is
                              is                                                             a

                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                                     :
" had an opportunity of telling Lord Palmerston great deal which

trust may save many lives. Remember,                         now question of blood-
guiltiness -- that all. But am not going to London any more about
sanitary matters. The utter inability of the Health of Towns Act to

cleanse this or any other neighbouring parish made me consider what                                                                  I
                                                          "
have done as parochial duty
                 a

   During the Crimean War the autumn, he wrote the followin
ing characteristic letter to Mr. Simon,«whose noble efforts as
Medical Officer of Health for the City of London made himit
then and ever after one of his heroes as well as friends. Though
of a later date, comes in most appropriately here.

            Physical Development or Deterioration.                                                                    423

                             TO J. SIMON, ESQ., M.D.

                                          Bideford, North Devon, December 2%, 1854.

  " I have just read, with intense pleasure, your City Cholera Re
port, in the columns of the ' Times.' I do not know whether to praise

more its cautiousness and modesty, or its eloquence and completeness.

IThough you may not choose to say that you have saved lives, shall
I Isay it for you, and only wish that may have half as fair an account

of solid work done to render in at the last account, as that report

contains.

   " Verily the days are coming (they have not been of late years) when,
as the Prophet says, ' a man shall be more precious than fine gold ; '
when the lives and manhood of the citizens will be found more valuable

to a nation, after all, than the wealth of a few, or even than the mere

brute physical employment of vast numbers. And if we are to furnish

many more levies of men who will equal the heroes of Inkerman, we

must open our eyes, and first keep them alive when they are infants, and

next, give them such an atmosphere to grow up in, that they shall

become men and not rickety monkies : and your labours are helping

towards     this good end.        ' food  for  powder '  requires  to be of the best
             a sad thing that
   " It is

quality ; but so it and unless the physical deterioration of the lower
is
                   is,

                                                                                                                   ;
classes stopt by bold sanatory reform, such as you have been working

out, we shall soon have rifles, but no men to shoulder them at least to

use the butts of them when required."

   The " Deutsche Theologie " was translated by Miss Susanna
Winkworth at Chevalier Bunsen's request, and Mr. Kingsley was
asked to write preface. He had objections, and consulted Mr.

Maurice, who answered him thus
I                                              :
                          a
                                                     is
                                                         a

                                                           I

                                                                                  a

                                                                                                              ;

                                                                                              it
" think your objections have great force, but do not see that they

need prevent you from stating your conviction that, as practical work

on Ethics, the book fully deserves to be translated and read and that

the discovery of the only correct MSS.         reason for introducing to

the public at this time. The religious people have no right to be scan
dalized by any thing that Luther and Spenser sanctioned. You can say

that you, being more severely orthodox than they were, cannot swallow

all the sentences in esteeming them to be too mystical and not quiteit,

scriptural, but that nevertheless your judgment in the main jumps
with the great Evangelical authorities, and that you conceive they were

424 Charles Kingsley.

anxious to enlist such a witness against the self-seeking tendencies of

the religion of their time, as you and the translator are to claim him for
                              "
the same purpose in this day

Chevalier Bunsen writes in the same strain :

" MY DEAR FRIEND,                                                  Keep
          " My practical proposal coincides with that of Maurice.

to the ethic point, and refer as to the metaphysical terminology to
ILuther.   may, if required, say a word in the letter to Miss W. about

this point, although it would be much better for the book and its readers
if you, a clergyman of the Church of England, did it instead. Now,

having said so much, let me add a word on the great subject itself.

When I read your Preface to Hypatia (which you know I think does
not justice to the book), I thought I perceived you had accepted the

council-creeds more historically than penetrated them philosophically.

IOtherwise you could not have praised so much what must believe to

be only a great logical, formal ingenuity, but compared with St. John
and the apostolic fathers down to Tertullian and Origen, a perfect and

thorough misunderstanding, like that of an anatomist taking the corpse

for the living body. The more I study and think, the stronger that con

viction grows, for the inward witness goes with the outward. You will

see that my whole new volume has its centre in pointing to facts which

I Ishow that cannot say less than what do say ; that our Confessions of

Faith, if taken as making law, must be said frankly to be confessions of

the blunders of those who drew them up : like the failure in an equa

tion. The X is not made out, and this is confessed.

  " I have been at this point from 1817, when the Theologia Germanica

came into my hands at Rome. My Aphorisms,* if you read them with

reference  to this, will tell you more.  of   the  Logos, Christ  and     the
           difference of God and Man,
   " The

individual Christian, is that of the Infinite and the Finite, neither more

nor less. This is nothing to those for whom nothing exists which is not

in space and time ; but much, and enough for all who know that the finite
=--world

infinite.
           and  man -- has no other key to    its understanding   except  the
                Werdcn without the Sein --TM
            No                                omos ov  6 omua     <Hm.
" Now the Theologia Germanica says nothing more in the most

startling passages. But certainly we have learnt to say it better, and you,

the English, ought to help us to say it still better. For this reason I

                * " Hippolytus," vol. \\., first edition (1852).

          Righteousness and Justification.                                                                                 425

have tortured my brains and your language, in laying before you the

Ap"hoSreisemwsh. ether we meet on this divine road. Excuse the hurried and
Iimperfect writing.  hope Mrs. Kingsley is continuing better. A great

anxious time of judgment is now hanging over Germany. Deus provi-
Idebit !
          correct Wo proof-sheets every day.
                           " Ever yours faithfully", Bunsen."

These letters decided him, and he wrote to Miss Winkworth:

                                              Torquay, March 25, 1854.

" I am conquered.        I have written the preface this day, and

will send the MSS. on Monday. Pray translate that Unterschied der

Personal you can) the distinction of the persons and then we shall
          (if
                                  '
                                         d

                                                I
                                                                                                                       ;'

                                                                                                        is
be at least, on that point, Fabri du diab/c.  believe Maurice right.

Pray show the preface to him and Bunsen, and whomsoever you like,

that we may get the help of any suggested improvement."

   After the book had been out some time he writes again to
Miss Winkworth
          :

                   is I I
   " You will be glad to hear, am sure, that  your Theologia being
                                              Sure am that the book
valued by every one to whom have shown        it.
will do very great and lasting good."
                                                      I

                                                                               is

   In the Preface, which well worth reading as whole, thesea

extracts will show how he guards himself from misconception as
to his agreement with all the author's views.

" To those who really hunger and thirst after righteousness, and who

therefore long to know what righteousness     is,                                                                          To

                                                  it

                                                          :
                                                                 ;

                                                                                ; it
                                                                                                           :
                                              that they may copy

those who long to be freed, not merely from the punishment of sin after

they die, but from sin itself while they live on earth and who, therefore,
                                              To those who wish to
wish to know what sin that they may avoidis

be really justified by faith, by being made just persons by faith and

who cannot satisfy either their consciences or reasons by fancying that

God looks on them as right when they know themselves to be wrong,

or that the God of Truth will stoop to fictions (mis-called forensic) which
would be considered false and unjust in any human court of law To
                                              a
                                                                              a

                                                                                                       :
those who cannot help trusting that union with Christ must be some

thing real and substantial, and not merely metaphor and flower of

426 Charles Kingsley.

rhetoric : To those, lastly, who cannot help seeing that the doctrine of

Christ in every man, as the indwelling Word of God, The Light who

lights every one who comes into the world, is no peculiar tenet of the

Quakers, but one which runs through the whole of the Old and New

Testaments, and without which they would both be unintelligible, just as

the same doctrine runs through the whole of the Early Church for the

....first two centuries, and is the only explanation of them : To all these
this noble little book will recommend itself.                                               Not that I agree

                                           It is for its noble views of righteousness and

                                                           But even in those points in which
....with all its contents.

of sin that I honour
                                           it                    am well aware that there are strong
should like to see                           it.

                                                     I
I                                          altered

            '

                                 '
authorities against me. The very expression, for instance, which most

startles me, vergottet,' deified or made divine, used, word for word,
                                                                        :
both by Saint Athanasius and Saint Augustine, the former of whom has
                                                                            if
said, He became man, that we might be made God (Athan. Orat. de
                                                                                        is
Incarn. Verbi, torn. p. 108); and the latter, 'He called men Gods,
                                           I.

                                                             p.
as being deified by His grace, not as born of His substance (Aug. in

Ps. xlix. Ed. Bened. torn. iv.                                   414). There are many passages, more

over, in the Epistles of the Apostles, which we paraphrase them at all,

we can hardly paraphase in weaker words. It seems to me safer and

wiser to cling to the letter of Scripture but God forbid that should
                                                                                            I

wish to make such man as the author of the Theologia Germanica an
                    a                         In many obscure passages words are used
                                 a
offender for word

in their strict original and scientific meaning, as they are used in the

creeds, and not in that meaning which has of late crept into our very

pulpits under the influence of Locke's Philosophy. When, for instance,

said that God the substance of all things, this expression, in the
it                  '
   it is                         is
vulgar Lockite sense of substance, would mean that God the matter
                 :                                                      is
                                                                                         is is

                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                                        it
or stuff of which all things are made which would be the grossest Pan
                                                                 ;

theism but Substance,' in the true and ancient meaning of the word,

as appears in the Athanasian Creed, signifies the very opposite;

namely, that which stands under the appearance and the matter that by

virtue of which thing has its form, its life, its real existence as far as
                                    ;
                                        a
may have any and thus in asserting that God the Substance of all

things, this book means that every thing (except Sin, which no thing,
but the disease and fall of thing)
                                           a                     is     thought of God.
                                                                     a

" So, again, with Eternity. It will be found to mean not merely some

future endless duration, but that ever-present moral world, governed by

ever-living and absolutely necessary laws, in which we and all spirits are

now and in which we shall be equally, whether time and space, exten
;

sion and duration, and the whole material universe to which they belong,

became nothing this moment or lasted endlessly

Inadequate Salaries of Parish Doctors.                         427

   " Its reader must forget all popular modern dogmas and sys
tems, all popular philosophies, and be true to the letter of his Bible,
and to the instincts which the indwelling Word of God was wont to
awaken in his heart, while he was yet a little unsophisticated child : and
he will find germs of wider and deeper wisdom than its good author
ever dreamed of; and that those great spiritual laws which he only

applies, and that often inconsistently, to an ascetic and passively con
templative life, will hold just as good in the family, in the market, in the
senate, in the study, ay, in the battle-field itself, and teach him to lead
in whatsoever station of life he may be placed, a truly manlike, because
a truly Christlike and Godlike life."

   In the spring he went up to give evidence on two subjects

which he had much at heart before the House of Commons on
Sanitary Matters and on the insufficient pay of Parish Medical
Officers. His experience of eleven years in a parish had con
vinced him that the pay of the parish doctor was much too low ;

and he willingly gave evidence on the subject, dwelling particu
larly on the fact that under their present salaries no medical
men could afford, or be expected, to give two of the most impor

tant but most expensive medicines -- quinine and cod-liver oil.

                         TO HIS WIFE.

                                                                    CHELSEA RECTORY, May, 1854.

I" have just been having a very happy hour with my

mother at the school, where she has a nice little service for the girls, and
I have been preaching the little maids a sermon about the 2nd Lesson,
Ito her great delight. This evening go to the Marshalls' again for some
                                                               I
sacred music, and this afternoon, of course, to Lincoln's-inn

cannot help looking forward to our twelve months at Northdown (Bide-
                         We never have really wanted yet ; all
ford) as a blessed time
we have had to do has been -- best of all trainings -- to live by faith,

and to exert ourselves. Let us be content. We do not know what is
... Igood for us, and God does.
                         I am glad to have been up here.
Ihave seen very much life, and learnt very much. It was just what
Iwanted after that Devon retirement.
                                       went to meet Gosse at the

 and met Darwin          (the Voyage   of the             Such a noble
the average of the         Linnaeans,    must             * * * * is a
ILinnaean,                                      Beagle).
                                               say, had.
face -- as
Iquiet, meek man, and was very anxious to know whether and Maurice
really 'denied the Atonement,' on which point, I think, I satisfied him.

428 Charles Kingsley.

" We had a regular microscopic evening last night. George with his
microscope, and Mr. H    with his -- both magnificent. The things
Ithey showed me were enough to strike one dumb.
                                                 am enjoying the

thought of bringing Gosse's book down to you. He has a whole chapter
Iat the end on the things sent him most kindly written.
" Tell the dear children I long to see them, and will be home
                         "
Wednesday, without fail

   In the spring, as his wife was not allowed to return to the
colder climate of North Hants, he settled with his family at
Bideford, where his novel of "Westward, Ho!" was begun, whose
opening pages describe his surroundings for the next twelve

months.

   " All who have travelled through the delicious scenery of North

Devon must needs know the little white town of Bideford, which slopes

upwards from its broad tide-river paved with yellow sands, and many-
arched old bridge where salmon wait for autumn floods, towards the
pleasant upland on the west. Above the town the hills close in,
cushioned with deep oak woods, through which juts here and there a
crag of fern-fringed slate ; below they lower, and open more and more
in softly-rounded knolls, and fertile squares of red and green, till they
sink into the wide expanse of hazy flats, rich salt marshes, and rolling
sand hills, where Torridge joins her sister Taw, and both together flow

quietly toward the broad surges of the bar, and the everlasting thunder
of the Atlantic swell. Pleasantly the old town stands there, beneath its
soft Italian sky, fanned day and night by the fresh ocean breeze, which
forbids alike the keen winter frosts, and the fierce thunder heats of the

midland ; and pleasantly it has stood there for now, perhaps, eight
hundred years, since the first Grenvil, cousin of the Conqueror, return
ing from the conquest of South Wales, drew round him trusty Saxon
serfs, and free Norse rovers with their golden curls, and dark Silurian
Britons from the Swansea shore, and all the mingled blood which still
gives to the seaward folk of the next county their strength and intellect,
and even in these levelling days, their peculiar beauty of face and
form."*

   While there, a lady consulted him about joining a sisterhood,

and he replies :

· "Westward Ho !" Chapter I., p. I.

                      Brotherhoods and Societies.                                                       429

                                                         BlDEFORD, July 24, 1854.

" Madam,

          I" Though make a rule of never answering any letter from a
Ilady whom I have not the honour of knowing, yet dare not refuse to

answer yours. First, because you, as it were, challenge me on the

Iground of my books : and next, because you tell me that if cannot

satisfy you, you will do that, to prevent which, above all things, my
books are written, namely, flee from the world, instead of staying in it

and   trying to mendI                                                  in your dis
     Be sure that          it.
  "                   can       sympathise  with    you  most  deeply

satisfaction with all things, as they are. That feeling grows on me, as
                                                                                                        it I,
trust in God (strange to say) may grow on you, day by day.                                              too,
                                   it                                                                       I
                                                I,
have had my dreams of New Societies, brotherhoods, and so forth,

which were to regenerate the world.                 too, have had my admirations

for Old Societies and brotherhoods like those of Loyola and Wesley,

which intended to do the same thing. But have discovered, Madam,
                                   is is
                                                                around us, till
                                              I
that we can never really see how much evil there                it is
                                                                      is
we see how much good there                  around us, just as            light which

makes us, by contrast, most aware of darkness. And have dis
                                                                       I

covered also, that the world                already regenerated by the Lord

Jesus Christ, and that all efforts of our own to regenerate                                             are

denials of Him and of the perfect regeneration which He accomplished

when He sat down on the right hand of God, having all power given to

Him in heaven and in earth, that He might rule the earth in righteous

ness for ever. And              I  have discovered also, that all societies and

brotherhoods which may form, and which ever have been formed, are

denials of the One Catholic Church of faithful and righteous men
(whether Protestant or Roman Catholic, matters not to me) which He
has established on earth, and said that hell shall not prevail against it.

And when look back upon history, as have done pretty carefully,
find that all such attempts have been total failures, just because, with
     I
                                        I
                                                                       I

the purest and best intentions, they were doing this, and thereby interfer

ing with the Lord Jesus Christ's way of governing the world, and trying
to introduce some new nostrum and panacea of their own, narrow and

paltry, compared with His great ways in the deep.
   "Therefore, though Fox (to take your own example) was most holy

man, Quakerism in general, as a means of regenerating the world, has
been a disastrous failure. And so speak from years of intimate ex
     a
                                      is

                                     (I

                                                                                                     a
perience) has good John Wesley's Methodist attempt. Both were try
ing to lay new foundation for human society, and forgetting that one

which was already laid, which Christ, who surely has not been managing

430 Charles Kingsky.

the earth altogether wrongly, Madam, for 1800 years, or even before

that ?

   " So, again, with that truly holy and angelic man, St. Vincent de Paul --

has he succeeded ? What has become of education, and of the poor,

in the very land where he laboured ? God forbid that we English should

be in such a state, bad as we are ! The moment the personal influence
of his virtue was withdrawn, down tumbled all that he had done. He

(may God bless him all the same) had no panacea for the world's ills.
He was not a husband or a father-- how could he teach men to be good

husbands and fathers ? You point to what he and his did. I know
Iwhat they did in South America, and beautiful it was : but, alas !

know, too, that they could give no life to their converts ; they could not

regenerate society among the savages of Paraguay; and the moment

the Jesuit's gentle despotism was withdrawn, down fell the reductions
again into savagery, having lost even the one savage virtue of courage.

The Jesuits were shut out, by their vows, from political and family life.
How could they teach their pupils the virtues which belong to those states ?

But all Europe knows what the Jesuits did in a country where they had
every chance ; where for a century they were the real rulers, in court

Iand camp, as well as in schools and cloisters, mean in France. They
Itried their very best (and tried, am bound to believe, earnestly and

with good intent) to regenerate France.                And they caused the

Revolution. Madam, the horrors of 1793 were the natural fruit of the

teaching of the very men who not only would have died sooner than

bring about these horrors, but died too many of them, alas ! by them.
And how was this? By trying to set up a system of society and

morals of their own, they, without knowing uprooted in the French
                               it
                                                  it,
every element of faith in, and reverence for, the daily duties and relations
of human life, without knowing -- without meaning it. They would

call me slanderer they saw my words, and would honestly think me
'

               a

                           if
so. May God keep you from the same snare, of fancying, as all
 Orders,' Societies, and Sects do, that they invent a better system of

society than the old one, wherein God created man in His own image,

viz., of father and son, husband and wife, brother and sister, master and

servant, king and subject. Madam, these are more divine and godlike
words than all the brotherhoods, Societies of Friends,' Associations of
                               ''

                                   it

                                                    I
                                                                                  '

                                                                I

                                                                                                                       :

                                                                                             it
                                                                                                 is
the Sacred Heart,' or whatsoever bonds good and loving men and

women have from time to time invented to keep themselves in that

sacred unity from which they felt they were falling.   can well believe

that you feel difficult to keep in now. God knows that do but
I

      it

        I
never will (and trust you never will) yield to that temptation which
the Devil put before our Lord, Cast thyself down from hence, for

             The Duty which lies Nearest.                                             431

written He shall give His angels charge over Thee, &c.' Madam,

whenever we leave the station where God has placed us, be it for never

so seemingly self-sacrificing and chivalrous and saintly an end, we are

tempting the Lord our God, we are yielding most utterly to that very
self-will which we are pretending to abjure. As long as you have a

parent, a sister, a servant, to whom you can do good in those simple
every-day relations and duties of life, which are most divine, because

they are most human, so long will the entering a cloister be tempting the
Lord your God. And so long, Madam, will it be the doing all in your

power to counteract every word which I have ever written. My object

has been and and trust in God ever will be, to make people see that
             is,

                  I

                                                  if
they need not, as St. Paul says, go up into heaven, or go down to the

deep, to find Christ, because He, the Word whom we preach, very
near them, in their hearts and on their lips, they would but believe it;
                                                                                      is
and ready, not to set them afloat on new untried oceans of schemes and
                                                                                         I,
projects, but ready to inspire them to do their duty humbly and simply
                                                                                                !)
where He has put them -- and, believe me, Madam, the only way to re

generate the world to do the duty which lies nearest us, and not to
             it
                          is

                                     I

                                                      is I
Ifhunt after grand, far-fetched ones for ourselves.            each drop of rain

chose where should fall, God's showers would not fall, as they do now,
on the evil and on the good alike. know -- know from the experience
of my own heart -- how galling this doctrine --how, like Naaman, one

goes away in a rage, because the Prophet has not bid us do some great
thing,,but only to go and wash in the nearest brook, and be clean. But,

Madam, be sure that he who not faithful in little will never be fit to
be ruler over much. He who cannot rule his own household will never
             is

                                       ;
                                            a
(as St. Paul says) rule the Church of God and he who cannot keep his
temper, or be self-sacrificing, cheerful, tender, attentive at home, will

never be of any real and permanent use to God's poor abroad.
   " Wherefore, Madam, as you say, you feel what St. Francis de
             '
               a

                                      if,

                                                            '
Sales calls  dryness of soul about good works and charity, consider

;well within yourself, whether the simple reason, and (no shame on you
be not only because God does not wish you just yet to labour among
the poor because He has not yet finished educating you for that good

work, and therefore will not let you handle tools before you know how

to use them.

   " Begin with small things, Madam -- you cannot enter the presence of

another human being without finding there more to do than you or or

any soul, will ever learn to do perfectly before we die. Let us be content

to do little, God sets us at little tasks.
             ' if                                              but pride and self-will

                                                                                  ?'

                                                     It

                                                                        is

                                                                 I
which says, give me something huge to fight, -- and should enjoy that
-- but why make me sweep the dust
                                                               Finally, Madam, be sure of

43 2 Charles Kingsley.

one thing, that the Lord Jesus Christ is King of this earth, and all
therein ; and that if you will do faithfully what He has set you to already,

and thereby using the order of a Deaconess well, gain to yourself a

good foundation in your soul's training, He will give you more to do

in His good time, and of His good kind.

  If" you are inclined to answer this letter, let me ask you not to

answer it for at least three months to come. It may be good for you to

have read it over a second time.                                servant,

                               " I am, Madam,
                                               " Your obedient

                                                                "C. Kingsley."

                  TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                  [On the death of his father.]

I" was gladdened to day by the sight of your handwriting, and much
Iashamed to think that
  I I" That have felt for
                      had not  written to  you                  not  say.  But in both
                      you and  with you,     need
sorrows there has been, I had almost said, more good than evil. Still I

can conceive the awful feeling of having the roots which connect one

/with the last generation seemingly torn up, and having to say, ' now

am the root, I stand self-supported, with no older stature to rest on.'

And then one must believe that God is the God of Abraham, and that

all live to Him, and that we are no more isolated and self-supported

than when we were children on our mother's bosom. But you taught

Ime that, so need not teach it you.
  " About Edinburgh. After all, I hope you will not go. It would be

leaving so much half done ; tearing so many little growing root-fibres in
Iyoung men's hearts.
                  "   have half regretted several times having men

tioned it to you

                                       TO THE SAME.

                                                                                                  BIDEFORD, October 19.

   " . . . . We think of nothing here but the war. So many friends

Iand relations are in it. But can only look on it with satisfaction (awful

as war is), and with disgust at the arrogance and virulence of certain
daily newspapers, which seem determined, the cowardly hirelings, to
hunt Lord Raglan and Sir Charles Napier to death if they could, as they
hunted poor Sir John Moore of old. But thank God, Lord Raglan's
training under the Duke has taught him to despise in silence the
anonymous curs at home, and the disappointed grumblers in camp, who,

as his great master knew too well, are worse enemies than any French

                           Elizabethan Books and Men.                                                                 433

or Russians. But all will go well, please God ; and ' the ancient spirit

is  not dead,' as    the heights of the     Alma prove.                    I Iwish could help
    " As to your     people's college, it   is a noble plan.
in It certainly the thing which wanted, and you are the man to
I              is                        a
                                                       is
       it it.    II
                                                                       ;

                                                             I

                                                                                            if
get done.            should like to know the names of your staff -- perhaps

    had details could find you man or two but am shut up like any

Jeremiah here, living on the newspapers and my old Elizabethan books.
The novel more than half done, and most ruthless bloodthirsty book
               is                        I

                                                   it a

                                                   I
                                                              *
                                                                   *

                                                                 I*

                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                   '
it      (just what the times want, think).                    * * will be horribly
    is

scandalised at the reverence which pays throughout to that much

misunderstood politician,' Judge Lynch.                am afraid have little of

the wolf-vein in me, in spite of fifteen centuries of civilisation, and so,                                           aI

sometimes suspect, have you, and            you had not you would not be as
                                            if

                                                        a

                                                                       ;

                                                            I
                                                                    iIf a

                                                                         I
tender and loving as you are. Sooner one caress from mastiff than

twenty from                spaniel.      wish you were here, want to ask you
                     (I a             I

thousand things.        I          am sometimes very sad always very puzzled, and

long to be rid am ashamed to say) of great deal of which ought

not to be rid. This war would have made me half mad,                       had let it.

It seemed so dreadful to hear of those Alma heights being taken and

not be there but God knows best, and suppose am not fit for such
               ;;                        I
                                                I

                                                             'I
brave work but only like Camille Desmoulins, une pauvre cre'ature,

ne'e pour faire des vers.' But can fight with my pen still don't
Ifmean in controversy -- am sick of that.                                  it,
                                   I                   one went on at             would
                                                                             it (I

make one very Billingsgate fishwife, screaming and scolding, when
               a
                      is
one knows one safe, and then running away when one expects to have
one's attack returned). -- Not in controversy, but in writing books which
will make others fight. This one to be called Westward Ho and
                                            is                                   !'
                                                                        '

"Ifits motto old Demosthenes'.is
           you will consider these things, you will note worthily TUiV iv

    " hope to have the MSS. in the printer's hands by Christmas had
I                                                                          is
    I                                                                           itbut not
    more time could have made more finished thing of
               a                         a                                            ;

                 'I                              :                               I
                                                                                              ;
perhaps more popular one, and immediate popularity what have

aimed at. Mercenary you will say but there are reasons, which you'

may guess, and have tried to obey the catechism, and even in hurry
                     I                                        iIf
                                                                  I
spe"aTk htehewtrriutitnhg  always  and  be honest and  kind to  all        been  living
                            of     has  done me much    good.                    !have
                           it
                                                                            I

                                                                                                   aa

                                                                                        I in
those Elizabethan books, among such grand, beautiful, silent men, that

am learning to be sure of what all along suspected, that am poor
                                         I

queazy, hysterical half-baked sort of a fellow, who would not have

been half as good boy as Alexander Smith,                       had not had ten times
                     I.
                                a
his advantages, and so am inclined to sing small, and am by no means

               VOL.                                                              F
                                                                                     F

434 Charles Kingsley.

Ihopeful about my book, which seems to me only half as good as could

have written, and only one-hundredth as good as ought to be written
on the matter ; but at least God bless you."

                                                                             BIDEFORD, December, 1854.

  I"You must think me very forgetful. I am not that, though; for
whenever Iwant reason fall back on your books. But I have been

laid up with influenza, and before and since cgarc with this foolish

Ihistorical novel of mine, which is now, am happy to say, all but done.

I IHow

   "
    goes on  the People's College     ?   the                          war.       think of little else, to
    suppose  the world only talks
Ithe great detriment of my book.      of

                                      should like to know what men like

Spedding and Venables think of                                       see my way through politics, as
                   a
                                    ?

                                            it.

                                   I

                                                                    '
through everything else, less and less, and believe more and more that

the present ministry see as far as any one else, and are doing their best.

Who ever saw far in storm which, by the very nature of clouds and
                                                                                  it,
                                                                                         have
                                                                                      I
narrows the whole horizon with boundless ugly possibilities.

sent strong letter by Hughes to the Morning Chronicle,' in favoura
of this much-abused Foreign Legion Bill, but he has not told me

its fate.

  "Au reste, F., with occasional little relapses, gets steadily better and

better. The glorious climate, and, what more, the complete rest, are
                in

                           I
                                                          is
doing her wonderful good.  am utterly without men companions, save

the old sea-dogs the old books, and want no others just now though
                                                                                  ;

                                                                                           I

get an occasional day's woodcock-shooting from an old schoolfellow,

which gives me fresh life to write."

                     TO T. HUGHES, ESQ.

    ...." As to the War,                             BIDEFORD, December 18, 1854.

                                   am getting more of Government
                           I                                                      a

                               is /                                                     I
man every day.  don't see how they could have done better in any                                  is
       ' is                                                                                      I
matter, because don't see but that                                   should have done a thousand
           Ia
               I II
times worse in their place, and that the only fair standard.
    " As for ballad -- oh my dear lad, there
                     a!                                                I         no use fiddling while
                                                                            is
Rome burning.        have nothing to sing about those glorious fellows,

except God save the Queen and them.'                                          tell you the whole thing

stuns me, so cannot sit down to make fiddle rhyme with diddle about
  --or blundered with hundred, like Alfred Tennyson. He
it                                                                                                      no

Tyrtsus, though he has glimpse of what Tyrtaeus ought to be. But

have not even that and am going rabbit-shooting to-morrow instead.
                ;

But every man has his calling, and my novel                                  is  mine, because am fit

for nothing better. The book Westward Ho will be out the middle
                           ('                                                !

                                                                              )'

                      Abou Zennab and his Horse.                                                             435

or end of January, if the printers choose. It is a sanguinary book, but

perhaps containing doctrine profitable for these times. My only pain is

Ithat have been forced to sketch poor Paddy as a very worthless fellow

then, while just now he is turning out a hero.
I" have made the deliberate amende honorable in a note.

"I suppose " (referring to some criticism of Mr. H.'s on 'Westward
Ho ! " you are right as to Amyas and his mother
a '),                                                                                     will see to it.
                                                                     a

                                                                                     ;I
                                                                                                  I
The letter in Purchas to me unknown, but your conception agrees
                         is
                                    a
with picture my father says he has seen of Captain John (he thinks at
Lord Anglesey's, at Beaudesert), as prim, hard, terrier-faced little

fellow with sharp chin, and dogged Puritan eye. So perhaps am
       Ia
wrong but don't think that very important, for there must have been
:

sea"-dTougms mofasmy  stamp in    plenty   too.                      of    Abou  Zennab,  his   horse, in
                      Have you     read   the story
a

                       '

                    a

                                 !

                                  p.
                                           ?

                                                                  !

                                 Ia
IfStanley's Sinai,' 67 What myth What poem old Wordsworth
                                                                     !

                                                                                     aaa
would have writ thereon                                              didn't cry like baby over  it.          What

brick of horse he must have been, and what brick of an old head-

splitter Abou Zennab must have been, to have his commandments

keeped unto this day concerning of his horse and no one to know who
                                                                     I
                                                                            ;

                                                                                   ' if
he was, nor when, nor how, nor nothing.                                    wonder anybody 'll keep

our commandments         '"after  we  be gone,                       much  less  say,     Eat, eat, oh horse
of Abou Kingsley
                      !

                                                                                                F
                                                                                                    F
                                                                                                          2


                 CHAPTER XIV.

                                                         1855-
                                                            AGED 36.
BIDEFORD --CRIMEAN WAR-- DEATH OF HIS FRIEND CHARLES BLACHFORD

     MANSFIELD -- "WESTWARD Ho" -- LETTERS FROM MR. HENRY DRUMMOND

      AND RAJAH BROOKE -- DRAWING CLASS FOR MECHANICS AT BIDEFORD -- ·
      LEAVES DEVONSHIRE-- LECTURES TO LADIES IN LONDON --CORRESPOND
      ENCE--WINTER AT FARLEY COURT -- THE "HEROES" WRITTEN.

THEN in such hour of need
Of your fainting, dispirited race,
Ye, like angels, appear,

Radiant with ardour divine.

Beacons of hope, ye appear !

Languor is not in your heart,

Weakness is not in your word,

Weariness not on your brow.
Ye alight in our van ; at your voice,

Panic, despair, flee away.
Ye move through the ranks, recall
The stragglers, refresh the out-worn

Praise, re-inspire the brave.

Order, courage, return.

Eyes re-kindling and prayers,
Follow your steps as ye go.
Ye fill up the gaps in our files,

Strengthen the wavering line,

Stablish, continue our march

On to the bound of the waste,                   ARNOLD.
On to the city of God.

                                       MATTHEW

       CHAPTER XIV.

   THE Crimean winter, bitter alike to the brave men before
Sebastopol and to the hearts of all Englishmen and women at
home, weighed heavily on Charles Kingsley, to whom the War

was like a dreadful nightmare, which haunted him day and

night. " I can think of nothing but the war," he said, and

on the receipt of a letter from a friend which told him of the
numbers of tracts sent out to the soldiers which they never

read and looked upon as so much waste paper, and urging him

to write something which would touch them, he sat down,

wrote off, and despatched the same day to London a tract which

is probably known to few in England --" Brave Words to Brave

Soldiers." Several thousand copies were sent out and distributed

in the Crimea, and the stirring words touched many a noble

soul. It was published anonymously to avoid the prejudice

which was attached to the name of its author in all sections

of the religious world and press at that period.

   To his friend Mr. Tom Hughes he writes at this moment :

" You may have fancied me a bit of a renegade and a hanger-back  of

late.  " Still in our ashes live their wonted fires."

IAnd if have held back from the Socialist Movement, it has been
Ibecause have seen that the world was not going to be set right in any

such rose-pink way, excellent as it and that there are heavy arrearsI
                                         is,
of destruction to be made up, before construction can even begin and;I
wanted to see what those arrears were. And do see little. At
                                              I        a

least see that the old phoenix must burn, before the new one can rise
I

out of its ashes.           quite agree with you about that--if
   " Next, as to our army.
                                                                 it

existed to agree about. But the remnant that comes home, like gold

44° Charles Kingsley.

tried in the fire, may be the seed of such an army as the world never
saw. Perhaps we may help it to germinate. But please don't compare
the dear fellows to Cromwell's Ironsides. There is a great deal of
'personal' religion in the army, no doubt : and personal religion may
help men to endure, and complete the bull-dog form of courage : but
the soldier wants more. He wants a faith that he is fighting on God's
side ; he wants military and corporate and national religion, and that is

I Iwhat fear he has yet to get, and what tried to give in my tract.

That is what Cromwell's Ironsides had, and by it they conquered.
That is what the Elizabethans had up to the Armada, and by it they
 conquered."

   To Miss Marsh he writes on the death of Captain Hedley

Vicars, 93rd Regiment, who was shot in a sortie, March 23,

                         NORTH DOWN HOUSE, BIDEFORD, May 9, 1855.

  ". . . . These things  are most bitter, and the only comfort
Iwhich can see in them    that they are bringing us all face to face
                         is,
                                       it
with the realities of human life, as has been in all ages, and giving us

sterner and yet more loving, more human, and more divine thoughts

about ourselves, and our business here, and the fate of those who are

gone, and awakening us out of the luxurious, frivolous, unreal dream

(full nevertheless  of harsh judgments,     and   dealings  forth of damnation,)
in which we have    been living so long    -- to  trust in    Living Father who
                    !;

                                                                      a
                                                                                               is
    really and practically governing this world and all worlds, and who
willeth that none should perish -- and therefore has not forgotten, or
is
suddenly begun to hate or torment, one single poor soul which pastis

out of this life into some other, on that accursed Crimean soil. All areis

in our Father's hands and as David says, Though they go down into
hell, He there. Oh blessed thought -- more blessed to me at this

moment (who think more of the many than of the few) than the other
.....thought, that though they ascend into heaven with your poor lost hero,
He there also       "

   During the winter, on the 25th of February, sorrow came,
and God took from him, for time, one who had been his beloved

friend for seventeen years, the ever welcomed guest in his home

since his marriage, and dear to his wife and children as to
himself. His own words, partly from slight prefatory sketch,*
                         a
                                           a

                                                                a

* "Brazil, Buenos Ayres, and Paraguay," by Charles B. Mansfield, Esq., with a
Sketch of the Author's Life, by Rev. Charles Kingsley. (Macmillan, 1856).

            Charles Mansfield.                                          441

partly from some notes found among his private papers, will

best describe Charles Blachford Mansfield ; and to those who
love to dwell on fair pictures of God's works, this picture of a
human being, moulded into His image, may be acceptable and
inspiring. Any record of Charles Kingsley would be incomplete
unless it included a glimpse of one who was so entwined with his

Cambridge days, with the rectory life at Eversley, with the winter

in Devonshire, and at times when the presence of any other third
person would have been an interruption.

  " I knew Charles Mansfield first when he was at Clare Hall in 1838-9.

sometime in my freshman's winter. He was born in the year 1819, at a

Hampshire parsonage, and in due time went to school at Winchester, in

the old days of that iron rule among masters, and that brutal tyranny

among the boys themselves, which are now fast disappearing before the

example of influence of the great Arnold. Crushed at the outset, he gave

little evidence of talent beyond his extraordinary fondness for mechanical

science. But the regime of Winchester told on his mind in after life for

good and for evil; first, by arousing in him a stern horror of injustice

(and in that alone he was stern), which showed itself when he rose to
the higher forms, by making him the loving friend and protector of all

the lesser boys ; and next, by arousing in him a doubt of all precedents,

a chafing against all constituted authority, of which he was not cured

till after long and sad experience. What first drew me to him was the

combination of body and mind. He was so wonderfully graceful, active,

and daring. He was more like an antelope than a man. He had a

gymnastic pole in his room on which he used to do strange feats. There

was a seal-skin, too, hanging in his room, a mottled two-year-old skin,

about five feet long, of a seal which was shot by him down on the Cornish

coast. The seal came up to the boat side and stared at him, and he knocked

it over. That thing haunted him much in after life. He deplored it as all

but a sin, after he had adopted the notion that it was wrong to take away

animal life, for which he used to scold me in his sweet charitable way,

for my fishing and entomologizing. He has often told me that the ghost

of the seal appeared to him in his dreams, and stood by his bed, bleed

ing",  and   making him wretched.         of his  boat  at  Cambridge,  I think.
            was a good shot, and captain
       He
IHis powers of leaping standing, exceeded almost any man's ever saw.
I believe him to have been physically incapable of fear. And since

his opinions changed, and during the last war, he has said to me that

he wished he was at Sebastopol, handling a rifle, I have been tempted

442 Charles Kingsley,

Ito wish that he had been a soldier, so splendid a one do think he would

have made.

   "The next thing which drew me to him was his intellect, not merely

that he talked of the highest things, but he did it in such a wonder
ful way. He cared for nothing but truth. He would argue by the hour,

but never for arguing sake. None can forget the brilliance of his con

versation, the eloquence with which he could assert, the fancy with

which he could illustrate, the earnestness with which he could enforce, the

sweetness with which he could differ, the generosity with which he could

yield. Perhaps the secret of that fascination, which even at Cambridge,

and still more in after life, he quite unconsciously exercised over all who

really knew him (and often, too, over those who but saw him for a passing
minute, or heard him in a passing sentence, yet went away saying that

Ithey had never met his like), was that virtue of earnestness. When

first met him at Cambridge he was very full of Combe's works, and of
' Volney's Ruins of Empires.' He was what would be called a

materialist, and used to argue stoutly on it with me, who chose to be
Isomething of a dualist or gnostic.
                                      forget my particular form of folly.
But I felt all through that his materialism was more spiritual than other

men's spiritualism, because he had such an intense sense of the truly
spiritual; of right and wrong. He was just waiting for the kingdom of

God. . . . When the truth was shown to him, he leapt up and em

braced               There was the most intense faith in him from the first that
   a
          it.
Right was right, and wrong wrong that Right must conquer that there
                              ;I                                           ;
                                                   ;
                                                                             is
                                                     it
was kingdom of God Eternal in the heavens, an ideal righteous polity,

to which the world ought to be, and some day would be, conformed.

That was his central idea     don't say he saw clearly from the first
                                                             it                  it
                                                                   it                 in ;

                                                                     I
   don't say that he did not lose sight of at times, but know that he
I

            it,
saw for he was the first human being that taught to me. Added to

this unconquerable faith in good, was an unconquerable faith in truth.
                                                             If thing
He first taught me not to be afraid of truth.                '                   so, you
                                                                     a

can't be the worse for knowing    it       so,' was his motto, and well he
                                      it is
carried out. This was connected, seems to me, with his intense
                 it

conscientiousness. Of course that faculty can be diseased, like any other,

and men may conscientiously do wrong. But what corrected

him in after life, and prevented  it  from becoming mere obstinacy and

fanaticism, was his wonderful humility. That grew on him after his con
version. He had not at starting. At first he was charming, but wilful
                     it
and proud. Afterwards he was just as charming, but too apt to say toit

                          I'
any and to every one, Here am send me But of his conscientiousness
                              I,

                                                         !'

I  could write pages.         will not here though, perhaps never --such fas-

*astic forms did take. All knight-errant honour which ever heard of,
                                                                        I

                         Charles Mansfield.                            443

that man might have, perhaps has, actually outdone. From the time of

his leaving Cambridge he devoted himself to those sciences which had

been all along his darling pursuits. Ornithology, geology, mesmerism,

even old magic, were his pastimes ; chemistry and dynamics his real

work. He was a great ornithologist from childhood ; he knew eggs

especially well : one of his plans, because he did not like shooting the

birds, was to observe them on the trees with a telescope ; and though not
' musical ' in the common sense, he knew the note of every English bird.

I never knew him wrong. The history of his next ten years is fantastic

enough, were it written, to form material for any romance. Long periods

of voluntary penury, when (though a man of fair  worldly fortune) he would
subsist on the scantiest fare-- a few dates and  some brown bread, or a
few lentils -- at the cost of a few pence a day, bestowing his savings on

the poor; bitter private sorrows, which were schooling his heart and

temper into a tone more purely angelic than I have ever seen in man ;

magnificent projects, worked out as far as they would go, not wildly and

superficially, but on the most deliberate and accurate grounds of science,

then thrown away in disappointment, for some fresh noble dream ; an

intense interest in the social and political condition of the poor, which

sprang up in him, to his great moral  benefit, during   the last five  years
of his life. Here were the elements   of his schooling                  one,
                                                        --as hard a

both voluntary and involuntary, as ever human soul went through. In

Iall my life never heard that man give vent to a low or mean word,
or evince a low or mean sentiment. Though he had never, I suppose,

seen much of the ' grand monde,' he was the most perfectly, well-bred

Iman at all points ever saw ; and exquisite judges have said the same

thing. His secret seemed very simple, if one could attain it ; but he

      It

                                     a;
                                                            it,
                                                                       it

                                                                                a
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                   in
attained it by not trying to attain   for was merely never thinking

about himself. He was always thinking how to please others in the

most trivial matters and that, not to make them think well of him

(which breeds only affectation), but just to make them comfortable: and
                         trail of light wherever he went.
that  was why he left    utterly wonderful to me in after life, knowing                                                all
         was wonderful,
   "

that lay on his heart, to see the way he flashed down over the glebe at

Eversley, with his knapsack at his back, like shining star appearing

with peace on earth and good-will to men, and bringing an involuntary
smile into the faces of every one who met him -- the compelled reflection

of his own smile. And his voice was like the singing of bird its

wonderful cheerfulness, and tenderness, and gaiety.
   " At last, when he was six and thirty years of age, his victory in the

battle of life seemed complete. His enormous and increasing labour

seemed rather to have quickened and steadied than tired his brain. The

444 Charles Kingsley.

clouds which had beset his path had all but cleared, and left sunshine

and hope for the future. His spirit had become purified, not only into

doctrinal orthodoxy, but also into a humble, generous, and manful piety,

such as I cannot hope often to behold again. He had gathered round

him friends, both men and women, who looked on him with a love such

as might be inspired by a being from a higher world. He was already

recognised as one of the most promising young chemists in England, for

whose future renown no hope could be too high-pitched ; and a patent

for a chemical discovery which he had obtained, seemed, after years of

delay and disappointment, to promise him what he of all men coveted

least, renown and wealth. One day he was at work on some experiments

connected with his patent. By a mistake of the lad who assisted him,

the apparatus got out of order, the naphtha boiled over, and was already

on fire. To save the premises from the effect of an explosion, Mr.

Mansfield caught up the still in his arms, and attempted to carry it out ;

the door was fast ; he tried to hurl it through the window, but too late.

The still dropped from his hands, half flayed with liquid fire. He

scrambled out, rolled in the snow, and so extinguished the flame.

Fearfully burnt and bruised, he had yet to walk a mile to reach a cab,

and was taken to Middlesex Hospital, where, after nine days of agony,

he died like a Christian man.
    " Oh, fairest of souls ! Happy are those who knew thee in this life !

Happier those who will know thee in the life to come !  " C. K."

   They are together now ! Two true and perfect knights of

God, perchance on some fresh noble quest !

   Little has been recovered of the correspondence of this year,
much of which sprung out of the publication of " Westward
Ho ! " That book was dedicated to Rajah Brooke and Bishop
Selwyn, and produced the following letter from Mr. Henry
Drummond, and, at a later period, one from the Rajah himself.

                    ALBEMARLE STREET, May 13, 1855.

"DEAR SIR,--

" I have just seen your noble dedication of ' Westward Ho !' to

Sir J. Brooke, and have taken the liberty to desire a copy of the shame
Iful trial to which he has been subjected to be sent you, as am sure it
Iwill gratify you.
                    heard from him last week : he is quite well, and all
his work prospering. A remarkable thing is about to take place in

Sarawak. The people finding themselves dealt with in a manner so

           Rajah Brooke and " Westward Ho ! "                                        445

superior to that in which they are dealt with by their own rulers, have

considered that the religion of their present governor must be the true

religion, and accordingly are about to apply en masse to become

members of Brooke's religion. In my opinion the only means which

should be used towards heathen is the manifestation of mercy, justice,

and truth. The poor bishop's trouble will begin after he has got his

converts.
I" Begging
           pardon       for  this  intrusion"   from a stranger,
                                                  am, Sir,
                        "
                             With  great admiration of your       writings,
                                   " Your obedient Servant,

                                                " Henry Drummond."

RAJAH SIR JAMES BROOKE TO REV. CHARLES KINGSLEY.

" My dear Sir,--                                        Dawlish, March 24, 1859.

           I" have long delayed to thank you in person for a very

welcome dedication to ' Westward Ho !' but business, with many cares,

I Ipre"vencteadnnomt,e. however, now that  hear of your kind interest in my

cause, and the exertions you are making to advance
                                                        I           forbear from

                                                               I

                                                                      it,
                                                                                 it
assuring you of my sense of your good opinion, and the good does

me mentally. My life pretty well at its dregs, and shall be glad
                           is
indeed to pass the few remaining months or years in quiet, and freeit
                                        is
from the anxieties which must beset the post have occupied, but
                                     II a
which of late years have been increased tenfold, owing to the course or

rather no course pursued by the Government.

   " It sad but true experience, that everything has succeeded with

the natives, and everything has failed with the English in Borneo.
am anxious to retire, for Sarawak should not be ruled by failing man,
and would not cling to power when unable to discharge its duties.

   " In due time would fain hand over my staff to my successor
I                                               I
      is                                                 a
           a                                                            it. a

           I if I                                                         if I
permitted; but forced to return to Sarawak, to bear its anxieties and

share its trials, shall know               duty though trying one, and shall

not begrudge the exertion for the short time can make
   " Let me thank you, then, for your kindness, and let me have the

satisfaction of knowing you before leave this country.
   " Whenever go again to town, will let you hear from me, in the
           I

hope  you  will invite  me to visit you.
                                     " Believe
                                                me, my  dear  Sir,
                                                " Yours very sincerely,

                                                                  "J. Brooke."

446 Charles Kingsley.

  In answer to a valuable critique on "Westward Ho!" Mr.
Kingsley writes :

                  TO J. COLE, ESQ.

                                                  Eversley, January 7, 1866.

" I have received a copy of the ' North Devon Journal,' contain

ing a lecture of yours on Barnstaple, which greatly interested me.

I IPray let me thank you for it heartily, and say at once, that on any

points on which you and may seem to differ, give way at once to

your plainly superior local knowledge; and cry 'Jam/am efficaci do
manus sciential

  I" wrote 'Westward Ho !' without any access to town records, much

more to state papers, chiefly by the light of my dear old Hakluyt.

I had always been puzzled by the small mention of Barnstaple in the
Idocuments which knew, and had supposed that it being the port,

Bideford vessels were registered as belonging to Barnstaple ; while Sir

Richard Grenvile, who then seems to have had one home in Bideford,

and another at Tapeley, was lord and master, and took the glory, while

he did the work.
   " As for my
of the Armada,     date for the   ships    being   stopped before the coming
                                  have    got it  from some of the Hakluyt
                  I think I must
ISociety's publications, for always tried to be as accurate as possible.
IBut pray convince me of errors as much as you will, as long as you do
it in the kindly spirit of your lecture.   have evidently been unjust to

Barnstaple, simply from ignorance, though the assertion that Bideford

(a century after) sent more vessels to the northern trade than any port

save Topsham and London is a bond fide quotation            Heaven

knows if it be true; for what is true in history?

  " But even if you proved me wrong twenty times over, I should still
rejoice, as a West-countryman, if my crude romance has helped to

West-countrymen to                search   out the records  of their ancestors'
                                    never
and prove --which                           doubted --that   there were more
waken up

Iprowess ;
Ibrave fellows ' down-along' than even had thought of.
" Let me add that Froude, my dear friend and our fellow Devonshire
man, has thrown much light on the buccaneering of our western men in
his last volumes. He has still more facts by him, unpublished. He is

going now to Seville, to search, as far as he is allowed, the records of

the Inquisition, and expects to find yet more.

   "Let me add also. Why do you not take up, and work out, the

great Exodus from North Devon to Ireland, which began with Queen Eliza
beth, and went on through James's and into Charles's reign ; and which

                        The Unpardonable Sin.                       447

left at least Chichesters, Fortescues, St. Legers (these last, my wife's
ancestors), as Irish peers, and Dobbs's, Wills's, Berry's, &c., as Irish

squires ?--from your part they came, for good or ill-- and their history
should be worked out. Sir Humphrey Gilbert was the projector of the

scheme."

                        TO A WESLEYAN MINISTER.

              (Who wrote to thank him for his books. )

                                                                                                  April, 1855.

" Most truly "pleasant it is to me to find that my words have gone

home to the heart of any man, and much more to that of one employed

in preaching Christ's Gospel. Churchman as I am I can bid any man

God-speed who really wishes to preach ' deliverance to captives, and

recovery of sight to the blind, and an acceptable year of the Lord.'

Do you do so ? and is the year of the Lord which you preach accept

able, or awful, horrible, a slander to Him who hateth nothing that He

hath made, who hath made all men, and all things, save sin, and desires

to deliver men from sin, and therefore will assuredly, unless evil be

stronger than good, and God's creation a failure, see His desire ful
Ifilled ?
              only ask you this question first that by your answer to it we

ma"y  know    how deep  our  sympathy extends.       you will find my views,
      As for  works on  the  working class problems

and those of far wiser men than me, in ' Politics for the People.'
I" And now thank you heartily for the manner of your letter, and
IGod heartily for the matter of it. Write to me again.
                                                            am not a man

of many compliments, and you need not be to me a man of many
excuses ; for who am I, and who are you, if we both are in earnest, but

mortal souls too weak to dispense with any help, any love which can

lighten for us the burden of life's stormy and dark road?"

                                     TO , ESQ.

                                                                              Bideford, May, 1855.

  " I was pained enough at the receipt of your letter this morning ;
Ibut can only entreat you not to despair where there is no need to do

so. And as for the ' sin against the Holy Ghost,' let neither man nor
devil torment you with that old worn-out lie, and slander of God's
eternal love and long-suffering. In the first place, all sins whatsoever
are sins against the Holy Spirit, whether conscious or unconscious ; but
who is mad enough to say that therefore they are without forgiveness ?
But the passage which seems to torment you, and has tormented

448 Charles Kingsley.

many, has you will read carefully) special meaning on the veryit.
face of
            (if
   " Our Lord says, when the Pharisees said that He cast out devils by
Beelzebub, that they were committing an utterly unpardonable sin --
                                 it
                                                        a
                                                                                       is,
blaspheming (i.e. speaking evil of) the Holy Spirit; that                                   they were

attributing good and godlike deeds, because merciful and beneficent

deeds, to an evil principle, instead of recognizing in them the                                                               sure
                                                                                                                              sees
mark of  a      Divine principle. In plain English, they were bigots.
   " This
                was their sin. And         one which one often enough
                                    it
                                        is
                                             is
                                                                             it,
(shuddering) committed, or something fearfully like                               now-a-days in

our religious wars and hatred; but what has that to do with these

struggles between your flesh and God's spirit, while your own spirit (as
every line of your letter shows)           arrayed on the side of God's

spirit against your flesh, and will therefore most assuredly conquer in

the end?
" Besides, see why this sin of the Pharisees
                                                        unpardonable. Because
                       it.
                                                                   is

                                                                                                       it.
they cannot repent of            If they could repent they would be forgiven

so facto. To that primary eternal moral law God has sworn again
ip

           (I
and again in the bible, and nothing whatsoever can countervail                                                                But

the bigot        mean, of course, the complete one) cannot repent, simply

because he thinks himself right, even though he make out God wrong                                                            ;

himself true, though God be liar; and his insane self-satisfaction
                                    a
forms an eternal bar to any metanoia, or change of mind. Moreover, to;

repent to turn from sin, to God and how can he, who says he has
is
            is
no sin, and who has forgotten where God and what God that He
                                           is                                     is
                                              is,                                       is,
mercy and love, and His Spirit the spirit whose mercy over all His
                                                    '
works? Thus the bigot's moral sense                  gone and dead, or rather

inverted, and he says to himself, more or less, Evil be thou my good.'

And such state of mind must breed fresh sins, misery and ruin to all
       ;
              a                            lasts. That          the meaning of the
time and eternity, as long as       it            it

                                       ?                    is
matter but what in heaven or earth has to do with you, and your

sins,   though they be red   as   blood    about  '  impossible to renew them
       The other passages        Hebrews
   "                        in

to repentance,' should not trouble you either. Neither vi. 4, and sqq.,
nor xii. 16-17. They are both distinct warnings addressed to the Jews
of that day, that they did fall back from the Christian development
of their national covenant and life, into their old Jewish superstition
       if

                         a

                       if

                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                           a
and brutal worldliness, they would perish with their nation that great

historic crisis, one last opportunity for the Jewish nation, was at hand,
and they lost that, the destruction was hopeless. As the event

proved, the city and religion being destroyed by Titus, and the Jews
remaining spiritually dead to this day.

             Drawing Class for Young Men.                449

" Remark, too, that Esau, the very man who ' found no place for

repentance,' was not damned ; but blessed in his own way, and in the

way which was best for him, as a lower-natured man, and given the
' fatness of the earth, and the dew of heaven,' and a warrior-kingdom !

   " So much for the plain fact of texts which the devil and his best

emissaries, bigots who make a God in their own image, dark, cruel, and

capricious, use to torment poor souls, and frighten them from arising
and going to their Father, and saying, Father, I hate myself; but Thou
Ilovest me.
             do not understand myself; but Thou dost, and wilt be
merciful to the work of Thine own hands. I cannot guide and help

myself, but Thou canst, and wilt, too, because Thou art my Father, and

nothing can part me from Thy love, or from the love of Thy Son, my

IKing, as often as I come and claim my share in Thee, just because

have nothing, and can bring Thee nothing, but lie at Thy gate as a

beggar full of sores, desiring to be fed with the crumbs from Thy table.

And if I would feed and nurse in such a case, not my own child merely,

but the Russian* who shot him the other day in battle, how much

more wilt Thou, whose name is Love, and whose glory is the likeness
                                                         ALL ye that are
                          said, ' Come
                         will give you                     ye, being evil,
IfwofeaTryhyandSonheaJevysulsadeCnh,risatn, dwhIo
                                                 to me,
                                                 rest.

know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall

your Heavenly Father give His Holy Spirit to them that ask him?'"

   Having no parish work at Bideford, except during an
outburst of cholera, when he took a district for house to house

visitation, and occasional duty at Northam, Hartland, and Abbot-

sham, he lectured on the Fine Arts, and got up a drawing-class
for young men, of which one of the members, Mr. Plucknett,
(now head of a great firm for the design and manufacture of
art furniture and decoration in Warwick and Leamington,)

feelingly speaks in a letter to Mrs. Kingsley :

                                                 Warwick, April, 1876.

" I was a youth in Bideford at the time Mr. Kingsley came to

reside there, when seeing the young men of the town hanging about

wasting their leisure hours in worse than wasting, his heart yearned to

do them good. He at first endeavoured to establish a Government

School of Art-- this, however, failed. He then offered to teach a class
drawing --gratuitously.  A few of us held a meeting, and hired a

                         * Time of Crimean War.

450 Charles Kingsley.

room in the house of the Poet Postman, Edward Capern, who, although

a married man, much older than the rest of us, was a most hard
working pupil. I look back upon those evenings at Bideford as the
Ipleasantest part of my life, and, with God's blessing,
                                                         attribute my
Isuccess in life to the valuable instruction received from Mr. Kingsley :

his patience, perseverance, and kindness won all our hearts, and not

one of his class but would have given his life for the master. He used,

as no doubt you remember, to bring fresh flowers from his conservatory

for us to copy as we became sufficiently advanced to do so ; and still

further on he gave us lectures on anatomy, illustrating the subject with

chalk drawings on a large black board. His knowledge of geometry,

perspective, and free-hand drawing, was wonderful ; and the rapid and

beautiful manner in which he drew excited both our admiration and
Iour ambition.
                have reason to believe that most of the class received
Ilasting benefit, and have turned out well. Personally, may say, with
Itruth, I have cause to bless the name of Mr. Kingsley as long as live ;
for I left home with little more than the knowledge of my business, and

the knowledge of drawing learned in the class. After many years of

Ihard work am now at the head of a good business, which I am
Iproud to say is well known for the production of art furniture, &c.

often thought of writing to Mr. Kingsley, but diffidence prevented me.
The last time I ever saw him was in front of Lord Elcho's cottage, at
IWimbledon, at the time the Belgians first came to the camp.
                                                              was
Ithere representing my corps from Bath as a marksman, and just as

was about to speak to Mr. Kingsley, the Prince of Wales came out

on the green and entered into conversation with him, and my oppor

tunity was lost for ever.
   " Though dead, he yet influences for good thousands of hearts and

minds ; and he is now reaping the reward of his noble efforts while on

earth to add to the sum of human happiness, and thus leave the
Iworld better than he found it.
                                 need not speak of the time when the

class ceased, and Mr. Kingsley invited us to your house, to bid us
                                                         "
farewell, and of our tribute of love and respect to him

   This tribute of love was a silver card-case, which was very
precious to him, given at the close of a happy evening, when
the class came to supper at North Down House.

   The mention of the " black board " will remind many of his

masterly sketches, in public lectures and at his own school, where

he liked always to have a black board, with a piece of chalk, to
illustrate his teaching by figures, which spoke sometimes as

A Lecture to Ladies.                      45 1

eloquently as his words. His sense of form was marvellous, and,

when in doors, he was never thoroughly at ease without a pen
or pencil in his hand. In conversation with his children or

guests his pencil was out in a moment to illustrate every sub

ject, whether it was natural history, geological strata, geography,
maps, or the races of mankind. And even when writing his ser
mons his mind seemed to find relief in sketching on the blotting-
paper before him, or on the blank spaces in his sermon-book,
characteristic heads, and types of face, among the different schools

of thought from the mediaeval monk to the modern fanatic. At

Bristol, when he was President of the Educational Section at

the Social Science Congress, as he sat listening to the various
speakers, pen in hand, for the ostensible purpose of making
notes, he covered the paper with sketches suggested by the
audience before him or by his own imagination ; and when
the room was cleared, unknown to him, people would return,
and beg to carry off every scrap of paper he had used, as

 mementos.

   In the end of May he left Devonshire and went up to London,
before settling at Eversley. He there gave a lecture to the
Working Men's College, and one of a series to ladies interested
in the cause of the labouring classes. The subject he took was,
The work of ladies in the Country Parish.

    The lecture, valuable in itself, is doubly so, as the result of
the first eleven years of his labour among the poor, and some

 extracts are given to show the human and humane rules by

 which he worked his parish.

"II" keep to my own key-note," he says--  say, Visit whom, when,

and where you will ; but letyour visits be those ofwomen to women. Con
sider to whom you go -- to poor souls whose life, compared with yours,

is one long malaise of body, and soul, and spirit-- and do as you would

be done by; instead of reproving and fault-finding, encourage. In

God's name, encourage. They scramble through life's rocks, bogs, and

thorn-brakes, clumsily enough, and have many a fall, poor things !

But why, in the name of a God of love and justice, is the lady, rolling

along the smooth turnpike road in her comfortable carriage, to be

calling out all day long to the poor soul who drags on beside her, over

hedge and ditch, moss and moor, barefooted and weary hearted, with

452 Charles KingsIey.

half a dozen children at her back -- ' You ought not to have fallen here ;

and it was very cowardly to lie down there ; and it was your duty as a

mother, to have helped that child through the puddle ; while as for

sleeping under that bush, it is most imprudent and inadmissible?'

Why not encourage her, praise her, cheer her on her weary way by
loving words, and keep your reproofs for yourself--even your advice ;

for she does get on her way after all, where you could not travel a

step forward ; and she knows what she is about perhaps better than

you do, and what she has to endure, and what God thinks of her

life-journey.  The heart knoweth its own bitterness, and a stranger

intermeddleth not with its joy. But do not you be a stranger to her.
IBe a sister to her.
                            do not ask you to take her up in your

....carriage. You cannot ; perhaps it is good for her that you cannot.
    All I ask   is,  do to the poor soul as you would have her do to

you in her place. Do not interrupt and vex her (for she busy enough
                                                         :I

                                                                        ;

                                                                  :I
                                                                            is

                                                                            if
already) with remedies which she does not understand, for troubles

which you do not understand. But speak comfortably to her, and say,

I'  cannot feel with you, but do feel for you                   should enjoy helping
                            is I
you -- but do not know how -- tell me. Tell me where the yoke galls
    I                                                                                                         ;

tell me why that forehead grown old before its time                                                        may be able

to ease the burden, and put fresh light into the eyes and                                                     not, still

tell me, simply because am woman, and know the relief of pouringIa
out my own soul into loving ears, even though in the depths of despair.'

Yes, paradoxical as  it  may seem, am convinced that the only way to
                                  I

help these poor women humanly and really, to begin by confessing to
                                                         is

                                                             ;
them that you do not know how to help them to humble yourself to
them, and to ask their counsel for the good of themselves and of their

neighbours, instead of coming proudly to them, with nostrums, ready

                     doctor should be so confident              in  his own know
I

                 if

                               a
                                        in

                                                      *
compounded, as

ledge of books and medicine as to give physic before asking the

patient's symptoms.                                      ·                                                 *
               **

" entreat you to bear       mind (for without this all visiting of the

poor will be utterly void and useless) that you must regulate your

conduct to them and in their houses, even to the most minute particu

lars, by the very same rules which apply to persons of your own class.
  . . Piety, earnestness, aflectionateness, eloquence -- all may be
    .

        it
                              :
                             is
                                                                          a
                                                                                                        ;
nullified and stultified by simply keeping poor woman standing in her

own cottage while you sit, or entering her house, even at her own

request, while she   at meals. She may decline to sit she may beg

you to come in all the more reason for refusing utterly to obey her,

because shows that that very inward gulf between you and her still

                         A Woman and a Sister.                                                               453

Ifexists in her mind, which it is the object of your visit to bridge over.

    you know her to be in trouble, touch on that trouble as you would

with a lady. Woman's heart is alike in all ranks, and the deepest

sorrow is the one of which she speaks the last and least. We should
not like any one -- no, not an angel from heaven, to come into our
Ihouses without knocking at the door, to say, ' hear you are very ill off--
I Iwill lend you a hundred pounds.             think you are very careless of
Imoney, will take your accounts into my own hands.' And still less
again, ' Your son is a very bad, profligate, disgraceful fellow, who is not
Ifit to be mentioned ; intend to take him out of your hands and reform

him"  myself.'  do  the  poor  like      such  unceremonious  mercy, such untender
      Neither
*****and independence, have been exchanged for organized begging and
tenderness, benevolence at horse-play, mistaking kicks for caresses.

They do not like they will not respond to save in parishes which
I                                              is
   Ihave been demoralized by officious and indiscriminate benevolence,it,

and where the last remaining virtues of the poor, savage self-help;if

           aIhypocrisy.

                   aI" Approach, then, these poor women as sisters --learn lovingly and

                                    it,patiently (aye, and reverently, for therethat in every human being

                            Iwhich deserves reverence, and must be reverenced we wish to under

stand it); learn, say, to understand their troubles, and by that time

they will have learnt to understand your remedies. For you have

remedies.       do not undervalue your position. No man on earth                                             ; is

less inclined to undervalue the real power of wealth, rank, accomplish
ments, manners -- even physical beauty. All are talents from God, and

give God thanks when see them possessed by any human being

for know that they too can be used in His service, and brought to
bear on the true emancipation of woman -- her emancipation not from

man (as some foolish persons fancy), but from the devil, the slanderer
                                                                a'
                                                                        a

                                                                            a
and divider,' who divides her from man, and makes her live life-long                                         a
tragedy, which goes on in more cottages than palaces -- vie part,
vie incomprise -- life made up half of ill-usage, half of unnecessary self-

willed martyrdom, instead of being, as God intended half of the human

universe, helpmeet for man, and the one bright spot which makes

this world endurable. Towards making her that, and so realizing the

primeval mission by every cottage hearth, each of you can do some

thing for each of you have some talent, power, knowledge, attraction

between soul and soul, which the cottager's wife has not, and by which

you may draw her to you, by human bonds and the cords of love but
                                                              is

                                                                                                          ;
she must be drawn by them alone, or your work nothing, and though

454 Charles Kingsley.

you give the treasures of Ind, they are valueless equally to her and to

Christ ; for they are not given in His name, which is that boundless

tenderness, consideration, patience, self-sacrifice, by which even the
cup of cold water is a precious offering -- as God grant your labour
             "
may     be
            !

Again, as to teaching boys, he adds :

I" There is one thing in school work which             wish to press on you.

it                      that you should not confine your work to the girls but
           it
                   is,
And that                                                                          ;

                                                                                     I
bestow as freely on those who need more, and who (paradoxical as
                                        it
                                                      it

                                                             I
may be) will respond to                 more deeply and freely -- the boys.

am not going to enter into the reason why.                                     only entreat you to

believe me, that by helping to educate the boys, or even by taking

class, as have seen done with admirable effect, of grown-up lads,
a

          I

you may influence for ever, not only the happiness of your pupils,

but of the girls whom they will hereafter marry. It will be boon to
                                                                               a

your own sex, as well as to ours, to teach them courtesy, self-restraint,

reverence for physical weakness, admiration of tenderness and gentle

ness, and       it       one which only a lady can bestow. Only by being
                  in is
accustomed              youth to converse with ladies will the boy learn to treat

hereafter his sweetheart or his wife like gentleman. There                        is
                                        is
latent chivalry, doubt not, in the heart of every untutored cloda                  I; a
                             it
                                    it         a
*****fixed."
if      dies out in him, as too often does, were better for him; it
                                                       it
    it

often think that he had never been born but the only talisman

which will keep          it  alive, much more develop                          into its fulness,  is

friendly and revering intercourse with women of higher rank than

himself, between whom and him there     great and yet blessed gulf

   One secret of his own influence was this loving, human teach
ing. In writing at this time to an unknown correspondent,
who consulted him about his ragged-school work, in which he

was just then greatly discouraged, he says
                         ;

                                  ;I

                                                                        it, :
" As for the ragged school, would say, though they curse, yet bless
thou --teach there all the more tell these lads and men that they have
a Father in heaven -- show that you believe
                                                                               by your looks, your

manner, and common geniality, and brotherly kindness, and general

hopefulness of tone and let them draw their own conclusions. God

their Father will take good care that the good seed shall grow."

           Suffering working out Perfection.                                                               455

During a few days' absence he writes to his wife :

                                                                         EVERSLEY, July l6, 1855.
   " . . . . After all, the problem of life is not a difficult one, for it
solves itself so very soon at best -- by death. Do what is right the best
way you can, and wait to the end to kntnv. Only we priests confuse it

Iwith our formulae, and bind heavy burdens. How many have bound
Iin my time, God forgive me ! But for that, too, shall receive my

pun"isYhemse--nt, which is to me the most comforting of thoughts

                         ' Tis life, whereof our nerves are scant,

                                     Oh life, not death for which we pant,

                         More life, and fuller, that I want.'

You are right -- that longing to get rid of walls and roofs and all the

chrysalis case of humanity is the earnest of a higher, richer state of

existence. That instinct which the very child has to get rid of clothes,
and cuddle to flesh -- what is it but the longing for fuller union with those

it loves ? But see again (I always take the bright side), --If in spite of

wars and fevers, and accidents, and the strokes of chance, this world

be as rich and fair and green as we have found                          what must the
                                                                        it,
                                                                                             is
                                                                                                 it
coming world be like Let us comfort ourselves as St. Paul did (in
infinitely worse times), that the sufferings of this present time are not

worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. It not
fair either to St. Paul or to God --to quote the one text about the
           !

                   I?

                                            it

                                                                     ?
creation groaning and travailing, without the other, which says, that

will not groan or travail long. Would the mother who has groaned and
travailed and brought forth children --would she give up those children

for the sake of not having had the pain No. Then believe that the

world and every human being in who has really groaned and travailed,

will not give up its past pangs for the sake of its then present perfec

tion, but will look back on this life, as you do on past pain, with glory

and joy. Oh let the bible tell its own tale, and be faithful to its plain

....words, honestly and carefully understood, and all will be well.                                     I  come

to-morrow  and shall see my darling children."

   They now settled at Eversley; but as winter approached, the

damp obliged him, on his wife's account, to leave the rectory
again; but not his people, to his and their great joy. He took

  house for six months on Farley Hill, a high and dry spot in
the next parish. In the intervals of parochial work and lectures

at the various diocesan institutes, he brought out volume of
a
                                                                                                     a

45 6 Charles Kingsley.

" Sermons for the Times," and wrote a book of Greek fairy tales
for his children, which came out at Christmas, as " The Heroes,"
dedicated to Rose, Maurice, and Mary.

  I" love these old Hellenes heartily, and should be very ungrateful if
I did not, considering all they have taught me, and they seem to me

like brothers, though they have all been dead and gone many hundred

Iyears, so wish to be the first to introduce you to them, and to say,

' Come hither, children, at this blessed Christmas time, when all God's

creatures should rejoice together, and bless Him who redeemed them.

Come and see old friends of mine, whom I knew long ere you were

born. They are come to visit us at Christmas, out of the world where

....all live to God ; and to tell you some of their old fairy tales which they
loved when they were young, like you.'                       Next to the old

romances which were written in the Christian middle age, there are no

fairy tales like these old Greek ones for beauty, wisdom, and truth, and

for making children love noble deeds, and trust in God to help them

through."

                              TO J. M. LUDLOW, ESQ.

                                                     FARLEY COURT, NPV,, 1855.

I" . . . . Some of your hints are valuable.            feel what you say
Iabout not Greek and too Greek ; but had laid my account with all
IIthat before wrote. If I tell the story myself as you wish, can't give
the children the Greek spirit-- either morally or in manner, therefore I

have adopted a sort of simple ballad tone, and tried to make my prose

as metrical as possible. The archaisms are all slips in the rough copy,

and shall be amended, as shall all recondite allusions ; but you must

remember as to modernisms, that we Cambridge men are taught to

translate Greek by its modern equivalent even to slang. As to the word
I I' thrall,' about which you are so wroth,
                                                     was not aware that  was

wrong. It shall be amended with thanks. My own belief that by
                                                                      is,
taking the form              have, shall best do what  want, translate the          a
                       I      I         is
                                               it
                           a
                                                   I
children back into new old world, and make them, as long as they
                                        the true method of a --muse-
are reading, forget the present, which

ment, while the half metrical form will fix in their minds, and give

them something to think over.        I  don't agree with you at all, nor does

F., about omitting allusions which the children can't understand. She

agr"eeRseawdit,h   me  that  that just what they like.is     --  never  mind
                  Oh   read  Longfellow's song of Hiawatha'
                                  ;     a
                                                  '
few defects, old hole-picker but read set of myths as new as delight

ful, and cause Tom Hughes to read them likewise."

                          Fame and Praise.                                  457

                              TO THE SAME.

   " And for this fame, &c.,                      Farley Court, Dec. 30, 1855.

   " I know a little of her worth.
   "  And I will tell you what I know.
   "                                           ;  and as such,  it  is not  wise                                                              to
      That, in the first place, she is a fact

ignore her, but at least to walk once round her, and see her back as

well as her front.

   " The case to me seems to be this. A man feels in himself the love

of praise. Every man does who is not a brute. It is a universal

human faculty ; Carlyle nicknames it the sixth sense. Who made it ?
God or the devil ? Is it flesh or spirit ? a difficult question ; because

tamed animals grow to possess it in a high degree ; and our meta-

physic does not yet allow them spirit.                       But, whichever it be, it

cannot be for bad : only bad when misdirected, and not controlled by

reason, the faculty which judges between good and evil. Else why has
God put His love of praise into the heart of every child which is born

into the world, and entwined it into the holiest, filial, and family affec

tions, as the earliest mainspring of good actions ? Has God appointed

that every child shall be fed first with a necessary lie, and afterwards

come to the knowledge of your supposed truth, that the praise of God

alone is to be sought ? Or are we to believe that the child is intended

to be taught as delicately and gradually as possible the painful fact, that

the praise of all men is not equally worth having, and to use his critical

faculty to discern the praise of good men from the praise of bad, to
Iseek the former and despise the latter ?
                                                           should say that the last was
the more reasonable. And this I will say, that if you bring up any

child to care nothing for the praise of its parents, its elders, its pastors,

and masters, you may make a fanatic of                     or shameless cynic but
                          it
      will                    a
      But
                                                           it,
                                                                     a
                                                                             a
                                                                                                        !'

                                                                                                                                           :
you"        neither make      man, an Englishman, nor           Christian.
                                                                the honour which
            'our Lord's words stand, about not seeking

comes from men, but the honour which comes from God only True,

they do stand, and our Lord's fact stands also, the fact that He has

created every child to be educated by an honour which comes from his

parents and elders. Both are true. Here, as in most spiritual things,

you have an antinomia, an apparent contradiction, which nothing but

the Gospel solves. And does solve                          and your one-sided view of
                          it
                                              ' it

                                                          ;

                                                      in
the text resolves itself into just the same fallacy as the old ascetic one.

'  We must love God alone, therefore we must love no created thing.'

To which St. John answers pertinently, He who loveth not his brother
whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?'
If you love your brethren, you love Christ                   them. If you love their

458 Charles Kingsley.

praise, you love the praise of Christ in them. For consider this, you
cannot deny that, if one loves any person, one desires that person's

esteem. But we are bound to love all men, and that is our highest

state. Therefore, in our highest state, we shall desire all men's esteem.

Paradoxical, but true. If we believe in Christmas-day ; if we believe in

Whitsunday, we shall believe that Christ is in all men, that God's spirit

is abroad in the earth, and therefore the dispraise, misunderstanding,

and calumny of men will be exquisitely painful to us, and ought to be

so ; and, on the other hand, the esteem of men, and renown among

men for doing good deeds will be inexpressibly precious to us. They

will be signs and warrants to us that God is pleased with us, that we are

sharing in that ' honour and glory' which Paul promises again and

again, with no such scruples as yours, to those who lead heroic lives.

We shall not neglect the voice of God within us ; but we shall remember

that there is also a voice of God without us, which we must listen to ;

and that in a Christian land, vox populi, patiently and discriminately

listened to, is sure to be found not far off from the vox Dei.

   " Now, let me seriously urge this last fact on you. Of course, in

listening to the voice of the man outside there is a danger, as there is in

the use of any faculty. You may employ according to Divine reason
                 ;

                                          it,

                                                                ;
and grace, for ennobling and righteous purposes or you may degrade
   to carnal and selfish ones so you may degrade the love of praise
it
          isinto vanity, into longing for the honour which comes from men, by

             inpandering to their passions and opinions, by using your powers as they

would too often like to use theirs, for mere self-aggrandisement, by
                 your heart -- quam pukhrum digito monslrari et dicier hie est.
saying

That the man who wrote the fine poem, who painted the fine picture,

and so forth, till, by giving way to this, man may give way to forms of
                                      II a

                                                    ;a
                                                               a
vanity as base as the red Indian who sticks fox's tail on, and dances

about boasting of his brute cunning.    know all about that, as well as

any poor son of Adam ever did. But know, too, that to desire the

esteem of as many rational men as possible in word, to desire an

honourable and true renown for having done good in my generation,

has nothing to do with that and the more fear and struggle against
                 I                      I
                              ;
the former, the more see the exceeding beauty and divineness, and

everlasting glory of the latter as an entrance into the communion of

saints.                                                                 is

   " Of course, all this depends on whether we do believe that Christ
in every man, and that God's spirit abroad in the earth. Of course,
                                 ;
is itagain, will be very difficult to know who speaks by God's spirit, andis
who sees by Christ's light in him but surely the wiser, the humbler

path, to give men credit for as much wisdom and Tightness as pos-

           The Voice Within and the Voice Without.                        459

sible, and to believe that when one is found fault with, one is probably

Iin the wrong. For myself, on looking back, see clearly with shame
Iand sorrow, that the obloquy which have brought often on myself and
Ion the good cause, has been almost all of it my own fault-- that have

given the devil and bad men a handle, not by caring what people would
Isay, but by not caring--by fancying that was a very grand fellow, who
                           I
was going   to speak what      knew to be true, in    spite of all  fools (and
really did  and do intend  so  to do), while all the                deceiving
                                                      while I was

myself, and unaware of a canker at the heart the very opposite to the

Ione against which you warn me -- mean the proud, self-willed, self-

conceited spirit which made no allowance for other men's weakness or

ignorance ; nor again, for their superior experience and wisdom on

Ipoints which had never considered --which took a pride in shocking
Iand startling, and defying, and hitting as hard as could, and fancied,
blasphemously, as I think, that the word of God had come to me only,

and went out from me only. God forgive me for these sins, as well as

for my sins in the opposite direction ; but for these sins especially,
Ibecause
              see  them to be darker   and more   dangerous than the others.
   " For   there   has been gradually   revealed  to me (what my many read

ings in the lives of fanatics and ascetics ought to have taught me long

before), that there is a terrible gulf a-head of that not caring what men

say. Of course it is a feeling on which the spirit must fall back in
Ihours of need, and cry, ' Thou God knowest mine integrity.
                                                                          have

believed, and therefore I will speak ; Thou art true, though all men be
Iliars  '
      !    But     am convinced that that is a frame in which no man

can live, or is meant to live ; that it is only to be resorted to in fear

and trembling, after deepest self-examination, and self-purification, and

earnest prayer. For otherwise, Ludlow, a man gets to forget that

voice of God without him, in his determination to listen to nothing

but the voice of God within him, and so he falls into two dangers.

He forgets that there is a voice of God without him. He loses

trust in, and charity to, and reverence for his fellow-men; he learns

to despise, deny, and quench the Spirit, and to despise prophesyings,

and   so becomes gradually cynical, sectarian, fanatical.  Crushed  into  self,
   "
      And then comes a second and worse danger.

and his own conscience and schema mundi, he loses the opportunity of

correcting his impression of the voice of God within, by the testimony
of the voice of God without ; and so he begins to mistake more and
more the voice of that very flesh of his, which he fancies he has con

quered, for the voice of God, and to become, without knowing
                                       ;                                                an
                                                                                   it,
autotheist. And out of that springs electicism, absence of tenderness

for men, for want of sympathy with men as he makes his own con

460 Charles Kingsley.

science his standard for God, so he makes his own character the

standard for men ; and so he becomes narrow, hard, and if he be a man
of strong will and feelings, often very inhuman and cruel. This is the
history of thousands -- of Jeromes, Lauds, Puritans who scourged

Quakers, Quakers who cursed Puritans ; Nonjurors, who though they
would die rather than offend their own conscience in owning William,
would plot with James to murder William, or devastate England with
Irish Rapparees and Auvergne dragoons. This, in fact, is the spiritual
diagnosis of those many pious persecutors, who, though neither hypo
crites or blackguards themselves, have used both as instruments of their

fanaticism.

   " Against this I have to guard myself, you little know how much, and

to guard my children still more, brought up, as they will be, under a
father, who, deeply discontented with the present generation, cannot but
express that discontent at times. To make my children 'banausoi,'
insolent and scoffing radicals, believing in nobody and nothing but

Ithemselves, would be perfectly easy in me if were to make the watch
Iword of my house, ' Never mind what people say.' On the contrary,

shall teach them that there are plenty of good people in the world, that
public opinion has pretty surely an undercurrent of the water of life,
below all its froth and garbage, and that in a Christian country like this,

where, with all faults, a man (sooner or later) has fair play and a fair
hearing, the esteem of good men, and the blessings of the poor, will be

Ia pretty sure sign that they have the blessing of God also ; and shall

tell them, when they grow older, that ere they feel called on to become
martyrs, in defending the light within them against all the world, they
must first have taken care most patiently, and with all self-distrust and
humility, to make full use of the light which is around them, and has
been here for ages before them, and would be here still, though they
had never been born or thought of. The antinomy between this and

their own conscience may be painful enough to them some day. To

Iwhat thinking man is it not a life-long battle ? but shall not dream
Ithat by denying one pole of the antinomy can solve or do anything

but make them, by cynicism or fanaticism, bury their talent in the
earth, and not do the work which God has given them to do, because
they will act like parson who, before beginning his sermon, should
first kick his congregation out of doors, and turn the key and not like
St. Paul, who became all things to all men, by any means he might
save some."
a

                                 if

                                                               it,

                                                                                      ;

                  CHAPTER XV.

                                                                           1856.

                                                      Aged 37.

WINTER AT FARLEY COURT-- LETTERS TO MR. BULLAR-- LETTER FROM A
     SAILOR AT HONG KONG -- UNION STRIKES -- FISHING POEM AND FISHING
      FLIES -- STUDY OF PHRYGAN^ --THE SABBATH QUESTION -- INVITATION TO
      SNOWDONIA-- VISIT TO NORTH WALES-- AMERICAN VISITORS-- PREFACE TO
       TAULER'S SERMONS-- ODE TO BUNKUM.

I ...." am very sorry for what you say about my not writing any thing startling ; because
it shows that  you are beginning to judge me in part upon the reports of others.
I IThere are some people whom must startle, if am to do any good. . . . But to startle

the majority of good and sensible men, or to startle, so as to disgust at once a majority of

I Iany sort, are things which most earnestly should wish to avoid. At the same time,

do strongly object on principle to the use of that glozing, unnatural, and silly language

(for so it is in us now), which men use one after another till it becomes as worn as one
of the old shillings." -- DR. ARNOLD.

                     CHAPTER XV.

   The winter of 1856, spent at Farley Court, a lovely spot in

Swallowfield parish, adjoining to and overlooking Eversley, was
a bright and happy one. Living on high ground, and in a
dry house, acted as a tonic to him as well as to his family, and
infused fresh life into his preaching and his parish work.
In his night-schools, which were well attended, he gave lec
tures on mines, shells, and other subjects connected with Natural
History, illustrated with large drawings of his own. The ap
pearance of a ghost in the neighbourhood, which had greatly
alarmed his parishioners, but which he stalked down and found,
as he expected, was a white deer, escaped from Calverly Park,
led to his preaching a sermon on Ghosts to his people. The
old incubus of the Crimean War was removed after two years
pressure, and the new one of the Indian Mutiny, which weighed
even more heavily upon him from the thought of the sufferings
of women and children, was as yet in the future, and his heart
rebounded again. The formation of the camp at Aldershot
created fresh interests for him at this time and during his
remaining years, by bringing a new element into his congrega
tion at Eversley, and giving him the friendship of many Crimean

officers. In July he was at Aldershot on the memorable
occasion of the Queen's first inspection of the remnant of her

Crimean army, and saw the march-past of the different regiments
before Her Majesty, who was on horseback -- a sight never to be
forgotten, and which impressed him deeply.

   In August the long dreamt of expedition to Snowdon with
his friends Mr. Tom Hughes and Mr. Tom Taylor, which resulted
in the writing of " Two Years Ago," was accomplished. His
spare hours were devoted to the study and classification of the

464 diarles Kingsley.

Phryganae, which was carried on more by the side of trout
streams in North Wales and in an occasional day's fishing at
Wotton and Wild Moor, than in his own study. He con
tributed articles to the " North British Review " on Art and
Puritanism, and to " Frazer's Magazine " on Mystics and
Mysticism,* and began his new romance. During the summer
and autumn many a pilgrimage was made by Americans to
the home of the author whose works were then perhaps more
appreciated at the other side of the Atlantic than in his own
country. Among these were Mrs. Beecher Stowe and her sister,
Mrs. Perkins.

   The following letters will show the life and vigour which
marked his private correspondence this year :

                       TO T. HUGHES, ESQ.                                          FARLEY COURT.

  " I wish you would make a vow, and keep it strong ; for F. says,
that if you will, I may : and that is not to ' cross the sea like Sophia,'

but to go with me to Snowdon next summer for a parson's week, e.
                                                                                   ;
twelve days. For why   have long promised my children a book to
                       ?                                                                 I
                                                                                                                /'.
                         I                                                                                 a
                                       II
be called Letters from Snowdon,' and want to rub up old memories,
       '
          9                                have not seen. You do not

                   it
and to get new ones in parts which

know how easy is. You get second class into the mail at Euston

Square at p.m., and breakfast at Aber, under the Carnadds, next

morning. An ordnance map,               compass, fishing-tackle, socks, and
                           a

                                 I
slippers are all you want. Moreover, do know where to fish, and one

of the crackest fishers of the part has promised to give me as many flies
of his own making as like, while another can lend us boat or coracle,
             (if

                      I
                                      I
if if  we went to fish Gwynnant Dinas.   conceive that, humanly speaking,

     we went to work judgmatically, we could live for I2s. a-day each at

the outside    we are canny, at less), kill an amount of fish perfectly

frightful, and all the big ones, by the simple expedient of sleeping by

day, walking evening and morning, and fishing during the short hot

nights. Wales          cheap place, you avoid show inns and, save
       it,
                  it

                          is
                              a

                                              if

                                                                               a
                                                                               is
night at Capel Curig, we need never enter show inn. We may stay
                                                                                   there -- can't
two or three days at Pen-y-Gwyrrryynnwwdddelld

spell  but sounds Pennygoorood, which                                              the divinest pig-sty

beneath the canopy, and at Bedgelert old Jones the clerk, and king of

                       * Since published in the Miscellanies.

                                    Body and Soul.                                                  465

fishermen, will take us in-- and do for us-- if we let him. The

parson of Bedgelert is a friend of mine also, but we must depend

on our own legs, and on stomachs, which can face braxy mutton,
young taters, Welsh porter, which is the identical drainings of Noah's
flood turned sour, and brandy of more strength than legality. Bread

horrid. Fleas MCCCC ad infinitum. Bugs a sprinkling. For baths,

the mountain brook ; for towel, a wisp of any endogen save Scirpus

triqueter, or Juncus squarrosus ; and for cure of all ills, and supple
ment of all defects, baccy. Do come -- you have no notion of the
grandeur of the scenery, small as it is compared with the Alps."

                                    TO , ESQ.

   ...." Your letter delighted me                                                   February 27, 1856.

                                                      *** gave me your message.                             My

answer:      am going to preach on Saved by Hope to my people, on
                              I                                      a
       iIs,                                               '
                                         for my                      at Chelsea, on'
                                         Society                        With regard
....Sunday, and also when                                    father

April 27, for the District
                               preach                                                               t(oD.V**.)*
                              Visiting

I  fear neither you nor any man can give him fresh back to his

head enlarge that deficient driving wheel in the cerebellum, so as to
keep the thinking and feeling part of the brain at work. It
                                                                                    ?;              sad to

see how much faults of character seem to depend on physiognomic                      I
defects; but do they really depend upon it? Is man's spirit weak                             is is
                                                                   is
                                                                       is
                                                                              a
because he has poor jaw, and small back to his head or his jaw
                        :; a        it
poor, and his cerebellum small, because his spirit weakit,                          would fain
                                               a
believe the latter fain believe that the body the expression of the
                                                  ;'
soul, and               moulded by  and not, as Combe would have                                    is it,  the
        I ? it
soul by the body my reason points to that belief but shrink fromis
                  a is                                             '                aI
my own reason, because                                                           ;
                                                                                         it
                                                                                              is
                                    seems to throw such tremendous moral

responsibility on man, to forbid one's saying poor fellow,                                          not his

fault,                  constitutional defect for one says that man not
responsible for the form of his own soul --where does all virtue and viceI if

go to And this brings one straight to the question of madness, on

which fully agree with you.              said so in print, long ago, in sermon
                              II                                                    I
                                      I                                                        a
on Ahab at Ramoth Gilead, which you will find in my first set of

National Sermons. And have seen cases myself which could attri

bute to nothing else.         cannot but believe that                a              peculiar kind of

epilepsy of which have had two cases among the poor of my parish,I
and some of the horrible phaenomena of puerperal mania, are 'the

unclean spirit' of the New Testament.                            am perfectly certain that the

accesses of mingled pride, rage, suspicion, and hatred of everybody and

everything, accompanied by the most unspeakable sense of loneliness

466 Charles Kingsley.

and ' darkness' (St. John's metaphor, for it is the only one), which were
common to me in youth, and are now, by God's grace, very rare

I(though I am just as capable of them as ever, when am at unawares

and give place to the devil by harsh judgments or bitter words) were
Iand are nothing less than temporary possession by a devil.
                                                             am sure
Ithat the way in which those fits pass off in a few minutes, as soon as

get ashamed of myself, is not to be explained by ' habit,' either physical

Ior moral (though 'moral habits' don't believe in), but by the actual
intervention of an unseen personage, I believe our Lord Jesus Christ
Himself, driving away that devil. I had once a temporary madman

here among our cottagers, who in his first fit tore off his clothes and ran

away into the woods naked. (I suspect that desire of nakedness to be
the blind effort to be merely himself, and to escape from the sense of

oppression caused by something, or being over and above self, i.e.

I Ifrom possession). In that fit did not see him, it was before came

here. In his second he turned melancholy mad, walked up and down

in silence, and when he spoke, declared that the devil had hold of him,

and would not let him sleep. The Doctor luckily believed in demo

niacal possession, and came to me, saying, ' I can't cure this man's

mind by making his liver act. You must make his liver act by curing
Ihis mind.'
             went to the patient and agreed with him fully, that the
devil was in him ; and I said, I will tell you why he is in you ; because,

my dear man, you have been a thief, and a cheat, and a liar' (as all the
world knew), ' and have sold yourself to the father of lies. But if you

will pray to God to forgive you (and then I set forth those precious
Ipromises in Christ, which the Record thinks don't believe), and ' will

lead a new and honest life, you may snap your fingers at the devil.'

And after awhile the man got well, and has had no return for seven
Iyears.
         did that in the face of the troublesome fact, that his son (and

a great rogue too) was subject to melancholy madness also, and that
his sister was evidently cracked --her madness being causeless jealousy.

IThat looked like a ' constitutional' defect in the family blood ; but

thought the man must know his own business best, and took him at his

Iword, and on the same plan had very fair success with his son also.

But enough --only pray write to me again on this matter that we may
compare notes. I cannot tell you the relief to me to find a man like

minded ; and therefore write, when you have a spare five minutes, on any

matter. You are one by whose confidence I feel honoured, and I do not

that word
There is
Iuse

   "
               lightly.  in  your  letter  must answer another day."
             much more

                 What Does Man Know?                                                                                          467

                       TO JOHN BULLAR, ESQ.

                                                                             March 12, 1856.
" Your letters are very pleasant ; but they weigh me down with the
thought of how little one knows --and after all how little man knows. I
Ihave craved after knowledge -- have not found
                                             '                               have with Solo
                                                                 it.

                                                           it I
mon given my heart to know madness and folly, yet acquainting myself

with wisdom, and can only say with the Faust of the Old World,'

Cast thy bread on the waters and thou shalt find after many days.

Give portion to seven and also to eight, for thou knowest not what
      a
           is

                        ?

                      ' it
                            is

                                         ?'

                                      is
evil shall be on the earth. Hear the conclusion of the whole matter.

Fear God and keep his commandments, for this the whole duty man.
                                             is                                                                           of
                                                              is
As for wisdom,                                                      a
                                                                     is
                 vanity and much study                                 weariness to the flesh,

and   of making  many books there no end.                              grow  in the womb                                      of
      Knowing        Knowest thou how the bones
   "

her that with child or why the little Diatomaceae split into separate

cells when their time                        come? Everywhere, skin deep below our

boasted science, we are brought up short by mystery impalpable, and by

the adamantine gates of transcendental forces and incomprehensible laws
-- gates of which the Lord, who both God and Man, alone holds the
                                             is

                                                   :

                                                        if
                                                             I,

                                                                    II
key, and alone can break the seal and He has not broken them for

Himself, He has not broken them for us.          too, have tormented my

soul with metaphysics and thought about thinking, and know no more

than at first, and from Locke to Kant and Hegel,                             believe nobody
knows. What are we each of us but --

                 '        An infant crying in the night,
                          An infant crying for the light,

                       And with no language but a cry.'

" Is     likely to be less so, then, with theologies and ecclesiastical
       ? it
systems          was not so with St. Paul, certainly, even granting him to
           It

have been (what he never asserted himself to be) infallible. He has no
ecclesiastical system. The facts of church arrangement in his time as
far as he mentions them, are utterly different from anything which has

been seen in Christendom for more than thousand years. God hath
set some in the church, first apostles, prophets, evangelists, workers of
1

                                               it

                                                                a
                                                                                a

                                                                                                                      a'
miracles, helps, &c.' What does all that mean? Nobody knows, but

each tries to squeeze out of                 word or two, which will fit their little

theory, Popish or Protestant. Those prophesyings, unknown tongues,

interpretations, all that mysterious machinery, which he speaks of in
   Cor. xiv. as an integral part of assembled worship and as peculiar

proof of God's presence, and the influence of His spirit --What have we

like that? What even was it? Nobody knows. In one place he

468 Charles Kingsley.

seems to look down on almost as form of hysteria -- in another to
is
         it

                                    a
                                              it,

                                        a Ia
                                                                                                   it,
                                                                                                                   a

                                                                      I
exalt as the very power of God.                       can't understand  and know

nobody who does.

   " While as for doctrine --he says himself that he only knows in part,
and prophesies in part -- sees through glass darkly -- that his knowledge

   but as that of child, speaking and understanding as child, and

that all the knowledge he has shall vanish away, just as the tongues will

fail and the prophecies cease, and that all which will endure will be

charity, real, active, love that the intellectual element, and its outward
                         'a
manifestations, of system and worship and perhaps dogma, are tem;

porary, and the moral-spiritual one the only permanent eternal thing of

which he has hold. And yet am asked to build up out of St. Paul's
                                    I

writings  complete system of theology and anthropology 'tout rond'
          I aa
without   flaw, or point for doubt                      And when                     turn to
                     in                               ;
                                                                 .

                                                                  I
                                                                                 in
                                                                           I
St. James find him contradicting St. Paul so flatly                     words, as to

exercise all the ingenuity of commentators to make the two agree (as no

doubt they do)           fundamental doctrine. And when turn to St. John,

I  find an entirely new aspect of the truth and in his first chapter an

assertion that was to those who believed on Him that He gave power
          it

to become the children of God' in the face of St. Paul's appeal to the

very heathen poets that all men are the offspring of God. And in

Galatians iv. that the difference between the heathen and the Christian,

or perhaps between the human race before and after Christ, that the
                                                                        is
                                                                                      is
one God's child under tutors and governors, and the other God's
   a I I is
full grown and conscious son who has received the waBvrla, which
              is
not adoption wnmoi^ais, but the mere putting on the toga virilis.
              (I
How am to reconcile them            ?          know not. And now perhaps you

have been thinking me little better than sceptic, yet am not. SomeI
things see clearly, and hold with desperate clutch. A Father in Heavenis ita
for all, Son of God incarnate for all--(That incarnationis
                                                     a      I           is           the one

fact which to me worth all, because makes all others possible and

rational, and without    in         should go mad,) and Spirit of the Father
and the Son -- attach infinite importance to that double procession --
                           iIt
the Holy Spirit of the Greek Church                   to me nothing and no-sense),
who works to will and to do of His own good pleasure -- in whom
                                                                                     ?                                In

every human being whom there one spark of active good, the leastis
desire to do right, or to be of use -- the fountain of all good on earth.
Beyond that see little, save that right divine and all conquering --
it

               I
wrong utterly infernal, and yet weak, foolish,          a  mere bullying phan

tom, which would flee at each brave blow, had we courage to strike                                                    at
   in God's name.
                                                                                                                      is,
   " But, as for speculations as to what man's soul or unseen element

                      Life, Death, and Hell.                               469

and what happens to it when he dies, theories of Elysium and Tartarus,

Iand of the future of this planet and its inhabitants, leave them to those

who see no miracles in every blade of grass, no unfathomable mysteries
in every animalculae, and to whom Scripture is an easy book, of which

they have mastered every word, by the convenient process of ignoring

three-fourths of it. I don't complain of them ; they are happier than I.
If they saw more than they do, perhaps it would cripple them, dazzle,

and terrify them. And it is a very great and priceless blessing to the

country, that some 16,000 tolerably well-bred and necessarily respectable

persons should be set up by the law, to tell people, in some confused

way, yet truly, that doing wrong is infinitely harmful, and doing right is

infinitely blessed and useful, and that God is (more or less according to
each man's scheme) a good God, and a living God, and a God who
watches them, and will by no means clear the guilty, and will in some

way have mercy on the penitent, and reward the righteous-doer ; and that

He has proved this by sending His Son to be made man, and die for

men, though the reason and meaning of this latter fact, like the extent

of the former one, they may not be able to speak of very rationally or
Ifcoherently.
               they be not scriptural, at least they make the Church as

she should be, a ' witness and keeper of Holy writ,' and preserve it for

generations happier than ours, who will find in  doubt not, treasures of
                                               is

                                                 iIt,

                                                                    a
which we never dreamed, even though they may cease to impute to Scrip

ture the infallibility which never claims, much more to deny its flat
declarations for the sake of their own theories. Yes, Mr. Bullar,
    (I

              I

                            it

                                      a
you complain that the Church of England fallen to low ebb. She

is  no lower think her a great deal higher) than any other Christian

denomination. She will be higher as long as she keeps her Articles,

which bind men to none of the popular superstitions, but are so cautious,

wide, and liberal, that could almost believe them to have come down

from heaven. But as soon as generation of Bishops arises (either High
or Low) who persist in demanding of candidates for ordination the popular

creed, making those articles mean that creed, and nothing else, then

God help us for the day of the Lord will be at hand, and will be
    ;

revealed in flaming fire, not merely to give new light and day-spring
                                         )
from on high to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, but to
                                                 ,
burn up out of sight, and off the universe, the chaff, hay, and stubble,
                                                             it
                                                                        a
which men have built on the One Living foundation Christ, in that

unquenchable fire, of which              written that Death and HELL shall one
                      ;

                            it
                                 is
day be cast into also to share the fate of all other unnatural and
               it

abominable things and God's universe be -- (what                       must be some
               a

                   ;
day, unless be failure, the imperfect work of an imperfect workman,
    is
       it
and God to be eternally baffled by evil -- very good. How that will

47O Charles Kings ley.

happen, I know not, neither care. But I know how it will not happen ;

not by God having, as some fancy, to destroy this planet as a failure

and a blot, nor by the larger part of the human race passing endless

time in irremediable torments. One such case ought to be enough

to destroy the happiness of all the saved (unless they are grown
suddenly cruel), and keep all heaven one everlasting agony of compassion.

To believe that God should determine to torments endless one whom

He could reform, is an insult to His love and justice, which I will

die rather than utter. And it is an equal insult to His wisdom, to say

that He too, (what words shall use without blasphemy?) to be unable
to 'reform,' convince, persuade, and soften the worst and stupidest heart,
I
                    is,
                         a

                                           I

                                                                                                                                             ;

                                                                                                          is
mean even merely externally by actual argument, by reformatory

discipline, however severe, which should prove to the man by sharp pangs

that he was fool, and that evil-doing would not pay and by that win

ning love, returning good for evil, which, as we all know, the most

powerful of all to soften and convert. But much more by the most

powerful influence of all, the direct transcendental working of God's spirit,

or the man's spirit, which, suppose, we are to believe in, unless we are
                            I
Arminians.                      I is

   " Till mankind have come to their senses on this point, see but little
                                                     aI
hope for Christianity, and between me and the hearts of all good men,

whom long to embrace, that horrible dream yawns as great gulph
        II

                         a
fixed.  cannot look them in the face without an effort, because know
                                                                                                                                                I

that they hold notion, which to me an immoral superstition, borrowed

from the old heathens and rabbis (though our Tartarus ten times asis

cruel and immoral as Virgil's), and of which no apostle seems to know

anything whatever and worse, because know they would regard me
        if                            I
              if ;
                                                it.
with horror, they knew that disbelieved
                                                          I                                                                                     have been
   " Therefore, my dear Mr. Bullar (as you are one to whom
strangely drawn), you like the rest, believe in Tartarus, and hold that our

Lord came to promulgate that doctrine, and not (as His plain words seem

to me to do) to correct those very notions in the rabbis which have
descended to us from them, then let us not try to hold any more coun

sel together concerning the deep things of God.      will be honest on
I

           if

                              is
                                                    a
                                                               '

                                          if

                                         I, I
                                                     I It

                                                                                                   a

                                                                                                      it
neither side, both our theology and our anthropology differ by one

enormous and all-important postulate. Let us talk of sanitary and social
reform, and of birds and flowers, of the little pleasures of the sunshine

and the spring, which are still allowed to the human race before

descends into endless flame, agony, and despair, while few (and, per

haps, among them) ascend to heaven,' where should be ashamed
to be happy for one moment. Meanwhile, shall cherish in secret the

hope that the night nigh past, that not yet at least my children,

         Calvinism.                                         47 1

will see a second European reformation, Tartarus follow its more foolish,

but far less immoral and infernal child Purgatory, and the whole of

Christendom leap up as men freed suddenly from the weight of a
hideous nightmare to give thanks and glory to Him who descended into
hell, and ' harrowed it ' as the glorious old words, now long forgotten,
say, -- Who died for us, and all mankind."

TO REV. F. MAURICE.

 .... I FARLEY COURT, March, 1856.

" enjoy your sermons weekly very much, and a good deal
which you say in them, hits me very hard. What glib cruelty and non

Isense have talked in past times ! If I wanted a proof of the ' corrup

tion of human nature,' I could find no plainer one than the way in which

really amiable and thoughtful people take up with doctrines which out

rage their own reason and morality, simply because they find them ready-

made to their hands ; and now it seems as if the second-hand creed was

actually conquering. I go into no middle-class house, religious or

irreligious, without finding their whole religious library composed of the
very school which we are fighting against --Adam Clarke, C
                                                                       ,

S , etc. And what hope would one have, if one did not know that

underneath all this lay the strangest unrest in, and dissatisfaction with,
I Iand disbelief in it all.
wish could have some talk with you ; for
Iunless can get from you some of your moderate and charitable and
two-sided notions, I shall begin to regard Calvin as a child of the Devil,

and Calvinism as the upas-tree, which Satan planted in the Lord's garden

at the Reformation to poison all with its shade. The influence of

Calvinism abroad seems to me to have been uniformly ruinous, destruc

tive equally of political and moral life, a blot and a scandal on the

Reformation ; and now that it has at last got the upper hand in England,

can we say much more for it ?

TO JOHN BULLAR, ESQ.

                                                         1856.

I I" . . . . Since             have felt a great deal.   A dear friend
saw you                                                  I was on the

has suddenly lost a wife, who also was very dear to us.

spot and saw all ; and it was very dreadful, in spite of all the perfect

hope behind. God help us, what cobwebs we all are ; why should He
not sweep us away, as He does better than us ? It is a very searching

thought. . . . How such moments as these draw men near each

other I Mrs. Kingsley last night just escaped a horrible accident, from

472 Charles Kingsley.

Ithe fall of a horse.             felt her danger draw me nearer to every one whom
I esteemed, by shocking me with the fearful possibility of loneliness- --
though only for a time at worst -- still loneliness, and very dreadful."

   Among the letters of this year, he was deeply touched by the
following from a naval officer, dated H.M.S. " St. George," off
Hong Kong :

   " Among the many blessings for which I have had to thank God

this night, the most special has been for the impressions produced by

Iyour noble sermon of ' Westward Ho !' Some months ago read it for

the first time, then sailed on a long cruize, and now on returning have

read it again with prayer that has been answered, for God's blessing has

gone with                      feel as never felt before, that Protestantism        the
II                                ;I                                                is
                          it.                                                           !'
                 I
religion of this life especially, and that have been heeding the future
to the neglect of the living present. Many day of late, thinking of you,
                                        !
  have gone on deck to my duty and seen God, where theoretically only
  have been in the habit of looking for Him, on the sea, and in theII
                                                     a
clouds, and faces of men and the Holy spirit descending, has stirred my
pulses with the sense of universal love prevailing, above, around, andit

ben"eath.Uncreate, unseen, and undefined, source of all light, and foun'I
tain of all mind, lurks there in all the wide expanse, one spot --above,
     O

around, beneath, where Thou art not?'      am able to speak of God and

of religion with less of the humiliating hesitation that am accustomed

to, and trust that He will give me that manliness that will enable me so

to talk of His workings, which, alas we are in the habit of practically

ignoring. Accept, then, my dear sir, this tribute to your own manly,

plain, and practical preaching. Doubtlessly       has found an echo far

and wide to roll from soul to soul, and grow for ever, and for ever
    " May God raise up for us many such teachers, and long preserve you
        ;
                   '

in all your faculties of heart and head, to testify of Him, and prepare the

world for the coming of Christ.         prayers,  daily,                in his own  ship --
   " Sir Michael Seymour has morning

an almost solitary instance in the navy; but as the admiral sets the
example, may we not hope that the good old habit of those days when

'  first, above all things,' was provided that God be duly served twice'
                                  ? it
every day,' returningis

                               '  Once the welcome light has broken,
                                                         Who shall say

                                  What the unimagined glories
                                                         Of the day,

                             A Sailors Testimony.                                 473

                             What the evil that shall perish
                                                     In its ray ?

                             Aid the dawning tongue and pen,
                             Aid it hopes of honest men ;
                             Aid it paper--aid it type --
                             Aid it for the hour is ripe ;
                             And our earnest must not slacken

                                                     Into play,
                             Men of thought and men of action

                                                        Clear the way !'

" Ever, I pray so to continue, I remain, my dear sir,

                                      " Your grateful brother in the faith,
                                                                        " R. N."

  " P.S. --As a nautical man I must take the liberty of pointing out one

little nautical error, and only one. You describe the cable of the ' Rose'

as rattling through the hawse-hole, forgetting that then (and for 230 years
afterwards) hemp cables alone were used in which there is little rattle,
as any one who has been compelled to work them will testify. Yet, on

second thought, you are not far out, for before letting go hemp cables

you get a range up before the bilts, which portion runs out rapidly

enough ; but it     is not   done  now  with  chain.  You would have made a
first-rate sailor,  sir l "

   This was one among the many letters which he received about
his novel of "Westward Ho!" The writer some years after
wards made himself known to him as Captain Alston, of H.M.S.

" St. George," and a strong personal attachment was formed

between the two men who had so much in common ; and up to

Captain Alston's lamented death, which occurred a short time
before that of his friend, he consulted Mr. Kingsley on all points

connected with his noble work, which was latterly on board the

Reformatory Training Ships on the Thames and the Clyde.
After his first visit to Eversley, Captain Alston writes :

  " It does not pay, my dear Mr. Kingsley, to stay with you. I
I Idon't know when felt so miserable as did yesterday. Positively I
thought incipient heart-breaking had commenced ; it felt very like it--
Ichokiness and all that, in the train going up.       thought I should shake

it off after dinner, but could not. My pipe made me worse, for it re

minded me only of your snuggery, your arm-chair, your talk, and your

474 Charles Kingsley.

kindness. The more I feel kindness the more incapable I am of thank

ing people for it to their face. In the land of the hereafter we shall

know each other. Then soul will come to soul, and you will know how

Imuch care for you ; the red Indian spirit won't let him write the proper
Iword (or perhaps it is from those old hard hearts, the sons of Odin, one

inherits this reserve), and will put it down to race, and bide that

time, and               say  no more about    ' I J. it.  for me, and  old  S., and  take a Dieu  vous
                             in the two houses
   " Salute             all

garde from                                                                  "A. H. Alston."

   The following letters on Strikes and Trades' Unions, though
of different dates, are placed together.

                                    TO NICHOLLS, ESQ.

                                                                       EVERSLEY, March 28, 1856.

" have carefully read your admirable lecture.*                                       think calcu
'                                                                           II

   I                                                                                         it
lated to do great good, and admire your boldness in lifting up your
                     ;
voice to expose the tyranny of Union' Strikes. From my own expe'

rience of demagogues (which has not been small),                                     can well believe

every word you say as to the humbug' connected with the inner work

ing of them. As for the prospects of Association,' on which you touch'

so fairly and candidly, my experience goes with yours as to associations
for production. The failure in those which have seen fail, has always
                                                                  I

been their democratic constitution and anarchy. The secret of success,
in those which have seen succeed, has been the presence of some one
                             I

master-mind and even he has had hard work, unless backed by bene
                        ;

volent capitalists, who have been able to say to refractory members,

Well, we hold the supplies, and you kick, we withhold.' Association
                                                           if

will be the next form of industrial development, doubt not, for pro
                                                                            I

                                                                                  it.I
duction but will require two generations of previous training, both in
                             if it
morality and in drill, to make the workmen capable of                                   Association
                                is
for distribution what look to with far higher hope.                                     am sure, for
                                    I

example, that the method of the People's Stores and Mills (flour)' at'

Rochdale, were generally carried out, the saving to wages, to public

honesty, and (considering the present adulteration of goods) to public

health, would be immense.                     I  invite your attention to this side of the

question.

* A Lecture by Mr. Nicholls, a Manchester gentleman, on Union Strikes.

                     Manchester Mill-owners.                                             475

' "lam exceedingly pleased with what you say of the present temper
Iof mill-owners, and, from experience of my own, fully believe
                                                                                           The
                                                                                     a it.
old generation, let us trust,            passing away, and, with the new, wider
                                         is                                                I

                                                          I
views and nobler aims are coming in. But cannot, in justice to the

working men, forget the temper of the nouveaux riches of Manchester,
during the forty years ending, say 1848, -- who were not even free

traders, till they found that cheap corn meant cheap wages, and of

whom, certainly, the hardest masters and the most profligate men were

to be found among those who had risen from the working classes.

fear that, some twenty years ago, the relations between the average of

young masters and the girls of the factory, would not bear close

investigation and were the unspoken cause, among brothers and sweet
       a;
hearts, of fearful indignation, which only found vent in political agita

tion, and rendered them easy dupes to those who told them that their

masters' interests were as much opposed to theirs, as their luxury

certainly was to the morality of their female relations. Let us honestly

call a spade spade, and recollect this fact, and the other fact that these

mill-owners had been, for the last forty years, collecting vast heaps of

people from every quarter (even bringing labourers from Ireland to
degrade the civilized labour-wage to the level of what the Irish

men would take), without the least care as to their housing, education,

Christianising or anything else, till the manufacturing towns became

sinks of unhealthiness, profligacy, ignorance, and drunkenness. The

mere fact that life in Manchester was shortened seventeen years, in com

parison with life in the country,             isvery awful. Then agree with me,

that though the repentance and amendment of the present generationI

may (and trust in God, from what see, will) cure and atone for all
yet that there an arrear of moral debt, of which the workmen cannot
       I                                                                                      ;;

                 is

but be aware, and that this does rankle, and will rankle for few
                                                                                     is
years to come. God grant that may be few and, meanwhile, owe                            a
                                         it          is a
                                                           a

                                                                 ;
no grudge to those who have stoutly declared (as have) that such
careless heaping together of human beings                         sin in the sight of GodaI
                                                                            : is
and man.                                                                                 where

   " The only weak point in your whole lecture, in my eyes,

you deal with profits. Your general political economy simply unde

niable but, in respect of profits, you overlook this fact --The present
       ;

        is
                                      a
system has enabled the mill-owners, when successful, to raise themselves

and their families into state of very great luxury, of rough kind. It

has not made any improvement in the condition of the working people,

which  to be compared therewith.                  I  know what Manchester mill-

owners' society has been, and            is,  in most cases, now, on an average

and as far as self-denial in the gratification of wishes goes, don't see
                                                                                  I

476 Charles Kingsley,

(save where ' respectability' interferes in the case of elder men) that
there is much difference in that virtue (or has not been till lately)

between master and man, while the man's temptations have been much

greater than his master's. Noble exceptions there are, of course ; so

there are among the men, as I know well. But, on the whole, is the

'commutation of profits' (i.e. wages) fairly commuted, when the master's
share raises him to every luxury, while the man remains where he was,
and must so remain as a class, -- for no abstinence from drink would

give him a chance of developing his fortunes, similar (in its degree) to

that which his master has ?
" I wish, if you take the trouble to answer this letter, you would
Iexplain this to me.
                      shall be glad to have it explained ; for it is always
Ipleasant to find a thing right which one thought wrong.
                                                          comfort

myself with the thought, that the present system, though it does not

improve the individual, finds means of average subsistence for greater

and greater numbers ; but that cannot be meant as a final theorem of

manufacturing life. The whole manufacturing idea is too magnificent,

even in its present clumsy actual form, to end so."

   On the receipt of this, Mr. Nicholls wrote back at once,
urging several considerations in support of his views, and like
wise in defence of his " order."

                                                                         EVERSLEY, April 4, 1856.

  " Thanks for the second letter, which has just come. I will read it
Imost carefully. All say is -- convince me that the system is right,
and no one will be more glad than I to find one more right thing on the
Iearth than supposed ; while, as for altering my mind and begging

pardon, a man must be a very little fellow indeed, who has any difficulty

in so doing.                                                         I

  I" But what feel more is the personal part of the correspondence.
would not for the world have written to you as I did, had I known that
you yourself were a Manchester manufacturer : for why should I be
rude to any man ? And yet I am glad that it so happened ; for it has
Iproved to me what have often heard, that you gentlemen were frank

and open speakers, who took a hard blow and returned it with interest,

and bore no malice after all. So, now, so far from suffering you to
apologise to me for ' plain speaking,' I must apologise to you for mine,
Iand if I have exaggerated, forgive me. Be sure, that
                                                       shall believe

your impressions of a system in which you have been brought up,
Irather than my own of the same, which
                                        have only peeped at and

read of."

                                  Trades' Unions.             477

                                  To , ESQ.

                                    (Of Sheffield.)

    " No one,  I     hope    you                          EVERSLEY, Passion Monday, 1856.

                                   will believe me, more heartily wishes that

Isuch matters as you write to me on could be altered. But, after years
of experience, trial, and disappointment,            am convinced that they

cannot. The thing must be left alone ; and the only advice I can give
    is,

      II
                        ;
                                       a
                                                     a
                                     I
                                                                                 ;;

                                                          I
                                                              Ia

                                                                                                                            is, ;
    emigrate but never strike.      look forward to time in which such

things will be righted by general labour-news and wages-arbitration

but have no means of starting either and don't think the world
will
   "  have   for many     year to  come.             but all  can recommend
         am  very sad  about all   these matters

Ifpeace, and making the best use, and most prudent use, of wages when
they are to be got.               one half the hundreds of thousands which

have been spent by trades' unions in interfering with the natural
accidents of trade, had been spent in insuring (by association for

relieving overstocked labour markets) against those accidents, all might

have been well but now, see little before the English workman but
                is, ;        I

Ifto abide as he       and endure.  of what  mean,     will gladly tell you."
                     to know more          I
   " you want                                       I

    To friend at Sheffield, in 1862, he wrote on the same topic
        a                                                                      :

  If" these trade unions are to be allowed to exist, they can only

exist on the ground of being not only organs for combination, but for

keeping the combination men within the law. If they will not disprove

that such outrages have been committed by union men           they will not,
                                    I
in honour to their own class, be the first to drag such hounds to justiceI

                                                                   in ;

                                                          I if

                                                                                                      ?;
    they will do nothing to free themselves from the old stigma that from
I if
1820-48, they have themselves notoriously engaged in such outragesII

and murders -- then let them be put down by law as incapable morally

as politico-economically.         With you have defended the right of com

bination among the workmen, in hope that they would become wiser

than of yore. But they continue to murder, see nothing for them
                       a if
but the just judgment of public opinion which will sweep them away,

and fear inaugurate reign of tyranny and of capital.          and others

have been seeing with dread the growing inclination of the governing

classes to put down these trade unions, &c., by strong measures. What

am to say when see the working men themselves,                the face of this
                  I

danger, justifying the measures of those who wish to be hard on them

    have seen enough of trade unions to suspect that the biggest rogues

478 Charles Kingsley.

and the loudest charlatans are the men who lead or mislead the honest

working men ; but if the honest working men themselves make no

move towards detecting and exposing the authors of such outrages, they
Ifmust suffer with their blind and base leaders.
                                                  they fancy they are
too strong for the classes above them, that they can defy the laws of

England and the instincts of humanity, then they will find themselves

mistaken, even if they have to be taught their folly by a second Bristol

riots or a second Peterloo."

   In March, 1856, among many other letters about his books

came one from a perfect stranger, as he called himself, dated
from Cambridge, saying, he felt compelled after reading the

"Sermons for the Times" to express his own deep debt of

gratitude :

  I" immediately took them to a friend, whose remorse for a past

course of sin has often led him to the very verge of suicide, and he has

just been to me with a heart full of grateful delight, and told me that the
Isermon on ' Salvation' has made him a completely new creature.
                                                                 have
Iventured to trespass on your time, because cannot help thinking that

a minister of God must have sore trials to bear, and bitter disappoint

ments, and the experience that he has planted, not altogether in vain,

the good seed, cannot but be consoling."

   In writing to another stranger who had made full confession of
his doubts and difficulties to him, Mr. Kingsley says :

   " Your experiences interested me deeply, and confirm my own.

IAn atheist never was ; but in my early life I wandered through many

doubts and vain attempts to explain to myself the riddle of life and this

world, till I found that no explanation was so complete as the one which

one learnt at one's mother's knee. Complete nothing can be on this side

of the grave, on which St. Paul himself said, that he only saw through a

glass darkly ; but complete enough to give comfort to the weary hearts

of my poor labouring folk, and to mine also, which is weary enough at
          I am much pleased to hear what you say about your
times

mother. Believe me, the good old-fashioned Church folk, when they

were good, were nearer the truth than either Exeter-Hallite or
          "
Puseyite

  With spring his thoughts turned to fishing ; and one April

morning when the south-westerly wind wafted certain well

          Fishing and Flies.                   479

known sounds from the Camp, the South-Western Railway, and
Heckfield Place, to the little Rectory, these lines were written
and put into his wife's hand :

                                 Oh blessed drums of Aldershot !
                                    Oh blessed south-west train !

                                 Oh blessed, blessed Speaker's clock,
                                 All prophesying rain l

                                     Oh blessed yaffil, laughing loud !
                                    Oh blessed falling glass l

                                 Oh blessed fan of cold grey cloud I
                                    Oh blessed smelling grass !

                                 Oh bless'd southwind that toots his horn
                                         Through every hole and crack !

                                 I'm off at eight to-morrow morn,
                                 To bring such fishes back !
                                                                           April I, 1856.

          TO TOM HUGHES, ESQ.

                                               FARLEY COURT.

" When can you come and see us ? We return to Eversley on

Easter Monday ; all that week swallowed up in confirmations, leastwise

till Thursday ; and just coming home is a confused time ; but if you

can't come any other time you must e'en come then ; for come you
must. This ' gracious rain ' will put the fish all right in a week, and we

Imight run to Farnham or elsewhere, for a day (more can't spare), to see

Iwhat a large march-brown, and a red or a golden palmer would do.
have great hopes of fishing this spring, and am organising a series of
I I' leaves ' from everybody round.
          think can get eight or nine leaves
for day's fishing, and eight or nine days is more than I can take, for half

of them are sure to be bright, or calm, or morning frosts, or something
catawompous and multificative. How do you stand towards ' Rev.
IPopham ' (as the tradesmen would call him) ?
                                               have the promise of

fishing, and a bed with ' Rev. John,' and would ask for the fishing if you
would come too. But it wouldn't be worth while if we couldn't also

do Kennet, or Lambourne at Newbury, in our way back. When does

your new Duke give up Donnington ? or is it of any use to get a day out

of the club on the big river? They offered me one (leastwise the
secretary did). Is there aught to be killed in those tracks ? Next
IWotton.  have ' taken the lunars ' (as the middies say) of Wotton

on the big map of Surrey, and find it on the Blackwater rail, at such

480 Cliarles Kingsley.

Idistance that could leave my house at seven, and see the ghost of the
Iauthor of ' Sylva' (delightful old gentleman, too, to see) by nine. There

fore could get there and back in a day and meet you. The fishing seems
a chain of pondicules or pondlets, fed by a chalk spring out of Leith Hill.

As a geologist, I know what that ought to be. Leith Hill is 900 feet ;

highest chalk point, save Inkpen Beacon, south of Hungerford.

Valley of Holmesdale, say 500 --a good fall, and on chalk now and then,

when with a gentle ripple and a clear burning sun, fish yield themselves to

the embraces of a little saucy march-brown, or a minnow, and a fat black

alder, or again a real yellow sally (which ain't yellow, but orange legs and

lemon body, if you can get them). That's the sport ; to throw your fly,

and let it sink (never draw it), and in half a minute take it out gently to

see if aught's at the end of and so, hit him as you loved him, and
hold on. Therefore let's go to Wotton but only for one day. You
                             it,

                                     if

                                                         ;

                                                          if

                                                                                                       ;
must come home with me in the evening, per Blackwater rail my dog

cart will meet us at the station, and we will start early next morning--

whither?;     think, to my happy fishing-ground. We will fish both
                                                                                                    sou'wester --
        /
streams and, oh, my goodness -- leastwise                                       we have
                               !

                                               if

                                                                               a

all's in that blessed sound. Shelley was an ass when he wrote his ode to

the south-west wind. He didn't know what the dear old Zephyros was

good for who does, but we the heirs of all creation, masters of 'water
            ;

                           it J. ? '

                                                        it
                                                            is is
                                                                            a

                                                                                             ;

                                                                                                it
the"  mother  of all things  Paine, this  my ipsedavit. Paine Esquire's
      As for  going to

fishing was good when was Paine Esquire's but since has become

clubbate, clubbified, or beclubbed,       as man might say, by-too-many-

respectable-of-the-town-of-Farnham-gents-continually-and-with-                                      thumping-

bras s-and-other-minnows-becoopered.                                            warm sou'wester
                                                                                a
   " Given strong May fly about two days on, and                                                              ;
      ?
with gleams, you might do the gun-trick, for there are M. fishes but
        a a/
don't you desire that you may obtain the said combination of your

planets Wheeler at Troyle only allows one rod, and has not enough

******for two. So think the happy fishing-ground will be the place.
   " What lot of nonsense have writ and all about nothing for
                             ;                                                  I
                                                                                                         ;
                               I                                                              I
                                        iIf

                                                                   !
                                                                             ;
shall see you, my dear old fellow, on the 26th, d.v. But like writing to

you, and that's the truth you are so jolly and most people want to

make me wiser when they write, as         hadn't found out with Solomon,

that all vanity and vexation.
        is
                  is
   " Enclosed the portrait of the gentleman who told Thomas Hughes
that he would fish at Wotton on Whitmonday, totally forgetting that                                              it

was the club day, and he had the club sermon to preach, and the club
dinner to eat. am an ass, that am, as the parson remarked. But Whit
              I                I

                  Caddises and Caperers.                                                              481

ITuesday can go ; therefore, 0 friend, forgive, and correct the conse
quences of my exceeding stupidity, and try to fix Whit-Toosday. Now. If

you can come early on Friday, you'll come in for my tithe luncheon, and

be introduced to some of my jolly yeomen. If you can be here Monday,

you'll see the club, and dine wi'em --oh that you would ! They would
enjoy it so --and then we could start to Wotton simultaneous next

mo"rnTinhge. Saturday fishing stands ; but this is a black planet for
                                                                                               a
However, it'll change before then, and how the fish will feed when the
change comes. If you get free, get                                                                 I
                                                                   few sized stone flies, darkish               ; it.
                                                                   a
                                                                          ;
colour, fine lot of yellow about the tail also half-a-dozen smallest

governors, but with pale partridge wing, and pale HONEY-coloured tail

pheasant wings and orange tails are only fit for cockneys to catch dace

with at Hampton Court. Mind what say, I'll change off brace of
                                                                   I

                                                                               ;
either from you for any flies of mine you like also bring me (and will
pay thee) lb. avoirdups. of Skinner's best Bristol birdseye. You mind
that last, or I'll send you back for1                              Do you her
                                                it.                               ?
                  is
                                                                                         is
   " Opes opens. The glass has stopped going up, and thinking about;

going down. Wind has chopt from N. N. W. to E. N. E. {with the sun which
                                                                                  break after two or three
an't as good as against but may indicate                                     a

days of going round with the sun, and fine weather) evins grant for I'm                        !
froze. -- Coughing in limbo, and every soul in the parish in the flenzies.

Handkerchers      riz on the market guess,                         this           last month.
                                                                   the            black alder
   " Mind your  March browns --certain till
                                                I                                              comes  out,

                                                                                     a
which he won't here for three weeks, unless we have sudden change."

                  TO H. STAINTON, ESQ., F.L.S.
                is
                    a                                                                        April 1856.
   " Dear Sir,--                                                                               is 7,
                         J.
         " am glad to find that we have                                           mutual acquaintance in
         if I                                                      if
Lubbock, who      great friend of mine, and as good as he clever.
                                                                      II a
I  wish he would take up these caddises. But would work at them

myself,        you would entrust them to me.                                      see three years' work at

least before getting them at all in order,                                   (as you say) the thing has

not been done for my belief that the species are either very local,if
                ;
                                                    a
                        a                              is,
or very variable, depending on differences of soil and river-bed, and
                                                               is
that they will give great deal of trouble. My fishing-tackle maker
sickened me the other day by -- 'you talk of yellow sallies, sir, I've
seen twenty different sorts -- different sort for every stream
                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                  ;'

                                                                                                       ?

                                                                                                       I
(allowing for exaggeration) this                                   the case with one fly, local, not

common and strongly marked, what must be the case with the herd

482 CJiarles Kingsley.

will do what I can this year to arrange the typical species of our Hamp

shire, Surrey, and Berkshire streams (chalk, or iron gravel), and may

get a few Snowdon species in August. My belief is that the generality

of Snowdon species are quite distinct from ours, e.g., the all-killing grey
IGwynnant (Phyancte), which was to me new when went to Snowdonia.
IfHas any one worked the Welsh species ?
                                                                    you will do me the great

favour of hints as to what to do, and how to do                               should enjoy, amid
    Ia
                                                                                 a
                                                          iIt,
                                                                       is I
the intervals of country parish labour, to apply myself to them.                                                         have

great advantages, being surrounded by rivers and ponds, and finding
my sole amusement in fly-fishing, --once
                                                                    week, but no more. And

only fly-fisher can do the work, for he only watches, and forced

to  watch, the works   and ways of the family                       in situ.
                                                                    mention,
    " will get or     borrow the books you                                    and try to qualify

myself for an F.L.S., my great ambition since boyhood."

                                        TO THE SAME.

                                                                    EVERSLEY, April, 1856.

    "I have received with great delight your two books. 'Pictet*
                                                                              '

                                                                                          I

                                                                                                       is
    noble work, and shames one's own laziness and inaccuracy.                                                            have
a
                     is

                                    it
already made out from one fact, that our famous Gwynnant fly' of

Snowdonia,  his Hydropsyche variegata, or Montana, one of those

noble typical forms which there         no mistaking. It comes out in
                                        is

                                                I
Snowdonia in the beginning of May, before the great stone-fly Perla-

bicaudata (he brings his out in June), but suspect there are several
            Snowdon. A red-bodied and a brown-bodied Gwynnant
speciesII I

              ' in

                   I
follow the usual grey-bodied with yellow abdominal sutures and of
                                                                              :
these find no trace in his book.                  suppose this, like all things,
                                        I                                         II
                                                II                                             ;
worth looking into. will work the Hydropsyches in Snowdon this August;                          I is

but shall only get the perfect insects, fear, coming too late. Where

can get Stephens' Illustrations,' with his 190 British species, where

number makes one tremble?               am troubling you; but you yourself

have put yourself between the mandibles of one as greedy of all informa

tion as ever was Libellula larva of food --either consisting of water flies.

have my doubts as to Pictet's etuis' being always right                       can't help
                                        '
                                                                 ;
suspecting the cockspur caddis, made of sand, belong altogether to one

genus, the shelly coats of stone to another and so on but will inves

tigate. Phryganea grandis and Pantherina (flame brown and caperer)
seem with me always to make their cads of pebble, and when they

settle into pupct agglutinate them together in the mud, dozen in a
    ;

         I
                                                             I

                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                      ?
lump but will also here investigate. Where can get details on

Terla, Chloroperla (yellow Sally) and Sialis (Adder and Chantry)

                               What is the Good?                                                             483

      I" They are very curious to me as isolated types.                                 have put into the

    new edition of ' Glaucus' a hint for a few fly fishers in various parts, to
    form themselves into a ' Naiad club' to investigate these water flies. It
    Imight do much to science, and still more to the men.
                                                                                                        know the

    value of a little science, as an angler. In Snowdon, three years ago,
    when no one could catch anything, I found, for the first time in my

    life, Chloroperla viridis (yellow Sally) running on the burning boulders of

    a stream ; luckily had a good imitation (which I had never used), recog
    nised the natural fly by my scrap of science, and had good sport on
                                                                                        a
                                                                                                           it,
    while no one else caught anything, never having seen such fly, though

I it  was swarming under their feet So much for unscientific observation.
                               Ia
    And men who had been using the artificial Gwynnant (Hydropsyche,),;
                                     I
    had never seen the natural fly till  I!       (as new comer) caught                                 it,  and
                                                  II
                                                                a
    showed them the reality of what they had shown me as fur and feathers.

      think one could stir up sportsmen to think and watch these things
      if
    one might make them happier men. have now close to me splendid
           a                                                                            I
                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                          it
    angler and deer-stalker, and have made him set up an aquarium of

    caddises, and so forth, for his wife this winter, and am sure that has

given him new interest in life                        One line to say did not review

    your 'June' in the 'Saturday Review,' knew nothing of it. You can
                                                  II
stand on your own legs but am dreadfully vexed at their cutting

up Shields' book. have written to the editor, to tell him who Shields                                         is,
              I
and that he has made great mistake.I                                 have seen Shields, and am

delighted with him.            hope to take him down to-morrow to an ento

    mological pic-nic at Wimbledon, which Lord                       G                  gives to about forty

working men.                   shall introduce him to Lord G                            who as full of
                                                                                        I,
goodness in the heart as of Coleoptera in the head.                                                 is
                                                                                        am getting on

slowly with the Phryganids."

                               TO LORD                               .

                                                                        is
                                                                                     '
      " would have answered you before. But as to What the Good
is I                                                                                    ;
    Isuppose the only answer   is     God Himself the Good.'                               is

                            a      '                                                              it

                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                      ?'
      " But of Him we can form no intellectual conception and                                           this,

in addition to a thousand things, which makes me feel the absolute

certainty of                   resurrection, and  hope that this, our present life,
                                                  a
                                                               is
instead of being an ultimate one, which                              to decide our fate for ever,

      merely some sort of chrysalis state, in which man's faculties are so

narrow and cramped, his chances                   (I  speak of the millions, not the

units,) of knowing the good so few, that he may have chances here

afte"r,WphearthapdsoesconGtoinduarlelyqufirreeshoof ntehseetobuatll   eternity.         to love         mercy,
                                                                     to do justly,
                                                                                            112

484 Charles Kingsley.

and to walk humbly with Him ?-- is nearly all I know-- sin, Apapria, is

literally, as it signifies, the missing of a mark, the falling short of an
ideal, and not the transgression of an arbitrary decree ; and that each

Imiss brings a penalty, or rather is itself the penalty, (for do not believe

in arbitrary rewards and punishments,) is to me the best of news, and
gives me hope for myself, and every human being, past, present and

future, for it makes me look on them all as children under a paternal

education, who are being taught to become aware of, and use their own
powers in God's house, the universe, and for God's work in it ; and
in proportion as they learn and do that, they attain salvation, o-un^ua,
literally health and wholeness of spirit, ' soul,' which is like health of

body, its own reward -- one great part of that reward being not to know
that they have a soul --as health of body makes one unconscious of

one's body."

TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

(Who had sent a Pamphlet on the Sabbath question).

                                       EVERSLEY, Wednesday, July, 1856.

"I have read through your pamphlet forthwith, and with very
I Igreat delight.
cannot conceive why you should fancy that should
I Inot agree with it ; for agree with every word.
                                                   feel with you that

the only ground on which Sunday amusements can be really defended,

is as a carrying out of the divineness of the sabbath, and not as a re

Ilaxation of it ; but won't put in bad words to you what you have put
in infinitely better ones. IAnd as do not see how to lay down the
Iground of the sabbath better than you have done, so do not see how

to dogmatize about practical applications any farther than the hints you
I Ihave given.
have often fancied should like to see the great useless

naves and aisles of our cathedrals turned into museums and winter

gardens, where people might take their Sunday walks, and yet attend

service ; but such a plan could only grow up of itself, round a different
service than ours, or at least round a service interpreted and com

mented on by very different preaching; and till the Tartarus and

Elysium superstition, which lies as really at the bottom of this question
Ias at the bottom of all, is settled,  see no hope for that. It is you

yourself who made me feel, in that pamphlet, how the Tartarus question

comes in here, too, by a few lines towards the bottom of p. 15, ending,

I' a cast-away.' Those lines have made me see more than ever did,

the dignity of work and rest, and their analogy with God's work and
rest -- so justifying all that Parker, Emerson, or Carlyle have said about

by putting on ground which they deny. Yet the problem of
it,
                    it
                                   a

                                                                           if

                                                                                                                                           ?
human existence be to escape the impending torture -- cui bono                                                                                Who

                         Work for the Future.                                                         485

need care for rest, or work either, save to keep the body alive till the

soul is saved ? Till that doctrine vanishes, no one will feel any real

analogy between his life and God's life, and will be as selfish and

                                 as epicurean in
                                   of this dark
Icov"etIotuws asinthheisir
      work, and                                    his rest, as                        men are now.
        ignorance                                 superstition,                             suppose, which

enabled the old Jews to keep their sabbath (as they seem to have done
from the few hints we have) as a day of ' rejoicing before the Lord,'
in attempts more or less successful to consecrate to Him the simple
enjoyments of life -- in feasting, singing, and dancing. ' In the midst go

the damsels playing with the timbrels.' But this would be absurd here,

Iand therefore suppose it that the all-wise Book keeps the practical
                                 is,

                                              I
details so in the background, leaving each future nation to actualise the

sabbath according to its own genius.             think what you have said on

that   quite admirable.  (after  we  are  dead    and  alive                           for evermore)  shall
      Nevertheless, we
   "

see that conception carried out on earth.

                         In mighty lands beyond the sea,
                         While honour falls to such as thee,

                         From hearts of heroes yet unborn.

" For, my dear master, though the solution of this, and many another

problem which you have started, remains for our descendants, yet you

must not grow sad, or think that you have not done and are not still

doing, mighty work, in pointing out the laws by which alone they
      a
              ;
                                              it, a

                                                                                    a
can be solved. You are like man surveying tropic forest, which he

can only do by hewing his path yard by yard, unable to see a rood

before him other men will follow him, till, and plant, and build, while

he dies in faith, not having received the promises. And you will look

down from heaven upon this nation working on under the new spiritual

impulse which you have given and which will assuredly conquer, just

as Captain Sturt will look down on that glorious Australian empire

to-be, which he rescued out of the realm of Hades and the blank useless

unknown, at the expense of his health, his eyesight, and his life. As

Charles Mansfield, perhaps, may look down on that Paraguay which

will surely realise some day his highest dreams of its capabilities, and

through him too for his book (light though                                             seem) will not be
                   ;

                    I

                                                                    it
forgotten, and other men will carry out the conception, which he, per

haps, could not have done from over-conscientiousness, and worship of

too lofty an ideal.      can see, too, more and more, why, as you seem

to lament, you are shut out so strangely from sympathy with flowers

and beetles that you might have sympathy with men. And are they

not of more value than many beetles? Of the evangelical phrase

486 Charles Kirtgsley.

ology one word is true, that 'an immortal soul' (if people only

knew what an immortal soul meant !) is of more value than all the

material universe. And I can understand why there should be men

like you, to whom it is said, ' Thou shalt not be tempted to waste

thy time over the visible world, because thy calling is to work out that

spiritual moral world, of which man can learn just nothing from the
visible world -- which he can only learn from his own soul, and the

souls of other men.'

  " My dear master, I have long ago found out how little I can discover

about God's absolute love, or absolute righteousness, from a universe in
which everything is eternally eating everything else --infinite cunning and

shift (in the good sense). Infinite creative fancy it does reveal ; but
nothing else, unless interpreted by moral laws which are in oneself already,

and in which one has often to trust against all appearances, and cry out

of the lowest deep (as I have had to do) -- Thou art not Siva the de
stroyer. Thou art not even Ahriman and Ormuzd in one. And yet, if

Thou art not, why does Thy universe seem to say that Thou art ? Art
Thou a ' Deus quidam Deceptor,' after all ?-- No. There is something
in me--which not nature, but Thou must have taught me--which cries

and will cry : Though Thou slay me, as Thou hast slain world on world

already -- though I and all this glorious race of men go down to Hades with
Ithe ichthyosaurs and the mammoths, yet will trust in Thee. Though St.

Peter's words be fulfilled (as they may to-morrow by the simplest physical
laws) and the elements melt with fervent heat, and the earth and all the

works therein be burned up -- yet I know that my Redeemer, He who

will justify me, and make me right, and deliver me out of the grasp of

nature, and proclaim my dominion over nature, liveth, and will stand at

the latter day upon the earth, and in some flesh or other I shall see God,

see Him for myself as a one and accountable moral being for ever. But

beetles and zoophytes never whispered that to me. Any more than the

study of nature did to * * * * or to Cuvier himself. It can teach no
moral theology. It may unteach
                                       the roots of moral theology be not
                                it,
                                         hinted that in Glaucus' but
                                  if

                                      I
already healthy and deep in the mind.    I
                                             '
                                                         '
                                                              '
                                                              is

                                                                           '
                                                                                    :
would do no more, because many readers mean by moral and theo
I

              '

                      it
logy something quite different from what you and do, and would have

interpreted into a mere iteration of the old lie that science danger

ous to orthodoxy.

   " But won't talk of myself, save to say that sometimes envy you,
I                                        I

who are not distracted from work at the really human truths, by the

number of joints in grub's legs.       have been longing to hear from
                          aa      I

you and ought to have written to you, but had nothing to say. My
;

      I

life runs on here in very simple, easy way, what with the parish and

                                         Snowdon.                                    487

Mrs. Kingsley, and the children, and a little literary work, in which I
Iam trying to express in a new form the ideas which
                                                                        have got from
Iyou, and which have been trying to translate into all languages, from
I'The Saint's Tragedy ' to ' Glaucus.'
                                                         have no other work on earth,

and want none.

  " I am glad to hear you are going to Ireland. It will be indeed a
rest and amusement in the deepest sense. Only I do wish that you would

halt half way, and come across to Hughes and me, were it but for a

day. Do try--you will pass our door (Snowdon's two doors) at Bangor

and at Caernarvon. Why not stop and come to Beddgelert, from Caer
narvon thirteen miles, if but for a day -- all of you, and let me have the

delight of leading Mrs. Maurice's pony up Snowdon, making a wreath of

Alp club-moss for your niece's hat, as a testimony that she has been in

Ithe other world, the next world, should say, for there are three or four

worlds above it again. Or at least let me show you Froude's home at

Plasgwynant, which was the original Eden (for three months in the

yea"r   only, though).          and  do  not -- do  not  talk  of your  time  being  short,
       Do think of this,
for you have much to do yet--all the more, perhaps, because you do

not know what it is. The cloud is always thickest when and where the

win"d    is  about   to shift,  and roll it all away out of the  blue   sky.         can.
       Do     think   of my     little plans, and say yes if     you    possibly

Remember us both most lovingly to dear Mrs. Maurice."

   The " Farewell " to his niece, Mrs. Theodore Walrond, then
Charlotte Grenfell, was written this year, and as the second verse,

by some mistake, was not published, it is given entire here :

                     IMy fairest child, have no song to give you ;

                        No lark could pipe in skies so dull and grey ;
                     Yet, if you will, one quiet hint I'll leave you,

                               For every day.

                     I'll tell you how to sing a clearer carol

                        Than lark who hails the dawn or breezy down ;
                     To earn yourself a purer poet's laurel

                              Than Shakspeare's crown.

Ray Lodge,       Be good, sweet maid, and let who can be clever ;
                    Do lovely things, not dream them, all day long ;

                 And so make Life, Death, and that vast For Ever,
                             One grand sweet song.

             1856.

488 Charles Kingsley.

                                                                                                                          ·

                                   TO TOM HUGHES, ESQ.

" MY DEAR OLD LAD, --                                                                                                           EVERSLEY, 1856.

            " Froude cannot go with us; so are you willing to go to Snow-

don ? Killarney is finer, I know, and there are saumons ; but there are
saumons in Snowdon -- I know where, and we may have them in August
if we be canny. I'll show you a rock where you are sure of one. And
I want to go there, for several reasons : but Killarney is very tempting ;
only, as I get old, somehow, I don't like new places; I like to thumb

over the same book, and trot over the same bog, and feel 'homey'

Iwherever be.

   " Now if so be as we go to Snowdon, there is our tracks, &c. Buy

the two sheets of the Ordnance Maps (I'll go share in pence), which

comprises the country from Aber and Bangor north, to Port Madoc and

Festiniog south. Consider, behold, and perpend ; then send 'em on to

me, in the coat pocket  of one   Hughes, Esq., from a                                                                           Saturday night to  a
Monday morning, and     we will  talk it out. My plan
                                                                                                                                would be this --

There is no inn in Snowdon which is not awful dear,

                                 I

                                                             it,
Excepting Pen-y-gwrydd (you can't pronounce dear),

Which standeth in the meeting of noble valleys three.
One the vale of Gwynant, so well beloved by me,
is
      it
          is
One goes to Capel-Curig, and can't mind its name,

And one                 Llanberris Pass, which all men knows the same.

Between which radiations vast mountains does arise,

As full of tarns as sieves of holes, in which big fish will rise,

That just one day in the year, you be there, my boy,is,
                                 I
                                     if

                                        I
                                          I

                                                               a
About ten o'clock at night, and then wish you joy.

Now to this Pen-y-gwrydd inn purposeth to write.

(Axing the post town out of Froude, for can't mind quite),
                                                                                                                                a it
And to engage a room or two, for let us say week,
For fear of gents, and Manichees, and reading parties meek,

And there to live like fighting-cocks at almost bob day,                                                                     a
And arterwards toward the sea make tracks and cut away,
All for to catch the salmon bold in Aberglaslyn pool,
And work the flats in Traeth-Mawr, and will, or I'm fool.
                                 if

                                                                              a
And that's my game, which, you like, respond to me by post                                                                            ;

But fear will not last, my son, a thirteen days at most.
I

    is
            it

                ;I
Flies no object            can tell some three or four will do,

And John Jones, Clerk, he knows the rest, and ties and sells 'em too.I
Besides of which have no more to say, leastwise just now,
And so, goes to my children's school and umbly makes my bow.

                                                                                  C. K."

                          Warnborough Trout.                                                             489

                              TO THE SAME.

       " Of all  men  on  earth I should  like to have Tom           EVERSLEY, 1856.

                                                                   Taylor for a third.

  Entreat him to make it possible, and come and be a salvidge man

  with us ; and tell him I can show him views of the big stone work

  which no mortal cockney knows, because, though the whole earth is
  given to the children of men, none but we jolly fishers get the plums

  and raisins of by the rivers which run among the hills, and the lakes
  which sit a-top thereof. Tell him I'll show him such a view from Craig-
I
                I it,

                          if

                                          ;

                                is/

                                                                     3!

                                                                                             is
  y-Rhaidyr of Snowdon from the sole of his foot to the crown of his

  head, as tourist never saw, nor will see, 'case why, he can't find                             is ;it  and

    will show him the original mouth of the pit, which Llyn Dulyn, and

  the lightning lake, where the white syenite blasted into shivers, which

  make you shiver, you be sentimental -- but only think of the trouts --
  which the last saw killed in Llyn Melch was pounds, and we'll kill

  his wife and family and crow-berry and desolate Alpine plants grow

  thereby, and we will sleep among them, like love among the roses,

  Thomas. And oh, what won't we do, except break our necks? and

  I'll make Tom Taylor come down over Craig-y-Rhaidyr, which 700

  feet of syenite, the most glorious climb                         know, and the original
       ;I

                                             a
                                                                ;

                                                       I
  short-cut to Ludlow at Festiniog but wouldn't do on a hot day, or a

  dar"k  night.  you  ought to come  to   me  Saturday             night, Strettell              will be
          think

  here but I'll get you bed in the village. We should go to Reading

  by the 5.30 train, which will get us to Wolverhampton, 8.35, and there
  wait for the Holyhead mail at 12.44, which will drop us at Bangor at

I5  in the morning. There we can either go on by coach to Pen-y-Wynod,

  or walk on in the cool of the morning, fishing as we go, and send our
  traps by coach, to be dropped for us. Pray bring couple of dozen
                                              aI
  moderate lake-sized hooks, to tie flies on, for am out of hooks, exceptI

  the very biggest size, salmon-peel size, in fact.             a
    " You'll be pleased to hear that
                              a               got fishing at Lady Mildmay's
  famous Warnborough preserve last night -- the day was B. B. B., burn
                                 II
  ing, baking, and boiling, and as still as glass, so did not tackle-to tillI
  5.30 -- and between that and nine grassed twenty fish, weighing twenty-
                                                                                                 Biggest brace
  two pounds, besides losing  brace more whoppers.
  killed, three pounds and two pounds -- a dead bright calm, and a
  clear stream --in fifteen minutes had three fish, two of three pounds

  and one of two pounds, but lost one of them after long fight. Nota
  so shady, Tom, for all on shorm-fly and caperer.

     " Mind and don't get those flies too small. A size larger than what

                              I

                                                                     if

                                                                                         a
                                                                                               fly
    said would be no harm, but don't mind small hooks,                                           big be

4QO Charles Kingsley.

tied thereon --see what a difference a wise man and a fool may make.
( Here was a sketch of two flies -- ' wise men's fly,' and ' cockney
maiden's fly.') Let's have lots for our money, say I, in flies, as in all
things. Why do fish take your caperer, spite of his ugliness, but
because he looks the fattest one they ever saw yet ? Think over these

things.

   " Poor dear Charles's * book has come at last. I think it perfect.

Tell Ludlow he was quite right in altering as little as possible, and that

I am to review it in ' Fraser's.' The ' Saturday ' has already got a review

in hand."

   At last the happy day in August was fixed, and the following

invitation sent before the three friends started for Snowdonia :

                                     THE INVITATION.

                                        Come away with me, Tom,
                                             Term and talk is done ;
                                    My poor lads are reaping,
                                             Busy every one.
                                             Curates mind the parish,
                                             Sweepers mind the Court,
                                        We'll away to Snowdon
                                        For our ten days' sport,
                                        Fish the August evening

                                 Till the eve is past,

                                             Whoop like boys at pounders
                                        Fairly played and grassed.
                                             When they cease to dimple,
                                             Lunge, and swerve, and leap,
                                             Then up over Siabod,
                                             Choose our nest, and sleep.
                                        Up a thousand feet, Tom,
                                             Round the lion's head,
                                        Find soft stones to leeward
                                        And make up our bed.
                                        Eat our bread and bacon,
                                             Smoke the pipe of peace,
                                        And, ere we be drowsy,
                                             Give our boots a grease.
                                             Homer's heroes did so,
                                        Why not such as we ?
                                        What are sheets and servants ?
                                             Superfluity.
                                             Pray for wives and children

             · " Letters from Paraguay, by Charles Blachford Mansfield."

The Invitation.                                            491

Safe in slumber curled,
Then to chat till midnight

O'er this babbling world.
Of the workmen's college,
Of the price of grain,
Of the tree of knowledge,
Of the chance of rain ;

If Sir A. goes Romeward,
If Miss B. sings true,
If the fleet comes homeward,
If the mare will do, --

Anything and everything --

Up there in the sky

AAnngdelnsou"ndsearinsttsan"daures, by.

Down, and bathe at day-dawn,
Tramp from lake to lake,
Washing brain and heart clean

Every step we take.

Leave to Robert Browning

Beggars, fleas, and vines ;
Leave to mournful Ruskin

Popish Apennines,
Dirty Stones of Venice

And his Gas-lamps Seven ;

We've the stones of Snowdon
And the lamps of heaven.

Where's the mighty credit

AIInnnyathdgemoiroirsi"engssneoAewslpy"s  ?      "

                                          glory

                                          scalps."

Leave such signs and wonders

For the dullard brain,

As aesthetic brandy,

Opium and cayenne ;
Give me Bramshill common

(St. John's harriers by),
Or the vale of Windsor,

England's golden eye.
Show me life and progress,

Beauty, health, and man ;

IHouses fair, trim gardens,
Turn where'er      ca"n.High
Or, if bored with                                   Art,"

And such popish stuff,

One's poor ear need airing,
Snowdon's high enough.
While we find God's signet

Fresh on English ground,
Why go gallivanting

492 Charles Kingsley.

With the nations round ?

Though we try no ventures
Desperate or strange ;
Feed on common-places
In a narrow range ;
Never sought for Franklin

Round the frozen Capes ;

Even, with Macdougall,*
Bagged our brace of apes ;
Never had our chance, Tom,
In that black Redan ;

Can't avenge poor Brcreton
Out in Sakarran ;
Tho' we earn our bread, Tom,

By the dirty pen,
What we can we will be,
Honest Englishmen.
Do the work that's nearest,
Though it's dull at whiles,
Helping, when we meet them,
Lame dogs over stiles ;

See in every hedgerow
Marks of angels' feet,

Epics in each pebble
Underneath our feet ;

Once a year, like schoolboys,
Robin-Hooding go,

Leaving fops and fogies

A thousand feet below.

   On the nth of August they started, and in the train he writes

home.

" A glorious day. Snowdonia magnificent. The sensation of going

through the tubular bridge very awful and instructive. The sound of

the finest bass note have ever heard. Anglesey, an ugly wild flat
it,
     5,

                       I

                                                                  5
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                                               ;
place, like Torridge Moors, with great dunes of blown sand along the
                                       "
coast, fit for those weird old Druids

                                                                                 CAPEL CURIG, 12 August, 1856.

   " We are sleeping here, being too tired to get an inch further.
We never slept forty winks last night in the train started from Bangor
at and were on our legs till p.m. We went up Nant Francon, then
up to Idwal. Fish would not rise but the rivers are flooded, and,

Bishop of Labuan.

                                     Snowdonia.                   493

therefore, we shall have noble sport. But the glory was what I never

saw before, all those grand mountains, 'silver-veined with rills,' cataracts

of snow-white     cotton threads, if you will,  zigzagging down every rock-face
-- sometimes      1000 feet -- and the whole
                                                air alive with the roar of waters.

The greenness and richness of the mountains after our dusty burnt-up

pla"inAs,ll  is most  refreshing.    gleams ;   but  the  clouds  on Glydyr Vawr
              day we   had steaming

only broke to form again, and we had twenty showers, shrouding the

cliffs with long grey veils of lace. I wish I could tell you what colour

the mountains are. Not pink, not purple, not brown, but a sort of pale

pink madder, with vast downs of bright green grass interspersed. And

oh, as we walked past Colonel Pennant's cyclopean walls at Bangor, and

saw that great gap high up in the air ten miles off, and knew that we

should be in it ere noon, it was like a dream ; and all the more dreamy

for the sleeplessness of the past night. We found a noble fountain,

which Colonel Pennant has built by the roadside, and there washed our
selves into our senses, and went on. At Bethesda we tried for break

fast, at six a.m., and were refused by all the few houses which were open,

till we found a nice little woman, who gave us infinite broiled ham, tea,

and porter, to carry up the hills. We tried Ogwen River for salmon

peel, amid those exquisite parks and woods ; but it was too much
Iflooded. By night had picked my first Saxifraga stellaris, and knew
Ithat was in the former world. The parsley fern is growing between
Ievery stone, and the beech fern too, but the latter very poor.
                                                                  have

dried for the children the water-lobelia, and Sparganium natans, to do

which I walked up to my knees on Idwal. I had not pluck to go up to
the Fwll Du. Tell my mother I am going there shortly. Snowdon is

now looking like a great grey ghost with seven heads, and as soon as one

head is cut off a fresh one grows ; but more are cut off than grow, and

the clouds which stream up from the S.W. fall lower and lower, and have

now canopied the whole head of Moel Siabod, who is looking in at our

window 2000 feet down, the impudent fellow, though I am 1000 feet

high. Wherefore we shall have more rain. . . .
   " To-morrow up at six; walk to Pen-y-gwryd, and then up to Edno !"

                                                                                                              PEN-Y-GWRYD.ft.

  I" have had, as far as scenery is concerned, the finest day I ever

had. We started for Edno at 10, but did not find it till 2, because
we mistook the directions, and walked from 10 till i-3o over a Steinerer
Maar, a sea of syenite and metamorphic slate which baffles all descrip
tion, 2000 above Gwynant, ribs and peaks and walls of rock leaping

494 Charles Kingsley.

up and rushing down, average 50 to 100 ft., covered with fir, club moss,
crowberry and bearberry, and ling, of course. Over these we had to

scramble up and down, beating for Edno lake as you would beat for a

partridge, but in vain. All we found was one old cock grouse, who went

off hollowing ' Cock-cock-what-a-shame-cock-cock ' till we were fairly

beat. In despair we made, not a dash, but a crawl, at Moel Meirch

I(' Margaret's Peak,' some pathetic story suppose), which rises about

100 ft. above the stony sea, a smooth pyramid of sandy-pink syenite.

Hughes got up first, by a crack, for the walls are like china, and gave a

who-whoop ; there was Edno half a mile beyond, and only a valley as

deep as from Finchampstead church to the river to cross, beside a few

climbs of 50 ft. So there we got, and eat our hard-boiled eggs and
drank our beer, and then set to, and caught just nothing. The fish,

always sulky and capricious, would not stir. But the delight of being

there again, 2200  up, out of the sound of aught but the rush of
                   ft.
                                                         is

                                                                                                     !

                                                                                    is

                                                               I
                                                                                                         a
wind and water and the whistle of the sheep (which just like penny

whistle ill-blown), and finding oneself at home there Every rock, even

the steps of slate and footholds of grass which  and used to use,

just the same. Unchanged for ever. It an awful thought. Soon we

found out why the fish wouldn't rise. The cloud which had been hang

ing on Snowdon, lowered. Hebog and Cnicht caught it. It began to

roll up from the sea in great cabbage-headed masses, grew as dark as

twilight. The wind rolled the lake into foam we staggered back to an
          I
                                      a
                                                                                        ;
                                                                    it
                                                                                                     a
old cave, where we shall sleep, please God, ere we come home, and then

the cloud lowered, the lake racing along in fantastic flakes and heaps of

white steam hiding everything 50 yards off one minute, then leaving all
clear and sharp-cut pink and green. While out of came rain of
marbles and Minnie" bullets -- rain which searches, and drenches, and

drills. Luckily had on a flannel shirt. We waited as long as we

dared, and then steered home by compass, for we could not see 50 yards,

except great rows of giants in the fog, sitting humped up side by side,
like the ghosts of the sons of Anak staring into the bogs. So home we

went, floundering through morass and scrambling up and down the

giants, which were crags     50 to 100    ft. high, for we dared not pick our
road for fear of losing our  bearings by
                                          compass. And we were wet --oh,
were we not wet but, as make-weight, we found the " Grass of Par
nassus "  in
                       ?
                                          a

                                                   I

                                                                        It
                                                                                        if
          plenty, and as we coasted the vale of Gwynant, 1,500 ft.

up, the sight of Snowdon, sometimes through great gaps of cloud, some

times altogether hidden, the lights upon that glorious vista of Gwynant and
Dinas, right down to Hebog --the flakes of cloud rushing up the vale of

Gwynant far below us-- no tongue can describe it. could see Froude's

fir-wood, and home- close, quite plain from Moel Meirch. looked as

                      Visitors Book at Pen-y-gwryd.                                                                                                                   495

you could have sent a stone into but was four miles off.                                                                                                              have
                                                 is                     is it              a
                                                                                is
                                                         ;;                                   I
                                                                   it,                  ;            ;I
got for you grass of Parnassus Alpine club-moss ladies' mantle ivy-
                                                                                                                        a
lea"veTdhecagmrepaatnulbauttebrweoercth          fern A. Oreopteris (sweet fern).
                    I                                out of flower (as the globe           flower),                                                                   but
                        I

                                       ;
                                         3
I it  stars every bog with its shiny yellow-green stars of leaves. Good bye.

      a"mP.uSp.   at  half-past             for  Gwynant,   which       full of salmon.    am drying
                       have just            got  your dear  letter.     Tell Rose that
                 --

all the plants can for her. . . Tell Maurice saw grouse and
                                                 .                      I
                                                       .
                                                             .

                                                             ."
water-ouzel--lots of these last.

   When the brief holiday came to an end, the three friends
were asked by the landlord of the inn, at Pen-y-gwryd, to write
their names in his visitors' book. The following verses were
speedily composed, and though the autographs have been cut out
of the book by some tourist the lines were preserved
      III
                                                 TOM TAYLOR.
                                      a3

                                I

                                                    a
                                                                 a
                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                                                  :

                                                                                                                                                                   ;
         came to Pen-y-gwryd with colours armed and pencils,

      But found no use whatever for any such utensils

      So in default of them took to using knives and forks,
      And made successful drawings-- of Mrs. Owen's corks.

                                CHARLES KINGSLEY.

        came to Pen-y-gwryd in frantic hopes of slaying
      Grilse, Salmon, lb. red-fleshed Trout, and what else there's no saying
      But bitter cold and lashing rain, and black nor'eastern skies, sir,
      Drove me from fish to botany, sadder man and wiser.

                                                 TOM HUGHES.

         came to Pen-y-gwryd larking with my betters,

      A mad wag and mad poet, both of them men of letters

      Which two ungrateful parties after all the care I've took
      Of them, make me write verses in Henry Owen's book.

                                                 T. T.

      We've been mist-soak'd on Snowdon, mist-soak'd on Glyder Vawr,                       ;
                                                                                                     ;
      We've been wet through on an average every day three times an hour
      We've walk'd the upper leathers from the soles of our balmorals
      And as sketchers and as fishers with the weather have had our quarrels.

                                                 C. K.

      But think just of the plants which stufFd our box, (old Yarrel's gift,)
      And of those which might have stuff'd
                                                                 it     the clouds had given a lift  :

                                                                   if

      Of tramping bogs, and climbing cliffs, and shoving down stone fences

      For Spiderwort, Saossurea, and Woodsia ilvensis.

I496 Charles Kingsley.
                                               is,
                                                                                   ;aT. H.

                                                                                                                      ;Oh my dear namesake's breeches, you never see the like.
                                                                                                                             !He burst them all so shameful a crossing of a dyke.
           But Mrs. Owen patch'd them as careful as a mother,
                                                                                                                                                          ;;With flannel of three colours-- she hadn't got no other.

                                                         T. T.I
                  I
          But can we say enough of those legs of mountain muttons,I
          And that onion sauce lies on our souls, for it made of us three gluttons ?
II        And the Dublin stout is genuine, and so's the Burton beer ;                                                                                         ;
      I   And the apple tarts they've won our hearts, and think of soufflets here !

                                                   C. K.

           Resembling that old woman that never could be quiet,
           Though victuals (says the child's song) and drink formed all their diet :
          My love for plants and scrambling shared empire with my dinner,
          And who says it wasn't good must be a most fastidious sinner.

                                                   T. H.

          Now all I've got to say you can't be better treated
           Order pancakes and you'll find they're the best you ever eated.

       If you scramble o'er the mountains you should bring an ordnance map

              endorse all as previous gents have said about the tap.

                                                    T. T.

            Pen-y-gwryd, when wet and worn has kept warm fireside for us,
           Socks, boots, and never-mention-ems, Mrs. Owen still has dried for us
          With host and hostess, fare and bill so pleased we are that going,
          We feel for all their kindness, 'tis we not they are Owen

                                         T. H. T. T. C. K.

            Nos tres in uno juncti hos fesimus versiculos
            Tomas piscator pisces qui non cepi sed pisciculos,
            Tomas sciagraphus, sketches qui non feci nisi ridiculos,
            Herbarius Carolus montes qui lustravi perpendiculos.

                                                          T. H.

            There's big trout hear in Edno, likewise in Gwynant lake,
           And the governor and black alder are the flies that they will take,
           Also the cockabundy, but can only say,

        If you think to catch big fishes only Hope you may.

                                                    T. T.

             have come in for more of mountain gloom than mountain glory,
            But I've seen old Snowdon rear his head with storm-tossed mist wreaths

             stood in the fight of mountain winds upon Bwlch-Cwm-y-Llan,
           And go back an unsketching but better minded man.
                         a

                               The Rectory Lawn.                                                        497

                                                     c. K.

          And I too have another debt to pay another way,

          For Kindness shown by these good souls to one who's far away,
          Even to this old colly dog who tracked the mountains o'er,
          For one who seeks strange birds and flowers on far Australia's shore.

          In the course of the autumn several American friends came

and went : one from the Southern States, thus recalls his visit

and the Rectory life at Eversley in 1856 :

 "... It is your own fault if Eversley does no more seem to me a

name. When I think of Mrs. Kingsley and of you I seem to myself to

be sitting with you still in those quaint old rooms. Still Maurice comes

by with an insect or a flower, or just a general wonder and life in his
Ieyes-- still
                hear the merry laugh of the little Princess, and see Dandy
lying lazy, smiling and winking in the sun ; and I fill my olive-wood

pipe, and saunter in and out of the aromatic old study and lounge, a

new man and a happier one, on the sloping green lawn, under the good

old fir-trees. And so I talk on as if I were with friends long known,

...and known long to be cherished much. All of which is wholly your
fault and Mrs. Kingsley's.     If you are not too busy, I am sure you will

write and tell me how the novel advances                     (Two Years Ago                             and how
                               is                         "
Eversley in all its regions                                                                        !),

                   TO FRANCIS RUSSELL, ESQ.

        " am horror-struck.    Mrs. Kingsley declares                    Eversley, 1856.
                                                                   have never answered
        I                                                       aI
                          iIfThe perpetual variety of work which have been inI
your letter                                                           I

must be my excuse              am guilty. To-day, however, have no excuse of

work, being idle, from having been rolled into pancake yesterday by

a horse, who lay on me for five pleasant minutes at the bottom of a ditch.

We were delighted with the Parnassia, and astonished at your knack

of drying.   I   never saw flowers dried so well. As for the vivarium,

everything and all information, to be got from man named A. Lloyd,
                               if                               a

                                          is
I2        Portland Road. But your friend be at Edinburgh, an hour's work
      r,
at low tide at the back of Musselburgh pier will give him all that                                      is

wanted, and the hints in Glaucus ought to be enough as to preserving
                               '
                                                       '

them alive.  1.  have no news to tell you.                   I  work in the parish and

write, and seldom get out to kill great pike or two. Such an autumnI
                               it

                                              a
        never remember. All our summer gardens are still untouched by frost,

and the country looks as did in June.                                        KK
         vol.

49 8 Charles Kingsley.

" What do you think of the peace prospects ? France bankrupt ;

the Emperor's life not worth two years' purchase. Russia bullying as
Ibadly as ever, and Italy at a dead-lock.
                                               give the peace two years
to live. Will it live one ? Ought it to live one ? "

   Mr. Kingsley having been asked to write a preface to Tauler's
Life, now writes to Miss Winkworth.

                                                                                          EVERSLEY, August?,, 1856.

   " I shall be most happy to write the preface to Tauler's Sermons.
Believe me, I have no fear of Pantheism in Tauler. I shall be delighted
to do all I can to spread your translation. Believe me, you will be
doing a good work ; may it prosper ! I need not say, remember me
Imost affectionately to Chevalier Bunsen, and thank him (ought not to

.... Ithank you too ?) for the ' Signs of the Times,' which has taught me much.
          You will be glad to hear, am sure, that your ' Theologia ' is
Ibeing valued by everyone to whom have recommended
              I                                           and have

                                             a

                                    I

                                                                 is
                                                                          is

                                                                                         ;

                                                                        if it,

                                                                       is ;I I
more hope of Tauler, because, as suppose, he more like the teaching

(in form) to which the many have been accustomed, and which they can
              would certainly leave out the Romanist passages
understand.                                                                                 am

sure that they are really only excrescences, which have nothing to do with

the real bone and muscle of his or any man's soul and you do not

omit them, your chance of hearing gone                 My hope                            that

the Evangelicals will read Tauler, even though they may shrink from the
 Theologia.' "
'
                                                       December
   I                                                   I                1856.

" am at present busy with the Preface to Tauler.            if

                                                                 it \,
                                                          am delighted

with him. Only two passages want to ask you about,                      be not
              9,
too late.
                             '
                                      '

                                I
" 1. On page 287, for receizw/,' surely read receizr/A.'
" In line                                      '
                                                    '
              for bringing forth,' surely read begotten,' or being
begotten.' *                                              if
" As they stand, these two words make no sense, and
                                                                  is

                                                                         '
                                                          they be so

in your MS., must be, should think, misreadings. Tauler surely
              I

* The passage referred to in "Tauler's Life and Sermons " this :-- " By these
                                         is
                                                     is
                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                      is
things they are hindered from coming to the best and highest truth, for they ought
                                               accidental-- even as our Lord
to keep themselves free and empty of all that

free and alone, and receiveth Himself ever afresh, without interval or time from His
Heavenly Father -- and in the same Now
                                         ever without ceasing begotten afresh in

perfectness, with thankful praise, into the majesty of the Father in co-equal dignity."

                  Tattlers Life and Sermons.                                                 499

speaking of that most important and now utterly forgotten doctrine of
the eternal (i.e., never-ceasing) generation of the Son from the Father,

which Eckhart also held so clearly.
   "Next, in p. 317, 'has no longer any distinct perception of virtue

or vice.' May I ask for a little explanation on this? Does Tauler

mean virtue and vice in the casuist sense, as mere acts involving

rewards and punishments, and that the soul loses any distinct percep
tion of them from having got altogether into the ground of perfect love

from which all virtue springs, and so feeling, for the time, no resistanceit,
against that love in itself, prompting it to transgress law ? Can you soa
word as to escape the chance of people's mistaking the expression

(as they surely will) for no perception of the distinction between virtue
and vice' -- which, as we know, was what the brethren of the Free

Spirit caricatured Eckhart's doctrine into
                       '
                              '

                                             is
                                                  ?*

                                                          is
" Pray take care of this, for the devil                        very busy, and no one

knows better than he, that nothing stronger than its weakest part,' or

more ready to point out the said weakest part to Pharisee, or                                           a
                                                                                    a
Sadducee, or scribe."
                                                                                          :
The preface was written, as he says, with great diffidence.
Like the preface to the " Theologia," goes down into the deep
                       is

                                 ;

                               if

                                                 it
things of God, and     worthy of its subject --especially the

passages on the Mystics they are too long to quote, but the

closing pages must be given only to tempt thoughtful persons

to read the book itself, of which Mr. Kingsley says

   "They will find the same spiritual food which they have found
already in St. Bernard, A' Kempis, and Madame Guyon; and find

there also, perhaps more clearly than in any mystic writer, safeguard

against the dangers which especially beset them against the danger of
mistaking their passing emotions for real and abiding love of good

against exalting any peculiar intuition which they may think they have
attained into source of self-glorification, and fancying they become
something by the act of confessing themselves nothing. For with
                                                               ;
                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                 ;

*
       it

                     a
                                  it

                                            is
                                                       it, p.
" Tauler's Life and Sermons,"                                317. "And then, while  (the soul) beholds
                                                               it
                                                                                    a it
                                                                                      it ;

                                                                                                                    it
God, and then becomes more united with Him, the union may become such that

God altogether pours Himself into                              and draws so entirely into Himself that

no longer has any distinct perception of virtue or vice, or recognizes any marks by

which knows what       itself. But God regards the soul as creature. There

fore let the light of grace overpower the light of nature in you for the higher

knowledge the soul attains in the light of grace, the darker does                            deem the light

of nature."

500 Charles Kingsley.

Tauler, whether he be right or wrong in any given detail, practical
righteousness of the divinest kind and loftiest kind is at once the

object, and the means, and the test, of all upward steps. God is the

Supreme Good which man is intended to behold ; but only by being

inspired by Him, owing all to Him, and copying Him, can he behold

Him, and in that sight find his highest reward, and heaven itself.

   "But there are those who, opprest by doubts and fears and sorrows

very different from those of which I have just spoken, may find in

Tauler's genial and sunny pages a light which will stand them in good

stead in many an hour of darkness. There are those, heaped beyond

desert with every earthly bliss, who have had to ask themselves, in

awful earnest, the question which all would so gladly put away. Were

II stripped to-morrow of all these things, to stand alone and helpless as
see thousands stand, what should I then have left ? . . . . Tremblingly

they have turned to religion for comfort, under the glaring eye of the

dark spectre of bereavement, but have felt about all commonplaces,

Ihowever true, as Job felt of old : miserable comforters are ye all ! Oh !
that knew where I might find HIM. . . . To such Tauler can tell

something, of that still waste, where a man, losing all things else, shall
find himself face to face with God, and hear from Him that which no

man can   utter again   in words   even  to the wife of his  bosom.      abyss  of
          for ' darker  struggles   and  deeper problems,'    and ' the
   " And

boundless doubt,' Tauler can solve these for no man, but he can tell

how he solved them for himself; how he came to find an eternal

light shining for ever in that utter darkness, which the darkness

could not comprehend ; an eternal ground in the midst of that abyss,

which belonged not to the abyss, nor to the outward world which

had vanished for the moment, nor to space, nor time, nor any category
of human thought, or mortal existence ; and that its substance was the

everlasting personal good, whose love is righteousness. Tauler can

point out the path by which he and others came to see that light, to
find that rock of ages ;-- the simple path of honest self-knowledge, self-

renunciation, self-restraint, in which every upward step towards right

exposes some fresh depth of inward sinfulness, till the once proud man,

crushed down like Job and Paul, by the sense of his own infinite mean
ness, becomes like them, a little child once more, and casts himself

sim"pAlynduptohnent,hesogTeanuerleorsitwy illofteHll imhimw, htohemreamdeayHciomme to him the vision,

dim, perhaps, and fitting ill into clumsy words, but clearer, surer,

nearer to him than the ground on which he treads, or than the foot
which treads it,-- the vision of an everlasting spiritual substance, most

human and yet most divine, Who can endure; and Who, standing

The Vision of God.                                      SGI

beneath all things, can make their spiritual substance endure likewise,
though all worlds and stars, birth, and growth, and death, matter, space,

and time, should melt in very deed, --

                                ' And like the baseless fabric of a vision,
                                      Leave not a rack behind. ' *

   * Preface by Rev. Charles Kingsley to the "History of the Life of Rev. John
Tauler," of Strasbourg, temp. 1340.

THE GREAT FIR TREES ON THE RECTORY LAWN AT EVERSLEY.

                    END OF VOL. I.

         BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO, PRINTERS, WHITEFHIARS.  

CHARLES KINGSLEY

         HIS LETTERS AND
   MEMORIES OF HIS LIFE.

      EDITED BY HIS WIFE.

' ' Sleepe after toylc, port after stormie seas,

Ease  after  warre, death after  "lifeF,adeoreies  greatly please."
                      Spenser's
                                                    Queen," Book     I.,  Canto  ix.

                    IN TWO VOLUMES.
                            VOL. II.

WITH STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS.

Henry S. King & Co., London.

                                 1877.

A3

«.

                                         of translation and of reproduction are reserved.)

              CONTENTS.

              CHAPTER XVI.

THE FATHER IN HIS HOME-- AN ATMOSPHERE OF JOY -- THE OUT-DOOR                     PAOB
      NURSERY-- LIFE ON THE MOUNT--FEAR AND FALSEHOOD-- THE
      TRAINING OF LOVE -- FAVOURITES AND FRIENDS IN THE HOUSE, IN                     i

       THB STABLE, AND ON THE LAWN

              CHAPTER XVII.

                                    1857.

              AGED 38.

"Two YEARS AGO"-- THE CROWDED CHURCH --UNQUIET SUNDAYS-
LETTERS TO MR. BULLAR-- REV. PETER WOOD-- DR. RIGG -- MR. TOM
                                                   A NAVAL CHAPLAIN--
HUGHES,  PIETISTS AND Bunas-- LETTER FROM          MUTINY --TEMPORARY
LECTURE        BRISTOL -- MARK ix.   44 -- INDIAN
FAILURE   AT  ASSOCIATIONS --THE    ROMANCE OF     REAL LIFE .  ..                13
         OF

              CHAPTER XVIII.

                                                                           1858.  45

                                                             AGED 39.

EVERSLEY WORK -- DIPHTHERIA --LECTURES AND SERMONS AT ALDERSHOT
      -- BLESSING THE COLOURS OF THE 22x0 REGIMENT -- STAFF COLLEGE
      -- ADVANCED THINKERS -- LETTER FROM REV. G. BOYLE -- POEMS AND
      SANTA MAURA-- LETTER FROM DR. MONSBLL-- LETTERS TO DR.
      MONSELL, MR. LEWIS, DEAN STANLEY, &c. -- LETTER FROM CAPTAIN
      CONGREVE-- BIRTH OF HIS SON GRENVILLE-- SECOND VISIT TO YORK
      SHIRE -- CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. HULLAH ON SONGS --THE LAST
     BUCCANEER-- THE KNIGHT'S LEAP-- A HAPPY CHRISTMAS --LETTERS
      ON MIRACLES TO SIR WILLIAM COPE

vi Contents.

                        CHAPTER XIX.

                        1859-

                        AGED 40.

SANITARY WORK-- FIRST SERMON AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE-- QUEEN'S                      PAGE

CHAPLAINCY -- FIRST VISIT TO WINDSOR -- LETTER FROM COLONEL A.
JONES -- LETTER TO       ATHEIST -- CORRESPONDENCE WITH ARTISTS --
CHARLES BENNETT,    AN  FREDERICK SHIELDS -- ARCHIDIACONAL EN

CROACHMENTS--LETTER TO THE RURAL DEAN AND THE BISHOP --

LADIES' SANITARY ASSOCIATION-- LETTER FROM JOHN STUART MILL 69

                        CHAPTER XX.

                                                                          1860.  99

                                                             AGED 41.

PROFESSORSHIP OF MODERN HISTORY-- DEATH OF HIS FATHER AND OF
      MRS. ANTHONY FROUDE --PLANTING THE CHURCHYARD -- VISIT TO
     IRELAND -- FIRST SALMON KILLED -- WET SUMMER -- SERMON ON
      WEATHER-- LETTER FROM SIR CHARLES LYELL-- CORRESPONDENCE-
      RESIDENCE IN CAMBRIDGE -- INAUGURAL LECTURE IN THE SENATE
      HOUSE --VISITS TO BARTON HALL -- LETTER FROM SIR CHARLES
       BUNBURY

                        CHAPTER XXI.

                        1861--1862.

                                                       AGED 42 TO 43.            123

CAMBRIDGE --LECTURES TO THE PRINCE OF WALES -- LETTER FROM REV.
     S. HANSARD --ESSAYS AND REVIEWS-- LETTERS TO DR. STANLEY-
     BISHOP OF WINCHESTER -- MR. TOM HUGHES --CAMPBELL OF ISLAY --
      TRACTS FOR PRIESTS AND PEOPLE -- DEATH OF THE PRINCE CONSORT
      --LETTER TO SIR C. BUNBURY-- BLUE ROCK DOVES AT THE GRANGE
      --THE WATERBABIES -- INSTALLATION ODE AT CAMBRIDGE -- VISIT TO
      SCOTLAND -- BRITISH ASSOCIATION -- LORD DUNDREARY -- LETTER TO
      PROFESSOR ROLLESTON ON DEGRADATION THEORY-- COTTON FAMINE
      IN LANCASHIRE

                               Contents.                                                        vii

                   CHAPTER XXII.

                               1863.

                               Aged 44.

Fellow of the     Geological Society --Work at    Cambridge  -- Prince                          PAGE
     of Wales's  Wedding -- Wellington College  Chapel and    Museum
--Letter from Dr. Benson-- Lecture at Wellington and Me
morial -- Letters to Sir Charles Lyell, to Mr. Pengelly, on
Beekites--to Mr. Bates, on Mocking Butterflies-- Whitchurch
Still-life-- Toads in Holes -- D.C.L. Degree at Oxford-- Bishop
Colenso-- Sermons on the Pentateuch --The            Waterbabies --
Letter on the Articles --Failing Health
                                                                                                151

                   CHAPTER XXIII.

                               1864--1865.

                   Aged 45 to 46.

Illness--Controversy with Dr. Newman-- Apologia--Journey to
the South of France -- Biarritz --Pau --An Earthquake-- Nar-
bonne--The Schoolboy's Sea-- Beziers-- Pont du Gard-- Wild
Flowers -- Nismes  -- Avignon  -- Sermons in London         at Windsor
--Enclosure of     Eversley    Common -- Death of     and  Right Hon.
                                                     the
Thomas Erskine -- University Sermons at Cambridge -- Muscular
Christianity and Chivalry      T--riMnri.tyJo--hHnonS. tSutaerptheMn ilSl'psrinLgonRdiocne
Committee-- Letter on the
--Letter on Subscription -- Savonarola -- Luther and Demono-
Elovgeyrs--leyVisiRtecotof ryQueaennd EWmemlalingotfontheCoSllaengdew--icThheIslaLnitdesrartyo
World--Wesley and Oxford --The Mammoth on Ivory -- Bewick's
Autobiography -- Death of King Leopold--Lines written at

Windsor Castle                                                                                  189

                          CHAPTER XXIV.

                                                           1866-- 1867.

                                            Aged 47 to 48.
Cambridge -- Death of Dr. Whewell-- The American Professorship

     -- Monotonous Life of the Country Labouring Class -- Penny
     Readings -- Strange Correspondents-- Life of Bewick-- Letters
     to Max Muller-- The Jews in Cornwall-- The Meteor Shower

viii Contents.

--LETTER TO PROFESSOR ADAMS AND SERMON IN THE CHAPEL ROYAL                               PACT

--" TFRHAESEHRO'SUSEMAGOAFZINLOERD"--S --BIARDFALTIHFEER,'S     EDUCATION  OF HIS SON--
                                                             WOOD WRENS
                                                                           --NAMES AND

PLACES-- DARWINISM--BEAUTY OF COLOUR, ITS INFLUENCE AND
ATTRACTIONS --FLAT-FISH--ICE PROBLEMS-- BAGSHOT SANDS-- ST. AN
DREW'S AND BRITISH ASSOCIATION -- ABERGELDIE CASTLE -- SCOTTISH

ANTIQUITIES-- HORACE FIELD'S HEROISM-- RULES FOR STAMMERERS . 225

CHAPTER XXV.

1868.

AGED 49.

ATTACKS OF THE PRESS-- LECTURES ON SIXTEENTH CENTURY -- LILLY'S                          263
      EUPHUES --LAY-HELP --MR. LONGFELLOW-- LETTERS ON EMIGRATION
      AND COLONIZATION --ON MILITARY EDUCATION -- NEWMAN'S DREAM
      OF ST. GERONTIUS -- SANDHURST-- COMTISM -- SIR HENRY TAYLOR ON
      CRIME AND ITS PUNISHMENT -- LETTER FROM MR. DUNN -- PROPOSED
     VISIT TO WEST INDIES -- ICE ACTION IN SCOTLAND --LETTER FROM
      REV. WILLIAM HARRISON

CHAPTER XXVI.

1869--1870.

                                                       AGED 50 TO 51.                    289

RESIGNATION OF PROFESSORSHIP -- WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE QUESTION --
     LETTERS TO MR. MAURICE, JOHN STUART MILL, DR. CARPENTER,
      MR. LIONEL TOLLEMACHE-- CANONRY OF CHESTER-- SOCIAL SCIENCE
      MEETING AT BRISTOL -- LETTER FROM DR. E. BLACKWELL -- MEDICAL
     EDUCATION FOR WOMEN-- WEST INDIAN VOYAGE --LETTERS FROM
      TRINIDAD-- RETURN HOME--EVERSLEY A CHANGED PLACE-- FLYING
      COLUMNS-- HEATH FIRES-- THE BRAMO SOMAJ-- LETTERS TO SIR C.
      BUNBURY --MR. W. H. CALLCOTT-- FIRST RESIDENCE AT CHESTER --
      BOTANICAL CLASS-- FIELD LECTURES-- HUMAN SOOT-- WOMEN'S SUF
      FRAGE--LETTERS ON BOTANY-- FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR-- WALLACE ON
      NATURAL SELECTION -- MATTHEW ARNOLD AND HELLENISM-- BABEL
      AND ASSYRIAN CITIES

                                               Contents.                                  ix

                   CHAPTER XXVII.

                                               1871.

                                               Aged 52.

Lecture on "The Theology of the Future" at Sion College- PASS
      Distribution of Plants-- Expeditions of the Chester Natural
Science Society--Lectures on Town Geology-- A Lump of Coal

--Thrift Distribution-- La pbtitb Culture-- The Training of

Landlords-- The French Peasantry -- Peasant Proprietors-- Race
Week at Chester --Letters on Betting --Camp at Bramshill --
The Prince of Wales in Eversley -- Prince of Wales's Illness
                   on Loyalty                  Sanitary Science-- Lecture  to Royal
A--rSteirlmleorny    Officers  and             Woolwich -- Letter from     Colonel

                               at

·Strange, R.A                                                                             343

                   CHAPTER XXVIII.

                                               1872.

                                               Aged 53.

Opening of Chester Cathedral Nave-- Deaths of Mr. Maurice and
Norman McLeod--Letters to                      Max Muller-- Mrs.
H. V. -- Mrs. Taylor --Dean                                       Luard-- Mrs.
                                               Goulburn -- Notes  on Modern
Hymnology--Lecture at Birmingham and its Results-- Lecture
on Heroism at Chester -- A Poem -- Correspondence on the
Athanasian Creed -- Letter from Dr. Karl Schulze . . .
                                                                                          377

                   CHAPTER XXIX.

                                               1873-1874.

                               Aged 54 to 55.

Harrow-on-the-Hill-- Canonry of Westminster--His Son's Return
-- His Mother's Death -- Parting from Chester -- Congratula
tions--Sermon and Letters on Temperance-- Preaching in
Westminster Abbey --Voyage to America -- Eastern Cities and
                   PSelaminitse--VCaanllaedya  --Niagara  -- The    Prairie -- Salt Lake
                                                and Big   Trees   -- San Francisco--
Western

IllCity --Yo
...Return Home-- Letter from John G. Whittier
  vol. 11.
ness--Rocky Mountains and Colorado Springs-- Last Poem-

                                                                  .        i              403

x Contents.

                CHAPTER XXX.

                  1874--5.
                Aged 55.

Return from America --Work at Eversley -- Illness at Westminster PAGtf-
-- New Anxiety -- Last Sermons     in  the Abbey -- Leaves the
Cloisters for Ever -- Last Return  to  Eversley --The Valley ok
the Shadow of Death -- Last Illness and Departure -- His
ISuriai. Sermons at Chester, Eversley, and Westminster-- Me
morials-- Letters of Sympathy -- The Victory of Life over
Death and Time
                                                                 447

.....Steel Engraving of Bust, by Woolner

Fac Simii.e of the Oricinal Manuscript of the Three Fishers
The Study Window, Eversley Rectory

....Charles Kingsley's Grave, Eversley Churchyard
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                           Frontispiece.

                                                              page 60

                                                                        284
                                                                          47^

                 CHAPTER XVI.

The Father in his Home -- An Atmosphere of Jov -- The Out-door
     Nursery-- Life on the Mount-- Fear and Falsehood-- The Training
     of Love-- Favourites and Friends in the House, in the Stable,
      and on the Lawn.

      vol. II.

I" COME to me, O ye children !

     For hear you at your play,
  And the questions which have vexed me

      Have vanished quite away.

  Ye open the Eastern windows,
     That look towards the sun,

  Where thoughts are singing swallows,
     And the brooks of Morning run.

  In your hearts are the birds and the sunshine,
     In your thoughts the brooklets flow ;

  But in mine is the wind of autumn,
     And the first fall of the snow.

 IfAh ! what would the world be to us,

          the children were no more ?
  We should dread the desert behind us

      Worse than the dark before.

Come to me, O ye children !
   And whisper in my ear,

What the birds and the wind are singing

   In your sunny atmosphere.

For what are all our contrivings,
   And the wisdom of our books,

When compared with your caresses,
   And the gladness of your looks ?

Ye are better than all the ballads
   That ever were sung or said ;

For ye are living poems,
   And all the rest are dead ! "

                                    LONGFELLOW.

    CHARLES KINGSLEY:

HIS LETTERS AND MEMORIES OF HIS LIFE.

                  CHAPTER XVI.

   "  DCohceterirnfeulnoef sEsducoartiojony,o' u"snisessth,"e  said Jean Paul, in his 'Levana, or
                                                               heaven under which everything but
the

poison thrives. All new-born creatures require warmth, and what then

is warmth to the human chicken but happiness ? One has but to give

them play-room by taking away what may be painful, and their powers

shoot up of themselves. The joyousness of children ! Should they have
Ianything else ?
                  can endure a melancholy man, but not a melancholy

child!"*

   AND with this atmosphere of joyousness the parents tried to

surround the children at the Rectory, and that not only as a
means of present enjoyment, but as a tonic to strengthen the
young creatures to meet the inevitable trials of the future.
We must pause a moment in the midst of the father's work

and letters ; we have seen him in his church and parish,

and now must see him in his home, where his children had
the best of everything ; the sunniest and largest rooms indoors,

and because the Rectory was on low ground, --the churchyard

six feet above the living rooms, and the ground sloping

upwards on three sides,--he built them a hut for an outdoor

nursery, on the " Mount," where they kept books, toys, and tea-

things, spending long happy days on the highest and loveliest
point of moorland in the glebe, a real bit of primaeval forest ;
and there he would join them when his parish work was done,
bringing them some fresh treasure picked up in his walk, a

                  * " Levana, or the Doctrine of Education,'' chap. 2.

4 Charies Kingsley.

choice wild flower or fern, or rare beetle, sometimes a lizard or
a field-mouse ; ever waking up their sense of wonder, calling
out their powers of observation, and teaching them lessons
out of God's great green book, without their knowing they were

learning.

   And then the Sundays, the hardest day of the week to him,
were bright to the children, who began the day with decking the
graves in the dear churchyard, an example which the poor people
learnt to follow, so that before Morning Service it looked like
a flower garden ; and when his day's work was done, however
weary he might be, there was always the Sunday walk, a stroll
on the moor, and some fresh object of natural beauty pointed
out at every step. Indoors, the Sunday picture books were
brought out. Each child had its own, and chose its subject for
the father to draw, either some Bible story, or bird, beast, or
flower mentioned in Scripture. Happy Sundays ! never asso
ciated with gloom or restrictions, but with God's works as well
as His word, and with sermons that never wearied.

    Punishment was a word little known in his house. Corporal
punishment was never allowed. His own childish experience
of the sense of degradation and unhealthy fear it produced,
of the antagonism it called out between a child and its parents,

a pupil and its teachers, gave him a horror of it. It had other

evils, too, he considered, besides degrading both parties con

cerned. "More than half the lying of children," he said, "is, I

believe, the result of fear, and the fear of punishment." On
these grounds he made it a rule (from which he never de
parted,) not to take a child, suspected of a fault, at un
awares, by sudden question or hasty accusation, the stronger
thus taking an unfair advantage of the weaker and defence
less creature, who, in the mere confusion of the moment,
might be tempted to deny or equivocate. " Do we not pray
daily, ' Lord, confound me not,' and shall we dare to confound
our own children by sudden accusation, suspicious anger, making
them give evidence against themselves, when we don't allow a
criminal to do that in a court of law ? The finer the nature the
more easily is it confounded, whether it be of child, dog, or
horse. It breaks all confidence between parent and child."

                    The Father in his Home.                                                        5

" Do not train a child," he said to a friend, "as men train a horse,

Ifby letting anger and punishment be the first announcement of
his having sinned.     you do, you induce two bad habits ; first,

the boy regards his parent with a kind of blind dread, as a being

who may be offended by actions which to him are innocent, and

whose wrath he expects to fall upon him any moment in his
most pure and unselfish happiness. Alas ! for such a childhood !

Elfins \iym ! Next, and worst still, the boy learns not to fear

sin, but the punishment of and thus he learns to lie. At every
it
         it

                               it

                                                 a it,
first fault, and offence too, teach him the principle which makes
  sinful --illustrate                                             pa"rabHlee--waansdctahreefnu,l,
again will be with     by                               familiar  !  a                              he sins
                       his                            eyes open                                    too, not
                                                                                if
to confuse or "confound" his children by multiplicity of

small rules. Certain broad, distinct laws of conduct were laid
down. "It
           is  difficult enough to keep the Ten Command

ments," he would say, "without making an eleventh in every

direction." This, combined with his equable rule, gave them a

sense of utter confidence and perfect freedom with him. They

knew what they were about and where to find him, for he had
no " moods " with them, and they had, he could be pitiful and
a

                           if
patient.

   Like brave man as he was, he kept his feelings of depression,
and those dark hours of wrestling with doubt and disappoint

ment and anxiety, which must come to every thinking, feeling
human being, within the sanctuary of his own heart, unveiled only
to one on earth, and to his Father in Heaven. And when he came
out of his study, and met his children and guests at breakfast,

he would greet them with bright courtesy and that cheerful

disengaged temper acquired by strict self-discipline, which

enabled him to enter into all their interests, and the joy and
playfulness of the moment. The family gatherings were the
brightest hours in the day, lit up as they were with his marvel
lous humour. " wonder," he would say, " there so much

laughing in any other home in England as in ours." He
a

          I
                                                if

                                                                                       is
became light-hearted boy once more in the presence of his
children, and still more remarkably so in that of his aged mother,

when he saw her face clouded with depression during her later
years, which were spent under his roof. He brought sunshine

6 Charles K1ngsley,

into her room whenever he entered                           as well as the strong
                    is
                       a

                               I

                                                       it,
spiritual consolation which she needed, and received in his daily

ministrations by her bedside morning and evening.

  The griefs of children were to him most piteous. " A child

over a broken toy       sight cannot bear," and when nursery

griefs and broken toys were taken to the study, he was never too

busy to mend the toy and dry the tears. He held with Jean Paul
Richter again, that children have their "days and hours of rain,"
days when "the child's quicksilver" falls rapidly before the
storms and cold weather of circumstances, and " parents should

not consider or take much notice, either for anxiety or sermons,"                   *

lightly passing over these variations of temperature, except
where they are symptoms of coming illness. And here his
knowledge of physiology and that delicate organization of brain,

which had given him many sad experience in his own child
                              a

hood, made him keen to watch and detect such symptoms.

Weariness at lessons, and sudden fits of temper or obstinacy, he
springdetected, as often
                                  from physical causes, and not to be

treated hastily as moral, far less spiritual delinquencies, being

merely, perhaps, phases of depression, which pass over with

change of occupation, air and scene, and the temporary cessation

of all brain work.

    Justice and mercy, and that rigid self-control, which kept
him from speaking hasty word or harbouring mean suspicion,
a
      a
                                                            a
combined with divine tenderness, were his governing principles

in all his home relationships. It has been said of Sir William

Napier's expression of countenance, in words that perfectly
describe Charles Kingsley, " This tenderness was never so

marked as when he was looking at or talking with little children.

At such times the expression which came over his face was

wonderfully beautiful and touching. Towards these little

creatures he had an eager way of stretching out his hands, as                       if

to touch them, but with hesitation arising from the evidenta
dread of handling them too roughly. The same sort of feeling,a

too, he manifested in minor degree, towards small animals,

little dogs, kittens and birds."  f

* " Levana," chap.  8.               t                      Life of Sir W. Napier.

                       Father and Son.       7

   And he respected as well as loved his children, from the early
days when " Heaven lay about them in their infancy," and he
hung with reverent and yet passionate wonder over the baby in
its cradle, to grown-up years when he looked upon them as friends
and equals. Home was to them so real a thing that it seemed

in a way as if it must be eternal. And when his eldest son, in

America, heard of the father's death, and of another which then
seemed imminent, and foresaw the break up of the home, he stood
as one astonished, only to say, in the bitterness of his soul :

  I" feel as if a huge ship had broken up piece by piece, plank by

....plank, and we children were left clinging to one strong spar alone -- God !
           Ah, how many shoals and quicksands of life he piloted me
through, by his wonderful love, knowledge, and endurance --that great

....father of ours, the dust of whose shoes we are not worthy to kiss."

   Nearly two years have passed since that bitter day, and his

son, now at home once more, adds his memories to the many in
this book of memories.

   " ' Perfect love casteth out all fear,' was the motto on which my father
based his theory of bringing up his children ; and this theory he put in

practice from their babyhood till when he left them as men and women.

From this, and from the interest he took in all their pursuits, their plea
sures, trials, and even the petty details of their everyday life, there sprang
up a ' friendship ' between father and children that increased in intensity

and depth with years.
" To speak for myself, and yet I know full well I speak for all, he
Iwas the best friend --the only true friend
                                             ever had. At once he
was the most fatherly and the most unfatherly of fathers--fatherly in

that he was our intimate friend, and our self-constituted adviser; un

fatherly in that our feeling for him lacked that fear and restraint that
make boys call their father ' the governor.'

  I" remember him as essentially the same to all of us always : utterly

unchanged and unchanging since the time that he used to draw Sunday

pictures for us to the time when he treated us as men and women of

the world.

  " Ours was the only household I ever saw in which there was no
favouritism. It seemed as if in each of our different characters he took

an equal pride, while he fully recognised their different traits of good or
evil j for, instead of having one code of social, moral, and physical laws

8 Charles Kingsley.

laid down for one and all of us, each child became a separate study for

him; and its little 'diseases au moral,' as he called them, were treated

                            to   each different temperament.
                            all  others in which he opened out
Idiff"erTehnetlytimacecoarbdoinvge                                           to
                                                                 his  heart      us,

think, was walking over on Sunday evenings to the services held in the

little school-room at Bramshill.

  I" can see him now, on one of those many summer evenings, as he

strode out of the back garden-gate with a sorrowful ' No ! go home,
Sweep !' to the retriever that had followed us stealthily down the walk,

and who now stood with an ear cocked and one paw up, hoping against
Ihope, that he might be allowed to come on.
                                                       can feel him striding by
me in the narrow path, while from the bright sky and the look of the

country he drank in nature, till his eye lit up, his chest expanded, his
Istep grew elastic, and he was a boy again with me.
                                                                 can hear him tell

me, at the bottom of the field, of a heavy fall out hunting over the fence

into the meadow, and his ringing laugh at the recollection of his own
mishap. His cheery ' Good afternoon ' to the cottager at the corner ;

the ' Well-done, boy,' and grim smile of approval, with which he greeted

a jump over the gate at the top of the hill, on which he sits a moment

to take in the long sweeps of purple heather running down to the yellow
corn land--the brown roof of the Rectory bursting up among its trees--
the long flats of the little valley, with its greens and cricketers. ' For
cricket,' he used to say, ' is better than beer, and the poor lads don't get

a chance to play on week-day : but remember you do.'

   " And then the walk on over the moor, chatting gaily of the fox's earth

hard by, the green tiger-beetle that whirred from under our feet, the night

jar (goatsucker) that fluttered up from a sandy place in the path, and

swooped madly away among the fir trees, while ever and anon some thought

would strike a deeper chord, and a few words would put something that

mayhap had been an old stumbling block, into an entirely new and

true   light.   deepest     teaching,  his strongest  influence  was, in a way, of the

   "  All his

negative kind, inasmuch as there were no long lectures, no pithy argu

ments, but in his own life he showed, spoke, and lived his doctrines, so

that his utter unselfishness, his genial tenderness towards their mother

and themselves, gave the children an example that could not be past by

unn"oTtihceed,    however   unworthily followed.       of us was reverence       and
                only thing    that he really required

respect for people older than ourselves, which was also one of the most

strongly marked traits in his own character, and one which made him

entirely ignore himself and his own superiority, in most cases, in speak
ing to men older than he was.

               Love of all God's Creatures.                                                          9

" This required reverence, however, on our part, never created any

          of restraint when with him    ; too true  a friendship   existed, and
          the brightest picture of the  past that     look back
Ifeeling                                                          to now --that

perhaps

we can all look back to is-- not the eager look of delight with which he
used to hail any of our little successes -- not any special case of approval,

but it is the drawing-room at Eversley in the evenings when we were all

at home and by ourselves. There he sat, with one hand in mother's, for

getting his own hard work and worry in leading our fun and frolic, with

a kindly smile on his lips, and a loving light in that bright grey eye that

made us feel that, in the broadest sense of the word, he was our

father."

   " To see him with you and the children," said a friend, " was to know
what the man was. I made that remark when the children were young,

and how tenfold more was this the case when they grew up around
him."

   But to speak of his home without mentioning his love of
animals would be to leave the picture incomplete. His dog and

his horse were his friends, and they knew and understood his
voice and eye. He was perfect horseman, and never lost his
               if

                   a it
                                    a

                                                is
                                                                 it,

                                                                                  it

                                                                     if

                                                                                   it
temper with his horse, talking to and reasoning with                                                 shied

or bolted, as  had been a rational being, knowing that, from

the fine organization of the animal, a horse, like a child, will get

confused by panic fear, which only increased by punishment.
His dog Dandy, fine Scotch terrier, was his companion in all his

parish walks, attended at the cottage lectures and school lessons,
and was his and the children's friend for thirteen years. He lies

buried under the great fir trees on the Rectory lawn, with this
inscription on his gravestone, " Fideli Fideles," and close by
" Sweep," magnificent black retriever, and "Victor," favourite
          aa
                                                                 a;

                                                                                             a
                                                                                                  a
Teckel, given to him by the Queen, with which he sat up during
the two last suffering nights of the little creature's life. Cats,

too, were continual delight to him the stable had always

its white cat, and the house its black or tabby, and he never
tired of watching their graceful movements. His love of animals

was strengthened by his belief in their future state -- belief

which he held in common with John Wesley, and many other
remarkable men. On the lawn dwelt family of natter jacks

(running toads), who lived on from year to year in the same

1O Charles Kingsley.

hole in the green bank, which the scythe was never allowed
to approach. He had two little friends in a pair of sand wasps,
who lived in a crack of the window in his dressing-room, one
of which he had saved from drowning in a hand-basin, taking
it tenderly out into the sunshine to dry ; and every spring he
would look out eagerly for them or their children, who came
out of, or returned to the same crack. The little fly-catcher,
who built its nest every year under his bedroom window, was
a constant joy to him. He had also a favourite slow-worm in
the churchyard which his parishioners were warned not to kill,
from the mistaken idea prevalent in Eversley that slow-worms

were poisonous. All these tastes he encouraged in his children,

teaching them to love and handle gently without disgust all
living things, toads, frogs, beetles, as works and wonders from
the hand of a Living God. His guests were surprised one
morning at breakfast when his little girl ran up to the open
window of the dining-room holding a long repulsive-look
ing worm in her hand. " Oh ! daddy, look at this delightful
worm." He had but one aversion which he could never
conquer -- to a spider, and it was of himself he spoke in ' Glaucus,'
after saying " that every one seems to have his antipathic

animal ;-- I know one bred from his childhood to zoology

by land and sea, and bold in asserting, and honest in feeling
that all without exception is beautiful, who yet cannot, after
handling, and petting, and examining all day long every un
couth and venomous beast, avoid a paroxysm of horror at the
sight of the common house-spider?"

    But, after all, a bird, he often said, was to him the most

wonderful of God's creations ; he watched for the arrival of the
birds of passage every spring with a strange longing, and seemed
less restless after the swallow had appeared at Eversley. His
eyes would fill with tears at each fresh arrival, and again each
autumn as he grieved over their departure. He knew their every
note, and was never tired of watching their character and habits.

   I" know not how much variety of character there may be between

birds of the same species ; but between species and species the variety

is endless, and is shown, as I fondly believe -- in the difference of their

A Charm of Birds.  11

notes. Each has its own speech, inarticulate, expressing not thought,
but hereditary feeling; save a few birds, who, like those little dumb

darlings, the spotted fly-catchers, seem to have absolutely nothing to
say, and, accordingly, have the wit to hold their tongues, and devote
the whole of their small intellect to sitting on the iron rails, flitting off

....them a yard or two to catch a butterfly in air, and flitting back with it

to the nest."

   " Listen to the chorus of birds in every sequestered woodland on a
bright forenoon in June. As you try to disentangle the medley of
sounds, the first perhaps that will strike your ear will be the loud, harsh,
monotonous, flippant song of the chaffinch ; and the metallic clinking
of two or three sorts of titmice. But above the tree-tops, rising, hover
ing, sinking, the woodlark is fluting, tender and low. Above the
pasture outside the skylark sings -- as he alone can sing ; and close by,
from the hollies, rings out the blackbird's tenor-- rollicking, audacious,
humorous, all but articulate. From the tree above rises the treble of
the thrush, pure as the song of angels : more pure, perhaps, in tone,
though neither so varied nor so rich as the song of the nightingale. And
there in the next holly, is the nightingale himself; now croaking like a
frog ; now talking aside to his wife on the nest below ; and now burst
ing out into that song, or cycle of songs, in which if any man finds
sorrow, he himself surely finds none."

    Again,

   " What variety of character, as well as variety of motion, may be
distinguished by the practised ear in 'a charm of birds' (to use the old
Southern phrase), from the wild cry of the missel-thrush, ringing from
afar in the first bright days of March, a passage of one or two bars
repeated three or four times, and then another and another, clear and
sweet, and yet defiant -- for the great 'storm-cock' loves to sing when
rain and wind is coming on, and faces the elements as boldly as he
faces hawk and crow -- down to the delicate warble of the wren, who
slips out of his hole in the brown bank, where he has huddled through
the frost with wife and children, all folded in each other's arms, like

human beings, for the sake of warmth

   "Yet even he, sitting at his house door in the low sunlight, says

grace for all mercies (as a little child once worded it), in a song so
rapid, so shrill, so loud, and yet so delicately modulated, that you
wonder at the amount of soul within that tiny body ; and then stops

suddenly, as a child who has said its lesson, gives a self-satisfied flirt of
his tail, and goes in again to sleep

12 Charles Kingsley.

   "Of old, said St. Guthlac in Crowland, as the birds sat upon his knee,

' He who leads his life according to the will of God, to him the wild
birds draw more near.' St. Francis, too --he called the birds his brothers.
Perfectly sure that he himself was a spiritual being, he thought it at

least possible that birds might be spiritual beings likewise, incarnate
like himself in mortal flesh, and saw no degradation in claiming kindred
lovingly with creatures so beautiful, so wonderful, who (as he fancied in
his old-fashioned way) praised God in the forest, even as angels did in
heaven."*

                             * A Charm of Birds. Prose Idylls.

CHAPTER XVII.

1857-

AGED 38.

"Two YEARS AGO"-- THE CROWDED CHURCH-- UNQUIET SUNDAYS -- LETTERS

TO MR. BULLAR-- REV. PETER WOOD-- DR. RIGG--MR. TOM HUGHES'

PIETISTS AND iviias -- LETTER FROM A NAVAL CHAPLAIN -- LECTURE   AT
BRISTOL --Mark ix. 44 --INDIAN MUTINY-- TEMPORARY FAILURE OF    AS
SOCIATIONS --THE ROMANCE OF REAL LIFE.

   " There is a mean curiosity, as of a child opening a forbidden door, or a servant

prying into his master's business ;--and a noble curiosity, questioning in the front of
danger, the source of the great river beyond the sand, -- the place of the great con
tinents beyond the sea ; a nobler curiosity still, which questions of the source of the
River of Life, and of the space of the Continent of Heaven, things which the Angels
desire to look into." -- Ruskin.

"I Iday,  boundless faith in 'time and light.' I shall see what is the
 have                                                                   t"ruth some
and if     do not some one else will, which is far more important

          C. K.

                    CHAPTER XVII.

   The year 1857 opened brightly on Charles Kingsley, for it

found him, for the first time for three years, in his own home for

the winter at Eversley, with his wife and his three children.

I" am writing nothing now ; but taking breath, and working in the
Iparish-- never better than am at present ; with many blessings, and,
Iawful confession for mortal man, no sorrows !
                                                      sometimes think there
Imust be terrible arrears of sorrow to be paid off by me -- that may be
                                                   "
as other men are !  God  help  me  in  that  day
                                                  !

He writes in January to his friend Mr. Hughes: --

 ... I"

the
The book is done    (' Two Years Ago')       ; the  last  proof going   through
                    know you will like        it.            am better  off now
press now, and I
Ithan
             have been for years ! God be thanked, and God grant, too,
Ithat may not require to be taken down by some terrible trouble. I
I If Ioften fancy shall be.
                         I am, shall deserve as much as any man
             I

                        a

                                       I

                                        I
                                                                      a it,

                                                                                                                           .

                                                           ." I
who ever lived. say so now-- justifying God beforehand, lest should

not have faith and patience enough to justify Him when the punishment
comes. . . . Many thanks for your wholesome letter -- the rightest letter

  have had for many day. It has taught me great deal, dear old
I

          ;
man and you are nearer to God than am, see well. .

   The " terrible trouble " came,--but not in the shape of personal
grief or domestic affliction and, till the awful news from India
burst upon England, all went well. He was made this year
Fellow of the Linnean Society, which had been one of the
ambitions of his life. Two visits from his dear friend Max

Miiller (soon to be more nearly related to him), refreshed his
spirit. Mr. Chadwick, with whose kind assistance he was hard

at work on sanitary and educational subjects, came to discuss
these questions with him, and strange medley of visitors pro
                         ;

                                                                                               a

                                   a

1 6 Charles Kingsley.

posed themselves, and were made welcome, at the Rectory. One
day, a Unitarian minister, -- clergymen of the Church of Eng

land, Dissenters, Americans --all came on missions of their own,

and opened their hearts to him as they could to no other man.
And on the lawn, under the old fir trees on long summer days,
he and his guests discussed all things in heaven and earth.

   Sunday after Sunday he had the keen delight of seeing
Crimean officers from Aldershot and Sandhurst in his congrega
tion. Among others one who had been dangerously wounded in
the Redan, at Sevastopol, and who, when lying between life and
death at Scutari had read " Yeast," and determined, if he ever
came back alive, " to go and hear the clergyman preach who could
give such a picture of a hunting scene as the one in the opening
chapter." One Sunday he came --while still on crutches -- a
stranger to Mr. Kingsley, but soon to become a friend, a con
stant attendant at church, and always a welcome guest at the

Rectory early Sunday dinner.
   Each day the post brought some letter either of thanks for

his books or asking counsel. He preached a series of sermons
on the Creed, and one, by request of a member of the congrega
tion who wrote anonymously, on the Intermediate and Future
State, when he ventured to speak more plainly than he had yet
done in the pulpit on the subject so near his heart. The little
church was often full of strangers, and one Sunday, when twelve
carriages were standing in and outside the stable-yard, the sexton
was heard to say, he could not think why there was "such
flitting to and fro to our church on Sundays." Having heard the
same preaching for fifteen years himself, he could not tell what
the wonder of it was. To the rector this notoriety was simply

painful : " I cannot bear having my place turned into a fair on

Sundays, and all this talking after church." So to avoid the
greetings of acquaintances and the observation of strangers in
the churchyard, he had a little back gate made into his garden,
and escaped after service through the vestry door. His whole
soul and energy were thrown so intensely into the services
of his church, that when they were over he found quiet essen
tial to help him to calm down from the excitement of his own

earnestness.

                             Self-denial.                             17

   In the summer the news of the Indian mutiny came, which

absorbed and depressed him ; and some friends, knowing how
hard-worked and sad he was, invited him to go with them to the
Manchester Exhibition, then open, with all its glorious pictures:
but when the day came he could not make up his mind to leave
a poor sick man, who he felt would miss his daily visits. With
his keen love of art, it cost him a pang to give up the sight
of such a collection of pictures as might never again come
together in England during his lifetime ; but he said he could

not have enjoyed them while a parishioner was counting on
seeing him. This trifling incident is mentioned to show how
thorough and unselfish he was in his parish work, which in this
case could so easily have been passed over for three days to any

neighbouring clergyman.
   He seldom went to London ; and to a friend who pressed him

to come up and hear one of his own songs finely sung there, he

refused. " I love home and green fields more and more, and

never lust either after Babylon or the Continent . . ."

                             TO JOHN BULLAR, Esq.

                                                                         Eversley, Jan. 23, 1857.
    " Of such atoms is life made up ! and so cautious ought one to be,

lest one wrong at once one's neighbour and one's self. The thing you

speak of is clean gone from my mind, and sounds like a fiction out of
a book. All I do recollect
                             that when saw you first was afraid of
                             is,                   ;

                              I                      II
                                 I

                                         I
you. For you must know that am--for reasons which can't explain
to myself--afraid of men whom
                               suspect to be experienced, sober,

    self-possessed people above all, afraid of lawyers (Mr. Bullar was
                         ;;
(I a   lawyer in London) and there was reverend look about you whicha
    made me shy. You must know, too, that the fearful curse of stam

    mering, now, thank God, all but gone, which has been my misery from

    childhood, has always made me avoid an introduction to men, to whom

      could see by one mesmeric glance) should inevitably stammer.
      I

                  it
                       is

                             a

                         I
                                 I

                                                 I
                                                                                                                        !
                                                        I
                                                            I
                                                                     II
    suppose that saw that in your case, and was afraid of venturing near

    you. However, that       sorrow of the past, thank God and entreat

    you, forgive and forget any rudeness of mine. Little did know then
                             was, for forget) what manner of man you were,
    and there (wherever
    and how strangely your inner heart and mine answered each other.

    suppose there was some divine good reason why should not then.

18 Charles Kingsley.

If II have neglected answering your notes, forgive me.     have been care
less ! but I have been harried, living my double life of writing and parish
Iwork, and were it not for my guardian angel of a wife should never
Iwrite an answer to a letter though walk about with the answer in my

head for a week. But now the weary book is done ; have patience with
Ime, and try me again.
                               have been reading Watson's notions on brain
disease. A clear-headed, wise, genial man of science he seems."

                                                           Jan. 27, 1857.
    "... Physiognomy, which has been a study of mine for years, gave me
Icertain opinions of * * * the first day ever saw him, which said, ' That
man and I, unless utterly changed --more changed, perhaps, than he
.... Iever will be in this mortal body, --never can be friends. God forgive
me, if I be wrong.             But let him pass.       had rather hear from
you of supernatural and spiritual experiences. I, the most sensuous

I(not sensual) of men, have always had the strongest faith in an unseen
world, of which never had a token, save by faith                               No one

wo"ulYd omurorteheogrlaydloyf  and reverently    hear  and learn than I.       as  your
                               speaking is all  true.  My defect was the same

friend's, but mine came from an under jaw contracted by calomel, and

nerves ruined by croup and brain fever in childhood. That prevented

my opening my mouth ; that gave me a wrong use of the diaphragm

Imuscles, till got to speak inspiring, and never to fully inflate my

Ilungs ; and that brought on the last and worst (yet most easily cured)

spasm of the tongue. All the while, could speak, not only plain

but stentorially, while boxing, rowing, hunting, skating, and doing any

thing which compelled deep inspirations. . . .

   " Matthew xxii. 30, has been to me always a comfort. I am so well
Iand really married on earth, that should be exceedingly sorry to be
married again in heaven ; and it would be very needless. All I can

say do not love my wife, body and soul, as well there as dois,
                                                           I
      it iIf                                                     I
here, then there neither resurrection of my body nor of my soul, but
                 I is
of some other, and shall not be  I.             Therefore, whatsoever the passage

means, can't mean what monks make it. Ten years ago asked in'

I'Yeast' the question which my favourite old monk legends (from which
    have learnt volumes) forced on me, Who told you that the angelic

life was single  and have found no answer yet. . .     ."
                 ?'

                        I

                                                           Feb.  8,I           1857.

    " tried hard to get to you during forty-eight hours in London, but
    I
         I
                            I
failed.       enjoy your letters very much, indeed more than                       dare

confess to myself. For am the strangest jumble of superstition and

                  Mysticism and Materialism.                                          19

of a reverence for scientific induction which forbids me (simply for
                                                  of things in which I see no
want of certain facts)   to believe heaps
d priori impossibility.                           all Jung Sailing's pneumato-
                         I want to believe
logy, all Elliotson's mesmerism. Yea, I would gladly believe in deevs
and peris, elves and fairies, if I could. I would even gladly believe half
of those monk and nun miracles and visions with which I have gorged

myself more than perhaps most men in England, and which (as psycho

Ilogical and physiological studies) have been invaluable to me -- but

can't. What is a poor wretch to do, who, disbelieving the existence of

matter far more firmly than Bishop Berkeley, is accessible to no hints

from anything but matter ? A mystic in theory, and an ultra-materialist
in practice -- who, if I saw a ghost to-morrow, should chat quietly

with        and take out pen, ink, and paper to get an exact description
I
     I it,of the phenomenon on the spot, what shall do              fear sometimes
                                                     ?I
that        shall end by desperate lunge into one extreme or the other.?
                  is a                                        I
   should have done so long ago (for this battle has gone on in
me since childhood), had not seen something of a compromise inI

what Maurice has taught me.                                 What does God require
   " But after all, what speculation to practice

of us, but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with Him                   ?

The longer live this seems to me more important, and all other quesI

tions less so. If we can but live the simple right life --

                  '      Do the work that's nearest,
                            Though it's dull at whiles
                                                      '
                         Helping, when we meet them,     ;
                            Lame dogs over stiles --
                                                  ;

why then we shall be better than ghosts for ghost but soul, and
we are soul and body too and there have the advantage, for aught we
know and not, what matter "
                                               ;      a     is
                                                                        a

      ;                     ;
                                         ?
              if

                                                                March 19, 1857.

" Many thanks for your favourable opinion of the book Two Years
                                                      a

                                                          I

                                                                   is,
                                                                          ('
Ago') but fear you take Tom Thurnall for better man than he was,
      ;
        ;

           I
and must beg you not to pare my man to suit your own favourable con

ception but consider that that the sort of man want to draw, and
                            I
you must take him as you find him. My experience                that men of his
                                    is
character   (like all strong               ismen till God's grace takesfull possession
            are weak upon                                           they stand but
of them)                      one point --every thing can

that and the more they restrain themselves from prudential motives,
;

the more sudden and violent the temptation when comes.                                have
                                                            it                I

indicated as delicately as could the world-wide fact, which all know

                                                                              c

                                                                                   2

20 Charles Kingsley.

Iand all ignore ; had not done so, Thurnall would have been a mere

chimera fit only for a young lady's novel.

  " I feel deeply the change in one's imagination during the last twenty
years. As a child I never could distinguish dreams from imaginations,

imaginations from waking impressions; and was often thought to be

romancing when I was relating a real impression. In ill health from
overwork about 1 6 to 1 8, I had spectral illusions often (one as clear as

any of Nicolai's), accompanied with frightful nervous excitability, and

inability to settle to any work, though always working at something in a

fierce, desultory way. At twenty I found out tobacco. The spectres

vanished ; the power of dull application arose ; and for the first time in
Imy"
      life,  began to be master   of my own brain.  matter-of-fact  of parsons.
      Now,                        most prosaic and
             I am in general the
I cannot dream if I try. I go to my brain as to a store-house or car
penter's shop, from which I take out coolly what I want, and put it into
Ithe best shape can. The German mode of thought, and feeling, and

writing, such as you find in Jean Paul or Novalis, lies behind me,
as 'boy's love' belonging to an era 'when the spirits of the prophets'
were not yet ' subject to the prophets.' Whether this be right or wrong,

I know not ; but I confess the fact ;--and if we ever get a week to
Igether, fear that you will think me a most dull and frivolous fellow,

who cares for nothing but to romp with your children, and pick flowers,

and   study the weather usque ad nauseam.   us.  Your work is utterly of the
      But here lies the difference between
   "

head ; and you go for amusement to fancy, to imagination, to meta-

physic My work, whether parish or writing, lies just in the sphere

I Iwherein you play ; and if played in that sphere too, should go mad,
or soften my brain, like poor Southey. So when I play, I think about

nothing ; ride, fish, chat with the farmers over the crops, examine beetles

Iand worms, and forget that I have a heart as much as I can. But

wo"n'tCabnoreyoyuounomt ocroemeabdoouwt nmyasnedlf.see me here ? There is always a bed
at your service, and in a week or two Mrs. Kingsley will be well enough
to receive you -- which she longs much to do."

             TO REV. PETER L. H. WOOD.

                                                    Eversley, April 5, 1857.

I" look forward to seeing you with great delight, as a renewing of
Ithe days of my youth, at least of the better element of them, for trust
you will find me a better and calmer, if not a wiser man than you knew
Ime in old times, though just as great a boy as ever.
                                                       sent your mes-

                Natural History a Safeguard.                                                     21

Isage about a government man on to Charles Grenfell, from whom,

suppose, it will go straight to Lord Panmure; but the time runs so

Ishort that fear that (as in North Hants) a government candidate has

no chance. However, the ministry will have a majority ' big enough

to make England lop-sided,' and what can we want more ? Is there --

Ifor am boy still -- any trout-fishing to be gotten near you ? There

ought to be a clear brook somewhere in your chalk valleys, with plenty

Ifof dear little silver monarchs, who are my joy and comfort every spring.
    there is such, and you could get me a few hours on                      I         would be a
                                                                                it,
great treat, and would bring down the trusty rod, who knows all waters            it
           .
               .

               I
from the top of Snowdon and Dartmoor, down to lowland Loddon and
           ."
Kennet. .
    " will surely come by Hungerford to Devizes.
Savernake and Abury since --II                                                 have not seen

                                  was little tiny boy,
                       With heigh-ho, the wind and the rain,'
                          I I'
                                        a
and shall enjoy the drive.    suppose the Hungerford coach returns in
the morning. If get to Hungerford early, may stop there till late
           a                                                      aI           I
                                                                         '                  '
              I                                                                               a
train, and kill brace of trout. There surely good Samaritan miller
                                           is

or innkeeper, who can get me leave somewhere for which shall make    ;

interest with the coachman -- for coachmen are all-knowing, in sublunary

and local facts. Moreover, three hours on real coach will be second
                                                                  a         I
                                                                                      a
childhood in these roaring and rattling railroad days.                                shall much

enjoy being introduced to Ewart, and your geological friend. Of the

local geology of Devizes    know nought.                             am not man of chalk
                          I                                                 a

                                        a

                                   I
                                           I

                                              I
(save in reference to trouts), but man of clays, and gravels, and sands,
who wanders these moorlands till have all but exhausted their flora,

fauna, and geological features, though                            hope to stumble on fresh

wonders some day, by the aid of the microscope.

   " am bringing up my children as naturalists --my boy as both

naturalist and sportsman and then, whether he goes into the army
                       is
                           '

                                     ;
                                                               a
(Engineers), or emigrates, he will have pursuit to keep him from cards

and brandy-pawnee, horse-racing, and the pool of hell
    " My lecture
                       On the Advantages of the Study of Natural

History.'

    " remember "       (says Mr. Wood, then Rector                   of Devizes, in reference
    this visit) " his  arriving at the Rectory. He
to  I                                                                had been fishing on his
             I
way thither, and had on appropriate fishing costume. When he rang

at the door went to greet him, followed by mother and children. He

scarcely stopped to salute the parents, but at once laid down at full

22 Charles Kingsley.

length in the hall, and encouraged the young ones to romp over him,
much to their glee and delight . . . ."

                         TO REV. DR. RIGG.

                                                                         Eversley, April 5, 1857.

   " I have to thank you for an able and candid review of my writings
in the ' London Quarterly Review.' I am sorry to differ from you, but
I take this opportunity of assuring you that our differences are far fewer
than you fancy, and that you would, I think, find me less unorthodox

than you will have made your readers take me to be.
" But one statement I must energetically contradict -- that I am in
Ianywise in theology a follower of Mr. Thomas Carlyle.
                                                        have pointed

out in my works certain points on which, in past years, he has done

Igood service ; but am at a loss to conceive why my having done so
Ishould make any man think that agree with his theology. This hasty

assumption has led you to suppose that he is the ' mystic teacher ' to
Iwhom alluded in my review of Vaughan's ' Mystics,' a notion only
Iequalled in wrongness by that of some people that meant Mr. Urqu-
Ihart. It has also led you into the mistake that sympathise with his
                              If you wish to see whether I am a Pantheist
attack on Howard
or not, may I beg you to peruse pp. 243-247 of vol. iii. of 'Two Years
Ago,' on which a Baptist review well remarked, that whatever I was,
a Pantheist I was not."

"  I,  of course,  must  bow  to  the  more      Eversley, Whit-Monday, 1857.
                                             accurate knowledge of your elder

friend, concerning the Brianites. Nevertheless, as every anecdote and

Ifact which have related is true, and the unpleasant question is left --

were the good folks of            , where all these facts occurred, not
IBrianites after all, but Wesleyans ?
                                             always held them Brianites, and
I shall be very sorry to find myself mistaken.

   " As for your proposed book, as long as it was a mere review article,

I had nothing to say; but since you seem sufficiently satisfied with
Iyour work to publish it in a permanent form, must speak seriously
(privately only, for I have made a rule to answer no public attacks),

and solemnly warn you, that if you publish anything which accuses

Hare, Maurice, or me of Rationalism, you will be venting a falsehood

and a slander. I cannot believe that you have studied the Neo-Plato-

nists at first hand, or you would never dream of imputing any of their
tenets, or even tendencies, to me. You do not yet see the utter and

antipodal difference between Platonism and Neo-Platonism, and I

fear that you have got your notions on the point at second-hand from

                        Not a Pantheist.                      23

Isaac Taylor, an excellent man, but troubled with crude and hasty

theories on these points of Pantheism. Be warned in time, and study

these subjects, whatever be your conclusions, more rigidly and scientifi

cally, that you may be no longer misled yourself or mislead others by
catchwords and epithets. For he who vents against any man such

words as Rationalism, Pantheism, and Neo-Platonism, to which the

public attaches a vague horror, not caring to understand in what the

imputation consists, is doing the work of the devil, who is a liar and a

slanderer, and a sower of division between man and man, and God

will require an account of all idle words in the day of judgment. . . .

I have spoken my mind very solemnly, and neither, as you fancy, in

Iheat or haste ; and you have spoken yours calmly and courteously in
return.   fear that we shall not alter each other's opinions much, so
Ileave the matter in God's hands.
                                   shall be quite silent on any charges

which you may bring against me. My business is attack, and not
If Idefence.
I am not      cannot make myself understood the first time of speaking,

   " God  likely to do  it by any subsequent  word splitting  explanations.
          be with you,  whatsoever you write   or think."

   This correspondence led to a personal aquaintance and warm

friendship between Mr. Kingsley and Dr. Rigg, now the respected
head of the Wesleyan Training College, Horseferry Road,
London.

   In February Mr. Evan Franks, of Norwood, who was engaged

in a good work among an unfortunate class, wrote to ask him to

publish his sermons as tracts for distribution. In his answer,
Mr. Kingsley, speaking of Mr. Franks' work of mercy, says :--

" One thing in your letter strikes me.               EVERSI.EY, Feb. 8, 1857.

                                        You say how, fresh from that

noble sermon of Maurice's (in Lincoln's Inn?) you went to the desti
tute women, and were, as it were, forced to believe in the gospel of the
Isermon, by the very horror of the fact you saw.
                                                  can understand that.
In the novel I have just written,* I bring in two good people, forced,
Iby the horrors of a cholera, to believe that God is love.
                                                              merely put
Imy own experience into their mouths ; it seems have put yours also.
ISo much the better. wish much to know more of you. Such scenes
as you describe I have seen --and too many --in past years ; for my
acquaintance with ' the horrors of London ' is considerable : but it will
do my soul good --living here in pleasant country, among hearty

                        "Two Years Ago."

24 Charles Kingsley.

country folk-- to renew my acquaintance with our national shame. As
for speaking to them, poor dear creatures, I would do it gladly, only
I fear no one of the good folks engaged in the work would like what I
say-- must say -- or hold                                   "
                                                      can afford to publish
to the sermons, I must
I Ishould

   " As
                                my peace     till
                                wait, fear,

at a loss, or till the popular taste (quickened, perhaps, by some religious

Icrisis, such as seems to me not far off) creates a demand. Meanwhile,

   look upon my thoughts as most crude, merely tentative, and at best

such as any man can draw from the Bible, if he will sit down to read it
Isimply and honestly as it stands. am no prophet -- no man less ; what
few leading ideas I have, I owe to the way in which Mr. Maurice has
Itaught me to read my Bible as it stands.
                                             am delighted to hear about
Iyour work among the Crystal Palace men ; and think that, with them,

things read vivd voce, will have more effect than any tracts. The human

voice and eye give a reality to the thought, provided the voice and
Ieye be real and earnest also.
                                saw this much in the noble work which

Miss Marsh, a friend of mine, did among the navvies at the Crystal

Palace, when they were starting for the Crimea. So work on, ' getrost

und Wohlgemuth,' as the Germans say,   and  cast thy  bread  on  the waters,
for thou wilt find it after many days        "

 "... FA. 17, 1857.
              As to your being an Independent, sir; what's that to me?

provided you --as I see well you do-- do justly and love mercy, and
walk humbly with your God. I don't think you will ever find the

freedom in your communion which you would in ours -- the freest,

Ithank God, in the world : but I should be a second Ham if had no

respect for the Independents. For why ? My forefathers were Inde

pendents, and fought by Cromwell's side at Naseby and Marston Moor ;

and what is more, lost broad acres for their Puritanism. The younger
brother of an ancestor of mine was one of the original Pilgrim Fathers,

Iso I am full of old Puritan blood, though have utterly --indeed, our
Ifamily have for generations thrown off their Calvinism : yet glory in
I Ithe morale, the God-fearing valour and earnestness of the old heroes,

and trust should have believed with them had lived in their day,
for want of any better belief. But it will not do now, as you have found

already. The bed is too short and the cloak too narrow."

                                   TO MRS. GASKELL.

                                                                          ST. LEONARD'S, May 14, 1857.

   " Let me renew our long-interrupted acquaintance by complimenting
you on poor Miss Bronte's Life. You have had a delicate and a great

                                 Charlotte Bronte".                            25

work to do, and you have done it admirably. Be sure that the book

will do good. It will shame literary people into some stronger belief

that a simple, virtuous, practical home life is consistent with high imagi

native genius ; and it will shame, too, the prudery of a not over cleanly,

though carefully white-washed age, into believing that purity is now (as
in all ages till         quite compatible with       the knowledge of evil. I
                  now)   has made me ashamed                                   Eyre ' I
confess that the  book   very seldom reading         of myself.  ' Jane
hardly looked     into,                              a work of   fiction       -- yours,
indeed, and Thackeray's * are the only ones I care to open. ' Shirley '
disgusted me at the opening : and I gave up the writer and her books
with the notion that she was a person who liked coarseness. How I
Imisjudged her ! and how thankful I am that never put a word of my

misconceptions into print, or recorded my misjudgments of one who is

a whole heaven above me.
" Well have you done your work, and given us the picture of a valiant
Iwoman made perfect by sufferings.
                                                     shall now read carefully and

lovingly every word she has written, especially those poems, which

ought not to have fallen dead as they did, and which seem to be (from a

Ireview in the current Fraser), of remarkable strength and purity.

must add that Mrs. Kingsley agrees fully with Iall have said, and

bids me tell you that she is more intensely interested in the book than

in almost any which she has ever read."

                         TO TOM HUGHES, Esq.

I" Eight and thirty years old am                  EversLey, JttlU 12, 1857.
                                  this day, Tummas ; whereof twenty-

two were spent in pain, in woe, and vanitie ; and sixteen in very great
Ihappiness, such as few men deserve, and don't deserve at all. And
now I feel like old Jacob, I' with my staff passed over Jordan, and now
II am become two bands '--for why ?
                                                     actually couldn't get home

from Hastings except in two relays, what with servants, tutor, and

governess. Well, Tom, God has been very good to me; and I
I Ican't help feeding a hope that may fight a good fight yet before die,

and get something done. I've done little enough yet. The best work

ever I've done has been my plain parish work, and that I've done miser

ably ill, cowardly and idly of late, and bullying and second-hand

  I*

wife
Of  Thackeray's    "V"aInictayn  Fair" his estimate   was very high. In a      letter to his
    1850 he says,                                    ' Vanity Fair,' over and  over again,
in                               read nothing but

which fills me with delight, wonder, and humility.   would sooner have drawn
IRawdon Crawley than all the folks ever drew."

26 Charies Kingsley.

Idogmatic of old ; but perhaps shall get training enough to go into the
fight well before I die ; and if not, I trust one's not going to be idle up

there, Tom. Surely as long as there's a devil or devils, even an ass or

asses, in the universe, one will have to turn out to the reveille now

and then, wherever onea             and satisfy one's 6v/t6s rage or pluck,'
                                                                      a
                     if !
                                                                           '
                                  ??                                                    '
                                                                                                   '
which Plato averreth (for why, he'd have been wraxling man, andI is,
therefore was philosopher, and the king of 'em) to be the root of all
              not, Tom Mayn't we
virtue. Why   business, Tommy, which                    ?
   " Now to
                                                               fish.  that could go to
                                                           is         O

                                                                            I

Lambourne Monday But preach in town Sunday, and have three

good fellows a dying in my parish, so that must be at home Monday
                                                               I

afternoon. But oh you take Donnington Priory, won't immortalise
                                                                                                                           I

you in verse and prose  Oh the bliss                    !      think the boys will catch o.

                                                          I

The fish will be glutted with the fly, and attendant Naiads pitying,

holding basins under their noses mortal aldermanic they were Wed
              !a I
                                 ;a
                                                    a:
nesday here.  caught fairish lot on the Caperer, which they took as

a relish to the heavy fly but the moment they were ashore the Mayflies

came up. Oh Dover steamer in chopping sea was cleanly to                                                                               Poor
                                                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                                                  it.
carnal parties Why shouldn't they tuck while they can Mayflies

come to them at Whitsuntide, as club-feasts do to the clods, to give

them one jolly blow out in the year, and it's pleasure to look at them.a
That's why good fishing days always fall on Sundays, Tom, to give the

poor fish good day's appetite (dinner always ready), and nobody to
catch them while they're enjoying it.

   "Also make note of this. A party with doubtful h's, and commer

cial demeanour, appears on Wednesday on our little stream, and kills
            a
                      a
                            a
                                                    ;
awfully. Throws beautiful line, and catches more than have in                                                                          ;a
                                                                                                                           aI
day for this two years here fly, a little green drake, with ridiculous

tufted bright yellow wing, like nothing as ever was. Stood aghast

went home and dreamed all the spiders' webs by the stream were full of
thousands of them, the most beautiful yellow ephemerae with green pea

cock-tail heads. Oh the beauty of them and wasn't riled when
it

                                     I;
                                                                                 '
                                                 I
                                                                     I
found was all for fancy? But won't                                realoirioize,' as the Scots

parsons say, those little fellows next year, and apply them to the part

affected?"

                                                                                                     EVERSLEY, 1857.

" have often been minded to write to you about Tom Brown,' so
it

   I
             I

                          is
                                         it

                                           I
                                                         I

                                                                                                                        '
here goes.    have puffed everywhere went, but soon found how

true the adage that good wine needs no bush, for every one had read

already, and from every one, from the fine lady on her throne, to the

red-coat on his cock-horse, and the school-boy on his forrum (as our

                      Tom Brown and 0vfi6<;.                                                                                     27

Irish brethren call it), I have heard but one word, and that                               thata
                                                                                               is,
                                                                                                           it
                                                                                                               is
the jolliest book they ever read. Among knot of red-coats at the
Ifcover-side, some very fast fellow said,a
                                            a had had such book in my

                                                    '

                                                 it I

                                                              aa
                                                                               !'
boyhood, should have been better man now and more than one
          I

                     it

                                  ?a
capped his sentiment frankly. Now isn't                                     comfort to your old bones

to have written such book, and comfort to see that fellows are in
                                                                                   it,
                                                                                                     a

                                                                                                   Ia
humour to take in So far from finding men of our rank in bad

vein, or sighing over the times and prospects of the rising generation,

can't help thinking they are very teachable, humble, honest fellows, who

want to know what's right, and they don't go and do still think the
worse of themselves therefore. remark now, that with hounds, and in fast
                                      I
                                                                                sign of self-restraint.
                                         if

                                                                     is
                                                                             a
company, never hear an oath, and that, too,
          I
                                      gone out, and, good God, what blessing
                              is
Moreover, drinking                                                                 a

                                                                                                             !

                                                                                                I

have good hopes, and better of our class, than of the class below. They

are effeminate, and that makes them sensual. Pietists of all ages (George
Fox, my dear friend, among the worst), never made greater mistake
                                                                                   aa
(and they have made many), than in fancying that by keeping down                        ;

manly 8vfiis, which Plato saith       the root of all virtue, they could keep
                                      '

                                               is

                                                                         '

                                                                 is
                                                                         a
down sensuality. They were dear good old fools. However, the day

of Pietism'      gone, and Tom Brown                                        heavy stone in its grave.
I'
       '     is

        Him no get up again after that,' as the niggers say of buried obi-man.

        am trying to polish the poems but Maurice's holidays make me
                                      :

idle. Powles' school has been most successful for him he has come

home healthier and jollier than ever he was in his life, and truly a
                                                                                           is
nob"leSeblloyy.our last coat and buy
                                                                                                it

                                                                                                            ,
                                      spoon.  have spoon of huge size
                    I
                                        a
                                          I
                                                                        a
(Farlow his make).    killed forty pounds weight of pike, &c, on the

other day, at Strathfieldsaye, to the astonishment and delight of

who cut small jokes on 'a spoon at each end,' &c, but altered his note

when he saw the melancholies coming ashore, one every ten minutes, and

would try his own hand.               have killed heaps of big pike round with it.
I

            it

                      I

                         II

                                                         a
                                                                is

                                                                                    ;
                                                                                               ?

                                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                                              a
        tried in Lord Eversley's lakes on Monday, when the fish wouldn't

have even his fly. Capricious party Jaques. Next day killed seven

pounder at Hurst.     am going again to the Speaker's, for he wants his

jack killed down, and has hurt his leg so that he can't do                                 wherefore

he has sent for me. Ain't             slaved party ill-used by aristocrats, and

compelled to fish in waters where his last was eleven pounds, and where

he has had them out   of twenty-four and eighteen                           the first run  I've seen
                      thing on Friday with Garth's,
   " We had a pretty

this year. Out of the Clay Vale below Tilney Hall, pace as good as

could be, fields three acres each, fences awful, then over Hazeley Heath

to Bramshill, shoved him through after false cast, and streamer over
                                         a
                                                                          a

28 Charles Kingsley.

Hartford Bridge flat, into an unlucky earth. Time fifty-five minutes,

falls plentiful, started thirty, and came in eight, and didn't the old mare

go ? Oh, Tom, she is a comfort, even when a bank broke into a lane,

and we tumbled down, she hops up again before I'd time to fall off, and
away like a four-year old, and if you can get a horse through that clay

vale, why then you can get him ' most-wards,' leastwise so I find, for a

black region it and you ain't in the same field with the hounds,
                       a is,

                                 if

                                                                  is

                                                                                 if I
you don't know whether you are in the same parish, what with hedges,

and trees, and woods, and all supernumerary vegetations. Actually

was pounded in "taty-garden,' so awful     the amount of green stuff in

these parts. Come and see me, and take the old mare out, and

you don't break her neck, she won't break yours. Kindest remem

brances from us both to Mrs. Hughes."

                               TO LORD        .

                                                   Eversley, Junt 1857.
                                              I
                                                                                    8,
" was much pleased to see your handwriting again, and glad of the
'                                                  never saw anything of

   I
mistake which stirred you up to write to me.
....Modern Manichaeism,' save the advertisement thereof.
                                                                                        As for

the question of evil,' on which know as little as all the rest of'

mankind, agree with you on the whole. Evil, as such, has no existis,
is
                                 it I
         ;

         I
ence but men can and do resist God's will, and break the law, which

appointed for them, and so punish themselves by getting into dis

harmony with their own constitution and that of the universe just as
                                           is,
a wheel in piece of machinery punishes itself when  gets out of
        I                                      Ia
                    a                             I
gear.   may be wrong, but so seems to me. My conception of
                                                           I a it
God's Providence, meanwhile,   that He by divine irony, lovingly I;

baffling all the lawlessness and self-will of the spirits whom He has

made, and turning      ;       into means for their education, as father does

with his children. Whether they take the lesson which He offers,it

depends on them but the chances would seem,        should have said,

to be in favour of God's proving too good an instructor to lose
His pupils. The world thinks differently, you know, but am content

to be in the minority, for the few years of life which remain to me,

....to find myself, trust,     the majority, when  come into the other
                a

                    I

                                       in

                                        I
world.                 Pray let us hear again, for our satisfaction, of Lady            's

state. You may guess how deeply sympathise with you. But believe

one never truly understands the blessed mystery of marriage till one

..."has nursed         sick wife, nor understands, either, what treasures women

are.

                   Sailors and " Two Years Ago!"                                                                                        29

                               TO THE SAME.

                               [On the death of his wife.]

" We were utterly shocked at your letter.                     EVERSLEY, July, 1857.
                                                            We knew nothing about

      Who can feel for you more deeply than                 who have had the same
danger in prospect in past times, and found                 even at distance -- too
it.

      I
                       ;
                           in
                        I
                             if ?
                                I
                                                         is
                                                                    a
                                                               it I,
                                                                                                           a
horrible to contemplate But believe that those who are gone are nearer

us than ever and that (as surely believe) they do sorrow over the
mishaps and misdeeds of those whom they leave behind, they do not

sorrow in vain. Their sympathy             further education for them, and a
pledge, too, of help -- believe of final deliverance --for those on whom

they look down love                  God bless you, and give you strength.

Again, feel for you and with you utterly."

                               TO HIS WIFE.

"...                                                             Salisbury, April 14, 1857.
            have been wandering in and out of that wonderful grey Alp
      I

               is

                                 I

                                                                                     a
                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                                 is
(the  cathedral)   among the trees.        could write volume on                                                                        it. It
like  Raffaelle's  Belle Jardiniere --perfect lofty grace, without                                                                      touch of

severity. It       like a great mountain, with its strata, and secondary

ridges, and spurs, and lower peaks, all leading up to that great central

aiguille which rushes up into the highest blue, till you expect to see the

clouds hanging round its top, and fancy the jackdaws are condors round

the   peak   of  Chimborazo.   wonderful.  You shut your eyes, and re-open
      But        repose so
   "        the  a
                           is
them with a sort of surprise at finding             still there. It awes you, too,
                                     I

                                                it
without crushing you. You can be cheerful under its shadow, but you

could not do base thing. But will not ramble on.            .                                                 .
   " Kiss all the babes for me."                                .

                                                                     a
During the course of the year letter arrived from chaplain
                                           a

of a Queen's ship on the Nova Scotia station, who, after apolo
gising for the liberty he was taking in writing to thank him for
his books, adds --

" found on our arrival here (Halifax) that an edition of Two Years
I
    I

          I

                                    I

                                                                is

                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                           is
                                                                                                                a

                                                                                                                                     '
Ago,' published at Boston, was to be had but no one seemed to know

it. My purpose in writing to you              partly for encouragement in the

preaching of views to which am becoming the more and more attached,

and partly to tell you how much your books are liked by naval men.

could, also, tell you of good resulting from the reading of them. For

example,         know one instance of an officer, who                                                                                 man of cul

30 Charles Kingsley.

tivated mind, and yet he told me that until he had read ' Two Years

Ago,' he had never said his prayers (for years past) except when in

trouble. It would fill up this letter altogether, were I to tell you of
Iall the praises hear from every one of my mess-mates who have
read this book. I consider it a duty to get them all to read
                                                                                                              ' it,  and

Westward Ho            as believe, both are calculated to make men better.
I'
                                    !'
                                         ;
                          I
have got them both for the sick quarters, and hope to have them

generally read by the ship's company as well

     "About sailors.    have always found that they came willingly to
       I
                       I

                                I
                                    ;I

                                                                      ;
                                                                                                 '

                                                             I
church. My preaching since have read your Sermons for the Times,'

speaks more of love than ever                                always held the same opinions, but

was afraid of the preaching of them now, however, that find one
                                                                                                    'I
whom believe to be both wise and good not afraid, do not see why                                                     'I
                                                                                                           a
should be so either.                                                  tried in the cock- pit

   " have bible class for the men, which
'I                                          I
               ;                               I
                 a                                    I;

                                                           I
and failed on the main-deck, and failed and at last, taking lesson

from Two Years Ago,' resolved to go to the men instead of expectingI
them to come to me -- and thus, have at last succeeded. My plan was

the following :-- went to the fore-capstan, round which the men smoke,
                    I

and laying my book down thereon, said was come to read chapter
                                                                                                    a

for them, and that those who did not wish to be present, might move aft                                              '

--and that, so far from wishing to interrupt their smoking time (even
ing) was my special desire that they should continue smoking, their
     ; it
attention being all wanted.                 have this class now regularly on Thurs
                    aI                      I
                                                  I

                                                         I

                                                                      it
                                                                          is

                                                                                it
day evenings, and more attentive or orderly audience could not be

seen the men are beginning to feel an interest in and congregate

there some time before the hour arrives.                           wish you could see them,

such fine manly handsome fellows.                            know     doing good. It might

at first sight be supposed that the time, place, and circumstances would

be calculated to lower my position but so far from that, the men know
                                            I
                                                          ;
that must be in earnest, and they are more gentle and respectful than
     I
ever.  I         need hardly say that preach love to them as the great induce

                '
....ment, and agree with you that no other plan should be tried
From the Sermons for the Times,' have learnt much, and now have
                                            I

clearer ideas on many of the subjects                              "

   After some particularly bitter newspaper attacks, a friend
writes to him to tell him the effect " Two Years Ago " had had
on distinguished member of one of our universities, who had

had no settled faith for years.
Ia

                                                    in
" write for your soul's comfort                              your noble and much traduced

                         A Sense of Sin.                                31

work in God's service. Poor dear * * * attributed his being convinced
of sin, and driven to seek Christ the Lord and Saviour, to your last
book, especially that fearful account of Elsley Vavasour's chase across

the mountain, and Tom Thurnall's experience in the Russian dungeon.
He had always said to me that he never could understand what was
meant by the sense of sin as spoken of in the Bible, and by Maurice in
his Theological Essays. But one night, about six weeks before his
death, when he awoke in pain and darkness in the middle of the night,
the remembrance of that terrible isolation which you had described in
these passages came upon him in awful horror, and drove him to seek
help from God. No one who knew * * * before that time and after it

could fail to see how great the change was that was wrought in him.

IHe only spoke of it to me once, and as knew how distasteful to him
Iwas all self-analysis, at least to others, never re-opened the matter,
Ibut after his death found he had said the same thing to * * *. Now,
my dear Kingsley, I trust this will be some comfort to you in the midst
of all this foolish calumny. As I said, I meant to have written of this
to Mrs. Kingsley. I know how she would prize such a fact in connec

tion with such a man."

                TO REV. GEORGE HENSLOWE.

[Who had written to him as to the possibility of a sense of humour in the Creator.]

                                                                  EVERSLEY, Sept. n, 1857.

  I" cannot see how your notions can be gainsayed, save by those who

have a lurking belief that God is the Devil, after all -- a sort of unjust
and exacting Zeus, against whom they would rebel if they had Prome

Itheus' courage : but not having that, must flatter him instead.
" The matter presents itself to me thus.           see humour in animals,
Ie.g., a crab and a monkey, a parrot, a crow.
                                                   don't find this the result
of a low organisation. In each of these four cases the animal is of the
Ihighest belonging to his class. Well ; there the fact is ; if see
                                          a it                          God

                                                :

                                                         is
                                                                         is

                                                                          it,
                                                                                         a
must see also, or must have more insight than God into God's own
         Q. it  is a I
works.          E. Abs.
" Then comes deeper question. God sees
                                                   but He affected by

it       think we could give no answer to this, save on the ground of
   ?

    I

IfSon of God, who that image of the Father         in whom man created.

   " the New Testament be true, we have              right to say  of   h=umEorugro,

as of    all   other universally  human faculties  -- Hominis      est
Christi   est
               = Ergo Dei est.
" must accept this in its fulness, to whatever seemingly startling
I
                                 may lead me, or my theology and my anthro
                             it
and dangerous result

32 Charles Kingsley.

pology part company, and then, being philosophically unable to turn

Manichee (whether Calvinist or Romanist), the modern Pantheism
would be the only alternative ; from which homeless and bottomless pit

of immoral and unphilosophical private judgment may God deliver us

and all mankind. And you will see that into that Pantheism men will

rush more and more till they learn to face the plain statement of the
creed, ' And He was made man,' and the Catholic belief, that as the Son
of man, He sits now b> (roU) wpavoU, and on the very throne of God.
Face the seemingly coarse anthropomorphism of the Old Testament,

and believe that the New Testament so far from narrowing               it,    widens

and"       is
                  it.
       deepens         only  hope  and  stay,  while  see belief and practice alike
                                   a
       This my                                               ?

                                                  II

                                                                 it
rocking and reeling to decay. May God keep alive in me and in you,

recollecting always that to do the simple right thing which lies at our

feet,  is  better than to have ascended into the third heaven, and to

have all yvSxrtt and all mysteries.
   " You sign yourself by very noble name. Are you a son of that

good and wise man to whose lectures about Chara and Nitella have
                                                                       a
listened in Quy fen eighteen years ago                shall be happy to hear from
                                                                         I
you again."

   He gave many Lectures in the diocese this autumn for Me
chanics' Institutes, and among others his " Thoughts in Gravel
Pit," and one on " Chaucer," also a long promised one at Bristol on
" Great Cities, their Influence for Good and Evil." * Of this last,
one of his audience, a highly cultivated woman of the world,
writing to friend, says--
             a

                                                                                                                                    Oct., 1857.

    " rather set my face against excitements about people, but must
it.
plead guilty to something of the kind in this case, and certainly the
  II
sight of and hearing Mr. Kingsley last night has no way diminished
       have hardly thought of anything else since
                                                                       and went
                                          I it I
                                                               a
                                                                                ;
                                                                           S
                                                                 I
                                                                         II
together, feeling much alike, and was much amused at her express

ing just what was feeling. When the lecture was going to begin,
           is '
she said, Oh, forgot there was to be                  lecture,         only thought
              a II
of hearing Mr.         Kingsley.' And           was all along more     than        knew
                                               the lecture itself and  watch     him in
how to meet all        at once --to follow
  -- for he
it              lecture in himself.            never saw anyone like him before,

                             * Published in the " Miscellanies."

                     Eloquence and Intensity.                                                                                        33

Ithough never once caught his full face, for we were at the side, and
Itoo far off for me to see clearly. He was not quite what expected,
but better, I think--you know I have no power of description. I think

what struck me most was the intensity of feeling in the man, expressed

in countenance, figure, and every movement ! J.'s remark was, he

had never seen such traces of thought in so young a man before, and

that the lecture was better than any novel. I think he was very much

moved and exhausted ; and verily that earnestness and intensity is

enough to exhaust any mortal body. Did you know he was at school
Iat Clifton?
                    suppose coming here stirred up many remembrances.

He began by saying he had got (he could not say learnt) his first
social lesson here, at the time of the Bristol riots. He described,

in his own graphic way, some of those days ; and then went on to
say those scenes of horror were not the struggles of death, but of life--

a new birth ; from that time he dates the movement to ameliorate

the condition of the lower classes ; and then came a thrilling allusion to

the present crisis, from which again he believes there is life, not death

or decay, to be worked out. Then he went on to speak of the origin

and necessary condition of cities. It is no use for me to attempt to

give you an account of but you can fancy the vivid descriptions, the
                    I
touches of humour, at times the deep solemnity, and always the loving,
                           it
pitying, gentle spirit that pervaded all he said the absence of blame to:
people especially struck me Do you know all he says about 'washing,' *?

and the way he says        I it,was so amused at but expect some of the
                                              !              it       I

                                                 a                ;

strictly orthodox saw there will say, Mr. Kingsley says you only
                                                    '                             ; if

wash your bodies and take care of them, your souls will be all right.'
IfOne thing on enjoyment struck me deeply,
                                                                !' '  you have not some

thin"gThtoe  enjoy  in life, you are  in            living grave      to go away      so he was
             room   was crammed,      and           numbers had

asked to repeat the lecture, and he has promised to do so when he

comes again in January to lecture at the Athenaeum.                   I  thought of

when he described town people and country folk-- for, according to him,

townspeople are the best not only their intellects sharper, but their
                     !

moral characters better, more self-sacrifice and helping of others while
                                                                                        ;

  * Speaking of the results of modern civilization in cleanliness, ventilation, &c, as
being the deadly enemies to drunkenness, he adds, "and what more than all -- we
                                                    I

                                                             I

                                                                         it
                                                                                               is

                                                                                                                                 Da
7vasA. That morning cold -bath, which foreigners consider as young England's strangest

superstition, has done as much to abolish drunkenness, as any other cause whatever.

With a clean skin in healthy action, and nerves and muscles braced by sudden

shock, men do not crave for artificial stimulants.           have found that, ceteris paribus,

is  in direct proportion to his cleanliness.        believe  would be so in all classes had

they the means," &c., &c.-- Great Cities, Miscellanies, vol. ii., p. 3jO.

     vol. 11.

34 Charies Kingsley.

country folk in their composure and leisure are apt to be selfish and
independent."

   He was just now engaged on a volume of poems for publica
tion, and they had been advertised by Messrs. Parker for
Christmas. But while preparing them for the press he was
asked to write an article on Sanitary reform. This work, and

the terrible depression produced on his mind by the Indian
mutiny, prevented his being able to get them ready in time. The
following extract of a letter to Mr. John Parker, junior, has been

sent to the editor by Mr. Simon, as characteristic :--

" Of course I will do                          bit of sanitary reform work
I                                                                                   sacred
             : II                                                             is
                                                                                  a
                               '                                                               a
                                          it.

                                aA
duty, from which dare no more turn away than from knocking down

murderer whom      saw killing                 woman.     Helps  such precis  of  the  Bir
                      Couldn't               we get from
   " think thus

mingham meeting as may serve for a nucleus. Item, from Simon all

he likes. Item, from Tom Taylor his speech, for which Toulmin Smith

going to attack him, and                       can do aught for Tom there might
is                                                        I
                it,                                                            ;
                                                                          I
               if

               iIf
                               iIf
" However,          do --no poems at Christmas, young man remember

that. Still, you'll see the parties in question, will throw my whole
soul into please God, and forget India in Cholera. That's better than

rhyming, surely."

   The agony of his mind as the details from India poured in,
though he had no relatives or personal friends engaged in the
mutiny, was terrible, and he writes to Mr. Maurice --
                                                                 :
                                                                                3,
                                                                 EVERSLEY, Sept.    1857.

" can think of nothing but these Indian massacres. The moral
I
    II I

                    I
                         I
                             it I

                                       aI
problems they involve make me half wild. Night and day the heaven

seems black to me, though never was so prosperous and blest in my

life as am now.          look at a woman or child -- even at my own
                          It raises such horrible images, from which
   " can hardly bear to                                          is

beloved ones sometimes.                                                     iIf

can't escape. What does                      all mean? Christ                             it I
                                                                 King, nevertheless.
                       should do-- dare not think what -- did not
tell my people so.

believe so. But want sorely some one to tell me that he believes

too. Do write to me and give me clue out of this valley of the shadow

of death."

                               Hell on Earth.                                            35

To his friend, Mr. Bullar, he writes : --

   " - - - Do not talk to me about India, and the future of India, till you
can explain the past -- the past six months. O Bullar, no man knows,

or shall know, what thoughts they have cost me                                           Meanwhile,
I feel as if I could dogmatise no more. I dare say you are right and
II wrong.
            have no heart, at least, to continue any argument, while my

brain is filled with images fresh out of hell and the shambles. Show

Ime what security have that my wife, my children, should not suffer,

from some unexpected outbreak of devils, what other wives and children
Ihave suffered, and then shall sleep quiet, without longing that they were

saf"e  out  of a world  where such things are possible                               My experience
       You  may think   me sinful for having such thoughts.

is,

           I
                             ;
                             if
                                           is
                                   I
                                              II a
that when they come, one must face them, do battle with them

deliberately, be patient       they worst one for while. For by all such

things men live, in these the life of the spirit. Only by going down

into hell can one rise again the third day.                                     have been in hell many

times in my life therefore, perhaps, have had some small power of

influencing human hearts. But never have looked hell so close in

the face as have been doing of late. Wherefore                                  I  hope thereby to

get fresh power to rise, and to lift others heavenward. But the power

has not come yet               And can only cry,                                '    Lord, in Thee
                                         I
                                                                                  O

have   I    trusted, let me never be confounded. Wherefore should the

wicked      say, where    now his God
   " But     while write   now, and while
            I                            if ? '  fret most, there comes to me an
                     is
                                           I
inner voice, saying --What matter          thou art confounded.                          God is not.

Only believe firmly that God at least as good as thou, with thy finiteis
reason,' canst conceive and He will make thee at last able to conceive
            is,                                                                          '
                            ;
how good He and thou shalt have the one perfect blessing of seeing                           I

God.                                       Se am and so,                              read honestly,
   " You will say am inconsistent.                                              is
            I
                                        I                                           if

                                                                             ;

are David's Psalms. Yet that very inconsistency                                 what brings them

home to every human heart for ever. The words of a man in real

doubt and real darkness, crying for light, and not crying vain. As                   in

trust shall not. God bless you."
       I

                          TO JOHN ByLLAR, Esq.

" am glad you have broached                                   EVERSLEY, Nov. 26, 1857.

                                                 subject with which now never
I
  I'

                                   '

                                I
                                                                  a
                                                                 I

                                                                       I
trouble any one, but on which should like you to know what think.

That associations are a failure, because the working-men are not fit for

them,       confess. That any law of political economy or of nature has

36 Charles Kings ley.

Ibeen broken by them, or by Mr. Maurice, is what never could perceive.
I know a little of ' laws of nature,' not merely economic, but in several

sciences, and have considered long and earnestly the meaning of those

Itwo words, ' nature ' and ' law,' and this seem to see.

   " The being who merely obeys the laws of nature is ipso facto a brute
beast. The privilege of a man is to counteract (not break) one law
of nature by another. In the exercise of that power stands all art,

invention, polity, progress.

  I" E. g. am on the ground by the law of nature called gravitation.
When I make a pair of stairs and go up them, I counteract that law
by another ; but I don't break
                            it.
   " Or again, putrescence produces disease by laws of nature. When
                                                                                               I

                                                                                                     I
neutralise that putrescence for sanatory purposes,  I  counteract certain

universal laws of nature, and others equally universal, but                                           don't

break them.

   " Now what complain of in political economy up to this time -- what,
indeed, earned for Fourier's bitter epithet of the Science du neant,'
that has almost utterly forgotten this distinction. It says, There are
it                                               '                                                    is,

        I                                         iIf

                    it

laws of nature concerning economy, therefore you must leave them alone
                                                          were to say, You
to do what they like with you and society Just as!

got the cholera by laws of nature, therefore you must submit to cholera                               ;

you walk on the ground by laws of nature, therefore you must never go

up "sItnaidrse.ed,  am inclined to deny to political economy, as yet, the
          it a
name of science. It as yet merely in its analytic stage explain
             I          it is

                                            I
                                                                                                  ';
ing the causes of phenomena which already exist. To be a true

science,            must pass on into the synthetic stage, and learn how, by

using the laws which    has discovered, and counteracting them by

others when necessary, to produce new forms of society. As yet

political economy has produced nothing. It has merely said Laissez-

faire!'
"Now, am not complaining of it.          consider the analytic work
of the political economists of the last hundred years as invaluable. ItI

              it
forms the subject-matter for all future social science, and he who                                    is

ignorant of builds on air.       only complain of their saying, 'You
                            I

                                         is
                                                                a

                                                                                            '
must not attempt to counteract these laws. You must allow chance

and selfishness to rule the fortunes of the human race. Yet this they

do say. The only new circumstance of humanity which they have

ever advised or considered possible,  the ridiculous and impossible

one of repressing population. My dear Bullar, century hence man

kind will be looking back upon the social philosophy of the present

day as they do upon the witch manias of our forefathers.

                                  A World of " Laissez-faire."                                                     37

   " Now, as for any schemes of Maurice's or mine -- it is a slight

Imatter whether they have failed or not. But this I say, because

believe that the failure of a hundred schemes would not alter my con

Iviction, that they are attempts in the right direction ; and shall die in

hope, not having received the promises, but beholding them afar off,

and confessing myself a stranger and a pilgrim in a world of laissez-

faire. For it is my belief that not self-interest, but self-sacrifice, is the
only law upon which human society can be grounded with any hope of

prosperity and permanence. That self-interest is a law of nature I know
Iwell. That it ought to be the root law of human society deny, unless

society is to sink down again into a Roman empire, and a cage of wild

beasts, as it very probably may --as it certainly will, if your theory is

accepted, that God has meant one man to rule, and many to obey. There
Iis much in these days tempting one to that belief.
                                                                                  shall resist
                                                                                           iIt,                    as

do any other snare of the devil for                                         once believed                   it,
it I                                                                                       must carry

        II

                                           ;
                                            a
                                                         a
                                                                         ;

                                       I
                                           iIf
out.  must give up all which                     have learnt most precious con

cerning political freedom, all which keeps me content with the world,
because look forward to nobler state of humanity and must
                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                  I

become as thorough                despotist and imperialist as Strafford himself.

Tired of the helplessness of laissez-faire, educated men are revolting

fast to Imperialism and when once the commercial classes shall have

discovered, as France has done already, that                                Despotism need not
                                                                            a
                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                '
interfere in any wise with the selfish state of society, but that * * * *
and son,' and * * * * and brothers,' can make money as fast under
a
                               '
Napoleon as under Christ, Manchester will not lift finger to save the

liberties of England. The old traditions, borrowed from the Huguenot

refugees at the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, which now connect

our commercial classes with the cause of civil liberty, will be found to

be, what they are, mere accidents of the commercial system and we
                                                                                           is,
may then have state of society more rotten, because more physically
I                                                                                              ';
                                                 of old Rome.
     it                                           see that day
                    it a
cun"nintgruasnt dmwyeeayltehsy,     than   that                             that  shall be either at
                                  shall   never;

                                                          it

                                                                  a

                                                            I;
                                                                   aI
rest in this churchyard, or founding for myself family of free land

owners in the valley of the Ottawa. And have this comfort, that

when comes, will not last that will perish by self-combustion,

and out of the ruins of rotten Europe, new, and fairer, and juster

world arise, and man discover at last that he was meant to obey nature

only in order to rule her, and that the first political maxim                                                      He who

loseth his life shall save it.'                  I  have learned in the experiment
   " So am content to have failed.
is I
priceless truths concerning myself, my fellow-men, and the City of God,

which eternal in the heavens, for ever coming down among men, and

38 Charles Kingsley.

Iactualizing itself more and more in every succeeding age.        see one
Iwork to be done ere die, in which (men are beginning to discover)

nature must be counteracted, lest she prove a curse and a destroyer, not

                                        is,

                                                   I
                                                               I
a blessing and a mother ; and that        Sanitary Reform. Politics and
Ifpolitical economy may go their way for me.
                                              can help to save the

lives of few thousand working people and their children, may earn
is
               'athe blessing of God.

                         a                                                              Eversi.ey, Dec. 1857.
   "Art thou                master in Israel, and knowest not these things Master
                                        ;
                                                        is
                                                           a

                                                                           is a
                                                                                    '?
                                                                                                is
minds there certainly are in the world and how to assert their mastery
   sufficiently defined for them by the words of the master mind, who

Christ. He that will be greatest among you, let him be the servant of

all. For the Son of Man,' the incarnate ideal of humanity, came not

to be ministered unto, but to minister.'
   " Simon's question
                            is  most pertinent, and belongs to class which

has puzzled me greatly, and puzzleth still. Natura -- i<ns -- id quod
nascitur -- and all induction seems to show us that what
what has beginning has an end -- That death               born dies,

   a                                          law of nature.

   If"Now comes the puzzle.         one allow souls, ifruxal, and physical

phenomena (as distinguished from material ones) to be parts of nature,
must we not predicate the law of death of them, and say that all souls

must die

   " This puzzles me, and this
Paul's metaphysic of there being
   ?                                  did not see some escape in St.
                    is              something higher than soul, viz.,

                            (iIf
spirit, which has eternal life, and may deliver both body and soul from

Ithe law of death) what makes me shrink from the conclusion to which
  have otherwise no objection, viz., that all psychical phenomena, com

monly called the phenomena of the intellect and emotions, are natural.
To this conclusion the experimcnta cruris of dreaming has helped much

to lead me and also the impossibility of drawing any line of difference,
   ;
                                 a

                         I
save in degree, between the human soul and that of animals.           am
                                                     is
                                                        a

                                                              I

                                                                               is
inclined, therefore, myself, to say that conscience, as much as memory,

a natural law of human nature. know that conscience       faculty which

requires to be kept in order, and often counteracted, by other laws, just

as much as the faculty of dead dog for making poison-gases. Con

science not only 'makes cowards' of men, as Hamlet says, but

sometimes makes torturers, murderers, liars, and villains of them and,
                                                                  a;
as in the case of inquisitors and despots, requires to be counteracted by

the natural law, whereby        a  rope placed round the neck of living

mammal not in contact with the ground, prevents that living mammal

henceforth from abusing its conscience to the detriment of its neigh
bour. You perceive?

                                 Novels and Real Life.                                            39

  I" But want any one who talks to me about conscience, to define
first what he meaneth thereby. I hear the word as loosely used as I

do, nature; and, till it be defined satisfactorily, refuse to give any
opinion on the ' rights of conscience,' which is the new god of these

days. Mind I am not dogmatising. I only know that I know nothing,

but with a hope that Christ, who is the Son of Man, will tell me piece

Imeal, if I be patient and watchful, what am, and what man is."

                                 TO GEORGE BRIMLEY, Esq.

    " Thanks for your excellent review of ' Two Years Ago,' and your

equally excellent letter. About Major Campbell you are, perhaps, right,

              he is.
              the canons
Ipor"trAaibt oaust
                                 of criticism    know little, and am trying to forget
what I know. I think the latter part of your letter answers the ques

tion, and that photography versus painting does give the analogy

Iwh"ich  will have   to be       followed henceforth.         in a story, beautiful               as
         look at it  thus.        The idea of self-evolution

         just one of those logical systems which
it  is,                                                       too narrow for the
        is                         It
                          a                  It

                                                                 is
                                                                                               a
transcendental variety of life and fact.                would stand good of Greek

tragedy, as of Greek statue.                   never has stood good for Christian

art,  either  painting,       drama, or aught    else.  see figures thrown  in 'cvirapfpyy
              greatest       Christian pictures   you
   "  In the

which are not required by the subject, e.g., the Pope and St. Theresa in

the Madonna di San Sisto. Their use, conscious or unconscious,                                    to
                                                        a

                                                                  it
                                                                        is

                                                                                   is
                                                                                       a
                                                                                              is
connect the subject with the rest of the universe, even with the present

time, and show that does not stand alone, that                not world of
      is
                               it
itself (to which alone self-evolution would be completely applicable),
but connected with the rest of the world. That this the case in
the Shakespearian drama, all know. Not play of Shakespeare's in

which whole scenes, whole characters, might not be cut out without
hurting the plot, and you will find, comparing his dramas with the

Italian novelle, from which he took them, that these supernumeraries

are his own, put on purpose, while the mere novella self-evolved,in
and consequently narrow, and without deep and broad human appli
                                                              if is
cation.                                                                     to be a
                                                                   it
    " Now in the modern novel you ought to have all this,              is

picture of actual life. You must have people coming in, influencing
your principal characters for awhile -- as people do influence you and

me, and then go on their way, and you see them no more, as John

Bunyan has in the best (and therefore most successful) novel whichit,
ever was written, which ought to be model for all novelists. You
                                                 a

 40 Charles Kingsley.

  must have descriptions of everything which can possibly influence your

 characters, or make your readers picture them strongly to themselves,
 subordinated only to the development of human character and the
 arousing of interest. You must, as you so well remark, have people

 talk, as people do in real life, about all manner of irrelevant things,
 only taking care that each man's speech shall show more of his cha

 racter, and that the general tone shall be such as never to make the
 reader forget the main purpose of the book. Finally, you must have
 napapdatis, isn't it ? like those in the Greek romantic drama, where the
 author throws off the mask and speaks for himself. The Greeks found
 it necessary, so do we. People are too stupid and in too great a hurry,
 to interpret the most puzzling facts for themselves, and the author must
 now and then act as showman, and do it for them. Whether it's

according to 'Art' or not, I don't care a fig. What's 'Art'? I never

 saw a little beast flying about with 'Art' labelled on its back. Art

 ought to mean the art of pleasing and instructing, and, believe me, these
 passages in which the author speaks in his own person do so. Froude

Iapproveth of them, for talked it over with him. Women like them

 better than any part of a book. They like to be taught a little now and
then ; to feel that the book is the work of a human person, speaking to

them as human persons, and therefore I fear the * * * * hateth them
--just because they are the parts of the book which have the real

practical influence.

   " But I go on. What was artistic enough for Eupolis, Cratinus, Aristo
phanes, &c, will do for me; and I ask you to look at Bulwer's
novels, and see whether the same use of --irapafiacrets what women

call ' delightful subjective bits ' --has not been one of the secrets of
his great success. Of course it is very easy for a reviewer who dis
agrees with the doctrine to call it an obtrusion of the author's self;
but the author's business is to see that it is just not that -- to speak,
if he can, the thoughts of many hearts, to put into words for his readers
what they would have said for themselves if they could ; he will be paid
at once in thanks and correspondence, and having the secrets of sad
hearts opened to him : as last night, already, brought me one of the

saddest and most interesting letters I ever read, from some one to whom

reading ' Two Years Ago ' had awakened a new view of God. God
grant that it may last, and give a new life.

    " But you are right about Marie and Stangrave, up to a certain point.
They and their story were altogether an afterthought, and don't fit well.
To have fitted perfectly, Marie ought to have been brought under
Grace's influence (so, too, ought Lucia), as all the characters are under
that of Tom Thurnall--then the parallelism of the book would have

                        "Fire and Worms."                               41

been complete. But I trusted to the making the war of two years ago

influence both Marie and Stangrave's thoughts, as it does other people's.

IBut shall bore you. Good-bye, and many thanks."

   The letter referred to, which had just reached him, written in
a strong masculine hand, with a signature evidently meant to
be illegible, was as follows :--

"Sir-- Mr. B        was my confessor. Dr. P  is now. Neverthe
Iless read all your books, and yesterday, in the midst of ' Two Years
IAgo,' knelt down and said, ' At last, Oh God, I love thee ! for I know
that Thou art good ! ' " The writer then went on to ask for the author's
definition of " fire and worms, in Mark ix.," to which the following
answer was written :--

   " Dear Sir or Madam,
                " (For your signature is not sufficiently legible for me to

determine which of the two you are, nor, indeed, how your name is

Ispe"ltW.) hen  read of worms and fire, I suppose that they either are

worms and fire literally, or are some things which so resemble in their

action worms and fire, as to be best described by these terms meta

phorically ; to be what is vulgarly called ' a spiritual fire,' and ' spiritual

worms.'
"
"  Whether of the two they be,  this at least is certain.   they  seem  to
   The office of worms in this  world is to prevent, while

accelerate, putrefaction, and thereby to prevent infectious epidemics ;
to devour decaying matter, and render it thereby innoxious ; finally, to
transmute it into new, living, and healthy organisms. The office of
fire in this world is much the same, to devour dead matter, all but the

ash or inorganic constituents, which are left as manure (and the very
Ibest) for some future crop.
                                know no other worms, no other fire, on
Iearth, than these beneficent ones.
                                     expect none other elsewhere,

unless every creature of God is not good, and to be received with
Ifthanksgiving.
Ifthis or nothing.they be a literal fire and worms, then they must be
                       a metaphorical fire and worms, an ' ignis immate-

rialis,' such as the old fathers talked of, then they must be like this ; or

scripture (and the Lord Himself) is using words at random, or in a

deceptive sense.
   " The use of fire for torture, an utterly unnatural and monstrous

abuse of that ' element,' sprang up among men of devilish and unnatural

42 Charles Kingsley.

cruelty. It remained for a later age to adopt the belief of those Rabbis

who crucified our Lord, that God would abuse the powers of fire (for
ever !) for the same fiendish purposes for which they abused it for an
hour or two, in the case of some shrieking and writhing victim.

   " The torture of worms, Herodotus tells us, was tried now and then by

old Persian despots. The mind of man has as yet so far recoiled from im

puting so refined a barbarity to the Supreme Being, as to suppose in some

confused inconsistent way, that the fire, of course, is fire ; but the worm
-- they don't know about. A fire which cannot be quenched ; a worm
Iwhich cannot die -- see existing, whether they be those or not of which
Iour Lord spoke.
                             consider them among the most blessed revelations
I Iof the Gospel.
                             fancy that see them burning and devouring every
Iwhere in the spiritual world, as their analogues do in the physical.

know that they have done so on me, and that their operation, though
Iexquisitely painful, is most healthful.
I Iand kill them ; know too well that              see the world trying to quench
                                                  often do the same ineffectually.

But in the comfort that the worm cannot die, and the fire cannot be
Iquenched,
            look calmly forward through endless ages, to my own

future and the future of that world whereof it is written, ' He shall reign

till He hath put all enemies under His feet. The last enemy that shall
be destroyed is death.' And again, ' Death and hell shall be cast into

the lake of fire.'

  I" Of the parable of the sheep and goats, in Matth. xxv., have only
to say, that our Lord speaks it expressly of nations, and that neither you

Iare, nor am a nation, therefore the parable need give us no present

selfish disquiet, though it may set us on reading Gibbon's ' Decline and

Fall,' as showing how our Lord's words came true fully and literally ;

set us thinking what a nation means, and whether it be not better to

help to save England, than to try to deliver each ' his own life for a
pre"y,T' h'itshawt otuhlids
                             ruin may   not  lie  upon our land.'  Hebrew prophets,                               to
                             naturally  set  us   on reading the

whom, as to the rest of the Old Testament writers, the rabbinical

Tartarus was unknown, and in due time we should come to that verse

in Isaiah concerning the worm and the fire, which our Lord quotes in

the Gospels, and to other words about the fire of God, and its effect on

nations and individuals, from which we might rise up with more reve

rence than before, for the letter of Holy Scripture ; especially
I                                                                                                                 as

      a

            I
                          I

                                                                a

                                                        P

                                                                                            it
                                                                                                             if,
churchmen, we held that the Old Testament was not contrary to the

New.                                                               If. so, cannot
   " suppose this letter will be shown to Dr.

go to man for whose piety have greater reverence, deeply though,

to my sorrow, differ from him on very many points."

                      Naturis Melodrama.                                                             43

                      TO GEORGE BRIMLEY, Esq.

   " Dear Brimley,                                                     evrrsley, 1857.

          " Your letter has much comforted me ; for your disapproval is
really to me a serious thing, from what I know of your critical powers ;

while my own hopeless inability to judge of the goodness or badness of
Ianything
I' sesthesis.'
           write makes me more and more modest about my own                                          it is,
           That word ' masque ' will omit hereafter. The truth

that have drawn, modelled in clay, and picture fancied, so much
is

    I
        I
in past years, that have got unconsciously into the slang -- for slang
   --          I
    "  and am faulty therein.
       About the melodrama!
                        '
                                  ?)

                                             a

                                          I
                               on the Glyder,                          quite agree with you that

some folks will carp. There was cantankerous lady heard who she
was, but forget --why not                                              is (I
                               who attacked me fiercely on that score,

anent Westward Ho She knew not that the one point which infuriated'

her most, viz., the masts and sails and people looking red-hot against                               a
black background instead of vice versa, when Amyas struck blind,

was copied from the experience of near relative who was struck
       !

                   a

                          I
                                                                    a
senseless by flash of lightning, and squinted and had weak eyes for

years after. So much for the reward which one gets for copying

nat"urIen the Glyder scene     have copied nature most carefully, having

surveyed every yard of the ground this summer. The vision of Snowdon

towering and wet against the background of blue flame, appearing and

disappearing every moment, was given me by Froude, who lived there

   !

                                     it,

                                                                 ?

                                  I

                                                          it
                                                                                                           it
three years, and saw        and detailed                               carefully, begging me to put

in But why go on justifying               don't think the deerstalkers of Park

Lane and Belgravia will sneer, because they see such things in their

field-sports, and are delighted when such men as Maxwell or St. John,
or perhaps -- for they have told me so often --can put them into words
          ;

           I
for them but the true snubbers are the cockneys who write for the

press, and who judge of the universe from the experiences of the

London suburbs, or summer's watering-place trip.                              have seen as
                      'a                                               iIf
                                   a                                            I

                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                     '

                                                                                                 II
awful sights here at the breaking up of a long drought and what

wanted to do was boldly to defy criticism on that very point, calling

the chapter Nature's Melodrama,' and showing, meanwhile, that the
           a'
'  melodramatic element was false, and morbid, and cowardly one, by

bringing in Naylor and Wynd, thinking the very same horrors capital

fun. would not have taken Elsley there                                 had not taken them
       I

there also, as wholesome foil to his madness.                          Ever since Yeast,'
   " Claude and Sabina are altogether imaginary.

have been playing with them as two dolls, setting them to say and do

44 Charles Kingsley.

all the pretty naive things any one else is too respectable to be sent

about, till I know them as well as I know you. I have half-a-dozen
Ipet people of that kind, whom make talk and walk with me on the
Imoors, and when am at my parish work ; and charming company

they all are, only they get more and more wilful, being ' spoilt children,'

Iand cannot answer for any desperate aberration of theirs, either in

doctrine or practice, from hour to hour. Like all the rest of human life,

Ithe best things which get out of them are too good to be told. So

nobody will ever know them, save a little of the outside. Writing
Ifnovels is a farce and a sham.
                                                     any man could write the simple life

of a circle of five miles round his own house, as he knew, and could in

many cases swear it to be, at that moment, no one would believe it ; and

least of all would those believe it who did believe                           Do you ask the
                                                                              it.
me"anTihngoseofwthheo  paradox   ? that              the   facts  are  true,  or might  be true,
                        know best                   '                               if

would be those most interested in declaring them impossible. When

any man or woman       calls anything over-drawn,'                     try them, you can, by
                         Have you not seen, and                        perhaps done, stranger
the argument --
   " Now, confess.
'
     ?'  And in proportion to their honesty                                   geniality they will
things                                                                 and    were human, and
                                                                       who
answer, 'Yes.'
   " have never found this fail, with people
I

were capable of having any history at all."
                                   '
                                                        '

                 CHAPTER XVIII.

                                                                 1858.

                                                       Aged 39.

EVERSLEY WORK -- Diphtheria --LECTURES AND SERMONS AT ALDERSHOT --
      BLESSING THE COLOURS OF THE 22ND REGIMENT-- STAFF COLLEGE --
      ADVANCED THINKERS-- LETTER FROM REV. G. Boyle -- POEMS AND SANTA
      MAURA-- LETTER FROM DR. MONSELL -- LETTERS TO DR. MONSELL, MR.
      LEWIS, DEAN STANLEY, &c. -- LETTER FROM CAPTAIN CONGREVE -- BIRTH
      OF HIS SON GRENVILLE -- SECOND VISIT TO YORKSHIRE -- CORRESPONDENCE
     WITH MR. HULLAH ON SONGS --THE LAST BUCCANEER-- THE KNIGHT'S
     LEAP -- A HAPPY CHRISTMAS -- LETTERS ON MIRACLES TO SIR WILLIAM

       COPE.

      *' He was what he was, not by virtue of his office, but by virtue of what God

had made him in himself. He was, we might almost say, a layman in the guise or

  disguise --of a clergyman -- fishing with the fishermen, hunting with the huntsmen,

able to hold his own in tent and camp, with courtier or with soldier ; an example that
a genial companion may be a Christian gentleman -- that a Christian clergyman need

not be a member of a separate caste, and a stranger to the common interests of his
countrymen. Yet human, genial layman as he was, he still was not the less --nay,
he was ten times more -- a pastor than he would have been had he shut himself out

from the haunts and walks of men. He was sent by Providence, as it were, ' far
off to the Gentiles '-- far off, not to other lands or other races of mankind, but far off

from the usual sphere of minister or priest, ' to fresh woods and pastures new,' to find

fresh worlds of thoughts and wild tracts of character, in which he found a response

to himself, because he gave a response to them."  A. P. Stanley

(Funeral Sermon on Charles Kingsley).

                  CHAPTER XVIII.

  This was a year of severe work and anxiety, for he could not

afford a curate. Diphtheria, then a new disease in England, ap

peared in the neighbourhood, and was very fatal. It created a

panic, and to him it was a new enemy to be hated, and fought
against, as it was his wont to hate and fight against every form
of disease, and especially those which he suspected to come from
malaria, and other preventible causes. Its prevalence among
children, and cases in his own parish, affected and excited him,
and he took counsel with medical men, as to how to meet the
earliest symptoms of the new foe. When it reached Eversley,
some might have smiled at seeing him, going in and out of the
cottages with great bottles of gargle under his arm, and teach
ing the people -- men, women, and children, to gargle their throats,
as a preventive ; but to him it was terrible grim earnest, acting
as he did on Thomas Carlyle's principle, "Wheresoever thou
findest disorder, there is thy eternal enemy ; attack him swiftly,
subdue him, make order of him."

   His work for the Hants and Wilts Education Society, to
which he had bound himself to give so many lectures annually,
in lieu of subscription, was heavy : he lectured on local geology,
on Chaucer, on Jack of Newbury, and Flodden Field, and on the
Days of the Week ; in those days seldom repeating the same
lecture. The position of Eversley with regard to Chobham,
Aldershot, and Sandhurst, brought him more and more in con
tact with military men, and widened his sphere of influence.
The society of soldiers as a class was congenial to him. He
inherited much of the soldier spirit, as he inherited soldier blood ;
and the few of his direct ancestors' portraits that have survived
the wreck of his family, are all of men in uniform, including,

 48 Charles Kingsley.

 with others of earlier date, General Kingsley, Governor of Fort

 William, colonel of the 20th Regiment, who fought at the battle
 of Minden ; and among the family papers there are commissions
with the signature of the reigning authorities. He had himself,
 at one time, thought of the army as a profession, and had spent
 much time as a boy in drawing plans of fortifications ; and after
he took holy orders it was a constant occupation to him, in all
his walks and rides, to be planning fortifications. There is
scarcely a hill-side within twenty miles of Eversley, the strong
and weak points of which in attack and defence during a possible
invasion, he has not gone over with as great an intensity of

thought and interest as if the enemy were really at hand ; and

no soldier could have read and re-read Hannibal's campaigns,
Creasy 's Sixteen decisive battles, the records of Sir Charles
Napier's Indian warfare, or Sir William's magnificent history of
the Peninsular War, with keener appreciation, his poet's imagi
nation enabling him to fill up the picture and realize the scene,
where his knowledge of mere military detail failed. Hence the
honour he esteemed it to be allowed to preach to the troops at
Aldershot, and to lecture to military men there and at Woolwich.
His eyes would kindle and fill with tears as he recalled the
impression made on him on Whit Sunday, 1858, by the sound
heard for the first time, and never to be forgotten, of the clank
of the officers' swords and spurs, and the regular tramp of the
men as they marched into church, stirring him like the sound
of a trumpet. He lectured this year, too, to the troops in the
camp on Cortez. He was also asked by Mrs. William Napier
to bless the new colours which she presented to her father's old
regiment, the 22nd, of which Sir Charles Napier himself had
spoken when he, as its distinguished colonel, presented colours
to the 1st battalion some years before :

   "That brave regiment which won the battle of Meanee --won the
battle of Hydrabad --won Scinde for England ; . . . . the regiment
which stood by the King of England at Dettingen, stood by the
celebrated Lord Peterborough at Barcelona ; and into the arms of
whose grenadiers the immortal Wolfe fell on the Heights of Abraham.

Well may I exult in the command of such a regiment." (Life of Sir

Charles Napier.)

                         True to his Colours.                               49

   After the ceremony, Mrs. Napier went round the ranks,

among which were many old veterans who had survived from

the great Indian battles, in which her father commanded them

in the field, and introduced Mr. Kingsley to them. That too
was a red letter in his calendar, as he called it. He camped
out a night this summer with the Guards on Cove Common.
His sermons in camp brought many officers over to Eversley
Church, and led to the formation of friendships which were very
dear to him. During the earlier years of the Staff College,
Sandhurst, of which his valued friend General William Napier

was commandant, he was often invited to mess, and was received

with a marked respect, which did as much honour to his hosts as
to their guest. That he never shrunk from showing his colours,
the following reminiscence from one who was present will

testify: --

   " We had among us one or two so-called ' advanced thinkers,' men

who were inclined to ridicule religion somewhat. I remember once the

conversation at mess took that direction, and Mr. Kingsley stopped it at

once and for ever in the pleasantest, and at the same time most

effectual manner, by pointing out how unmanly and ungenerous it was

to endeavour to weaken a faith which was a trusted support to one's

friends. He said it was impossible to use arguments of this kind with
out causing pain to some, and even if a man could hope to produce

conviction, it could only be by taking from his convert much of the

present joy of his life. Would any brave man desire to do that for the

mere sake of a rhetorical triumph ? There was the regular little
apology, ' Forgot for a moment that there was a clergyman at the

table,' &c
   " ' All right, never mind, but you must not apologise on that ground.

We are paid to fight those arguments as you soldiers are to do another

sort of fighting, and if a clergyman is worth his salt, you will always

find him ready to try a fall with you. Besides, it is better for your
          if
friends,  "   they  are  to have the poison,  to have the antidote  in the  same
spoon.'

   But while the army called out his sympathies, the Church made

demands on him which were as readily responded to, as the next
letter from the Rev. George Boyle, now Vicar of Kidderminster,
who was among the many visitors at the rectory in 1858, will

show :--

50 Charles Kingsley.

                                Summer Hill, Kidderminster, November 20, 1875.

    "My dear Mrs. Kingsley,

             " My very busy life, and a condition of health hardly yet equal
to must plead my excuse for having left your letter too long unan
    it,
swered.    grieve very much to say that some to me inestimable letters
         I

                      a
                            a
on the subject of orders and duties of clergymen, were lent by me some

years ago to friend now dead, and was never able to discover where
                                           I
they were from his executors.              lament this the more as they would
                                                I
have shown in marvellous degree that warm power of sympathisingI

                                                                      it '
with men perplexed by the anxious questions of twenty years ago,

which you know so well was the distinctive mark of your loved and

honoured husband. In 1848, soon after the 'Saint's Tragedy' ap

peared, Mr. Kingsley came to Oxford.                                                       saw him first at Mr. Powles'

rooms, and well remember his warm eulogy of Past and Present,' and

his wonderful recitation of some poetry. But was at poor C. B.'s, in

a   gathering of young men, all ardent admirers of his poetry, that first
                                                                                                    I

really knew something of the strange power that he was to exercise over

many minds in years to come. The conversation led by John Coning-
ton turned upon the future of the working classes, and we were all after

some time spell-bound by the consuming energy of his pathetic words.

    saw him again at A. Froude's and few readers of Yeast,' which
II         '                                                                                        ''
                                                                                                                     a
                      J.
                           I

                                            a

                                  I
                                                                ;
                                                                                        '
  soon began to appear in 'Fraser,' were more influenced by its magic than

    was. Two years afterwards was Percy Smith's guest at Eversley.

  The long walk on the heath, the discussion arising out of Alton Locke,'

  and the marvellous effect of sermon on Jeremiah,' afterwards printed,

I   think, in National Sermons,' are among my most cherished recollec

  tions. Some years later ventured to recall myself to him in time

  of great perplexity, as to inspiration and the work of the ministry, and

  no casuist could ever have entered into the doubts and difficulties of

  one anxious to work and yet shrinking from unfaith, more lovingly than

  he did.  It has always been to me very deep regret that we met so
                                           is
             I                           C. Hare says somewhere of Arnold, that to
  seldom, for felt what            ' a J.     Ia

  talk with him was like stepping out of the odours of an Italian Church

  to the air and breath of               ofheathery moor. One sentence in one letter
       graven on my mind.                  You dislike the tone                                     officiality of the
  in is is

      a
               it.
                            is
  clergy now. When you have been eighteen years in orders you will

  detest   But that reason for skulking from the war which all men
                                a

  should wage, but which Christ's servants can do better than others
         comfort often to feel there one little spot, the parish, to which
                                                                                                    ?

                                                                                                        It

  thoughts and prayers are for ever turning.'                                              It       almost an impertinence

                                                                                                is

    me to write in this way to you, but retain very vivid recollection of
                                                                                           a

                       Fresh Moorland Air.                                                            51

Iyour and his kindness, and              can assure you few days pass without

Isom" ethhinagve  to   recall to me the   noble life and  work of                your husband.
                   in   my mind now      his own words    of poor                Mansfield, ' happy

those who knew thee in this life, happier they who shall know thee in

the life to come.'
   " Dean Stanley was here with me in July last, and it was a real

pleasure to hear his glowing words as to the effect his (Canon Kingsley's)
too short occupation of the pulpit of the Abbey had made. Let me

add one testimony of a man of the world :--' I went as you told me to

hear Kingsley preach ; you were right. That man believes, and he sent

me to my Bible to read and pray.'

                " I am, dear Mrs. Kingsley,

                                               " Very truly yours,

                                                                                 "George D. Boyle."

   The impression of " freshness of the moorland air," which Mr.
Boyle mentions, has been often spoken of by friends, women as
well as men, who knew him at this period :--

" I can never forget," said Lady         , " the impression he made upon
Ime when I first met him about twenty years ago.
                                                                                 feel it impossible to

convey as little can try to describe scent or tone of music Ita it,
was like touch of fresh life to one's spirit. It was like the freshness ofIa
                               I
a mountain breeze, laden with the richness of many moorland flowers,It

and sending one on one's way with joy.                     !seemed to set in motion all

that was in one of high and noble aspiration                  aa                 His manifold nature,

so high, so rich, so broad, breaking in upon the monotony of life,

helped one to rise out of the dull commonplace of lower level. With

him one looked around upon this world with new eyes, for he was artist,
poet, philosopher--all in one.
                                         might add that he was much more, for

his knowledge was so great and varied but                                        was as an artist
                                         ;                                       '
                                                                                         .
                                                   it
                                                                                              . in
temperament and soul that he chiefly struck me. With him one could

look into the deeps of our great human nature, and feel oneself under

stood with him one looked above to the Father of our spirits, and
is

   ;

     I
          I

                                                       ;

                                I.

                                                                              a
gained fresh inspiration to love and to work. He asked me one day to

sing to him.           sang that wonderful song, 'Che faro senza Euridice.'
It was too much for him. It sent him out of the room to hide his

emotion.          then knew what was the only thing he could not bear.                             .

He spared that bitter cup. .             . Rare and far between were my

opportunities of meeting him but valued good talk with Charles
Kingsley,' more than most of the other good things of life. Some of his

52 Charles Kingsley.

words will ever remain in my memory ; and when he went away to his

home in Heaven I felt what a great presence had left this world."

   Early this year his poems were published, and among them
" Santa Maura," which had a powerful effect on thoughtful people ;
the story being so little known.

  I" am delighted," he says to Mr. Maurice, " that you are satisfied
Iwith ' St. Maura.' Nothing which ever wrote came so out of the depths

of my soul as that, or caused me during writing                                   was all done in
                                                                                  (it

                                                                                                     ;
   day and night), poetic fervour such as never felt before or since.ait a

It seemed to me sort of inspiration which could not resist and the
              a                                       in
                   a
                                                            II
way to do came before me clearly and instantly, as nothing else ever

has done. To embody the highest spiritual nobleness in the greatest

possible simplicity of                      young village girl, and exhibit the martyr
                                       a
element, not only free from that celibate element which so jumbledit ;
                                                                                  is

up with in the old myths but brought out and brightened by mar
        it

riage love. That story, as stands                     the Acta SS., has always been

....my experimentum cruris of the false connection between martyrdom
and celibacy. But enough of this selfish prosing.                                                       have no
                                                                                  II
novel in my head just now.                                                                   I
                                                  have said my say for the time, and
                                            aI

                                                                               a
want to sit down and become learner, not teacher, for am chiefly

impressed with my own profound ignorance and hasty assumption on

eve"ry  possible subject.              see  you   in  town, though                only came for the
        was sorry not to
   I

       is

                                           I
                                                     I it I

                                                             I
                                                                 I
pleasure of seeing you, and not on any business at all.                           longed, too,

to see Mrs. Maurice, but was afraid of pressing to the very lovely

person who opened the door, and at whom, hope, did not stare too

much, as she was just one of my Grace Harvey ideals.                                      hope her

mind as fair as her face, for the sake of her master and mistress."

   The volume of poems led to his first communication with Dr.
Monsell, who writes:--

   " EV. AND DEAR SlR,                      Gulval Vicarage, Penzance, April 14, 1858.

   R

         I
        " have read with wondrous delight your beautiful book of

poetry just come out, and thank you most sincerely for great deal of
                                                                                  I it a
   as a source of very pure pleasure, and great deal of as very deep
it                                                I
                                                                       a
                                    '
and earnest teaching in holy things. One poem especially thank God

for, that entitled St. Maura.' could wish that sent out into the world

                      Imagination an Awful Gift.                                53

by itself, as a little tract, to be slipt into the hands of the suffering, or of
those who are sometimes in the midst of great blessings disposed to

make too much of the little trials they are called on to endure. It

would strengthen and brace up to high endeavours and endurings many

who now little dream of what real endurance for the love of Christ
I Imeans.
           know it was so with me the other day.             had heard from

home of some parish vexations, which pained me far more than any
Iearthly ill should do.
                         took up that dear book, read that one poem
Ifor the first time aloud to my wife and children, and as laid it

down with tears in my eyes, could smile through those tears at any

little cross I had to bear for my dear Master's sake. What it has done
I Ifor me am sure it will do for thousands, and therefore have ventured

to tell you how God has blessed it to me.
   " May He strengthen and bless you in your noble endeavours to

glorify Him and benefit your race is the sincere prayer of one who has

been much benefited by your writings.
                                                      " Yours most faithfully,

The answer is characteristic :--  "Joh"n(VSi.caBr.           Monsell.
                                                             of Egham.)"

" My dear Sir,                    Eversley, April 2, 1858.

           " Your letter gave me the most lively pleasure, and all the

more lively, because it came from you, whose spiritual poems have been

a delight and comfort in a time of anxiety to my dear wife.                     If

  II" Would to God that could be the persons that can conceive.

you wish to pray against a burden and temptation, pray against that awful

gift (for it is  a purely involuntary gift) of imagination,   which  alternately
flatters and     torments its possessor, --flatters him by   making  him fancy

that he possesses the virtues which he can imagine in others ; torments
him, because it makes him feel in himself a capacity for every imagin

able form of vice. Yet if it be a gift of God's (and it cannot be a gift
of the devil's) it must bring some good, and perhaps the good is the

capacity for sympathy with blackguards, ' publicans and sinners,' as we

now euphemize them in sermons, trying, as usual, to avoid the tremen

dous meaning of the words by borrowing from an old English transla

tion. To see into the inner life of these ; to know their disease, not

from books, but from inward and scientific anatomy, imagination may
If Ihelp a man.
                      it does that for me shall not regret it ; though it       is,

selfishly  speaking,  the most humiliating and tormenting of all talents.
                                       " God be with you and yours,
                                                  "C. KlNGLSey."

54 Charles Kingsley.

   Mr. B. Lewis, of Ongar Hill, had written to ask if the story of
Santa Maura was true ; " the story " he says --

   " So well told, so shadowy -- obliquely, rather than by narrative, with
almost an incoherence that adds greatly to the interest-- a sort of sub
dued dramatic impersonation that made me turn up all resources within

Ireach, to contrast with it some dry hagiology of this deacon's wife.

think that it cannot be without meaning that you send it forth in the
same volume with Andromeda. There is something more than sug
gestive in putting the two stories side by side.' "

                                 TO B. LEWIS, ESQ.

                                                                  Eversley, March 20, 1858.
" You will find what you want under the head of S. Timotheus of

Mauritania, or SS. Timotheus and Maura. They are in Surius, and

Iin the Bollandists, suppose. It is from Surius I know them. You

will find a meagre sketch of the story in the Hagiology, prefixed to
Fox's ' Martyrs.'

  I I" have simply copied what found, omitting a few frivolous speeches

ascribed to her, and a story of her being offered marriage to a great

captain, as well as details of torture which would be too painful.

   " As for the human element. It seems to me that wherever human
beings are concerned, there cannot well help being a human element, if

                                 it,

                                          It

                                                              a
folks have eyes to see                     which the martyrologists certainly had not,

and, indeed, refused to have.                    stirs sad smile in me, that in the

19th century, after Christian men have been believing in the Incarna
tion, they should be welcoming the human element in the stories of
                                 new thought -- but with
their own heroes, as           a                                 a  certain fear and dis
trust -- as                       a
             if,  however pleasant and interesting to find Santa Maura, or;
                                     is I
Sai"ntExacnuyseonme ee,lsde,ear  human being,    it  wasn't      quite right and proper.
                                 Sir, am not     laughing        at you but at the world
                                                                                          in

general. Your feeling               that,  it Isuppose, of most pious people only
more kindly expressed.           Verily,
                                                         mad world, my masters.' "
                                                 is  a                :
                                                                                  ;
                                                    '

He himself, in his humility, thought the poems were overrated

and on receiving from a friend                         very favourable review of the

new volume, he says --
     ;

       I
                  I

                                                      :

                                                            a

                                                          I
" You are not wise in rating my work high.                          feel in myself defi
                                                                      I
                                                                            aa
ciency of discursive fancy, which will prevent my ever being great

poet.        know can put into singing words the plain things see and

feel but all that faculty which Alexander Smith has (and nothing else)

                    The Value of Criticism.                 55

-- and which Shakespeare had more than any man --the power of meta

phor and analogue -- the instructive vision of connections between all

things in heaven and earth, which poets must have, is very weak in me ;
and therefore I shall never be a great poet. And what matter ? I will
Ido what I can ; but
                      believe you are quite right in saying that my

poetry is all of me which will last. Except, perhaps, Hypatia.

  I" don't know how to thank you. Cordiality is very comfortable,
while one is sickened by the futilities of critics. Every one flatly con

tradicting the other, both when praising and when blaming ! I never
saw till now how worthless opinions of the press are. For if A, B, C,

D, flatly contradict each other, one or more must be wrong, eh ? And

which is the one to believe ? For instance, A says I finish carefully, and
of art prepense, but want instinctive musical ear. B, that I have natural

melody, but am slovenly, and so on. What is to be learned from such

criticism ? Yet I would gladly take a hint from any man. No one can
I Isay am self-willed or self-conceited about these poems ; long for a

guide ; but where is there one ? Good-bye, God bless you."

             vTO REV. ARTHUR PENRIIYN STANLEY.

                                                                    Eversley, April io, 1858.

" My Dear Stanley, --

        I I" must write and tell you the perfect pleasure with which

have read your three lectures on Ecclesiastical History, which that

excellent fellow, Edward Egerton, lent me.
   " It is a comfort in this dreary world to read anything so rational and

fair, so genial and human ; and if those Oxford youths are not the better
men for such talk, they deserve the pool of Hela.
   " What you say about learning ecclesiastical history by biography is

most true. I owe all I really know about the history of Christianity
                    to thumbing and re-thumbing a copy of 'Surius'
(ante Tridentine),
Acta Sanctorum.'    In that book I found out for the first time in my

life 'what they were all about.' But you have, from your greater

knowledge, and wider view, a spirit of hope about it all, which sadly

fails me at times ; and therefore your lectures have done me good ;

and I thank you for them, as for personal and private consolation
which I sorely wanted. God bless you and prosper you and your

words."

   Among the many pleasant friendships formed at this time,
which sprung out of the Eversley Church services, was that of
Captain Congreve, who thus recalls those Sundays :--

56 Charles Kingsley.

  I" It was in the spring of 1858 that Capt.,  now Colonel,  Jebb, of the
                                               Church. We
67th, and first began to go to Eversley                      used to walk

over on Sunday mornings after breakfast, and then have some bread

and cheese at the little public house in the village after church.
   " There we discussed with our host, the parson and the village

Igenerally, and remember his amusing us very much once, when re

ferring to some cricket to be played in the afternoon, by saying, ' Eh,

Paason, he doan't objec' --not ee --as loik as not 'e'll coom and look on,

and ee do tell 'em as its a deal better to 'ave a bit o' elthy play o' a Sunday

evenin' than to be a-larkin' 'ere and a-larkin' there hall hover the place

a-courtin' and a-drinkin' hale.'
" Mr. Kingsley soon observed the two new faces in his church, and
Ispoke to us one Sunday after service. From that time
Ipretty constant guests at your Sunday luncheon-table.       think we were
                                                                 shall never

forget the genial, happy, unreserved intercourse of those Sunday after

Inoons, and never strolled home to mess without feeling that I had

come away wiser and better from the contact with that clear and kindly

mind. He essentially loved men and manly pursuits, and perhaps liked

soldiers, as being a class among whom manly feeling and manly virtues

were cultivated.

   " The Staff College was then in its infancy, and had perhaps gathered

together a few of the best educated, hardest working, and most ambitious

young men in the service.

"Mr. Kingsley was very soon a welcome and an honoured guest at our

mess. He entered into our studies, popularised our geology, and was
an able critic on questions of military history. Not only that, however, --

head work needs physical relaxation. He told us the best meets of the

hounds, the nearest cut to the cover, the best trout streams, and the

home of the largest pike. Many an hour have I spent pleasantly and

profitably on the College lakes with him. Every fly that lit on the boat-

side, every bit of weed that we fished up, every note of wood-bird, was

suggestive of some pretty bit of information on the habits, and growth,

and breeding of the thousand unnoticed forms of life around.

  I" am ashamed of having been able to say so little on a matter which

is to me so abiding a satisfaction, so ever pleasant a memory as my

friendship with your late husband.

  I" did not write to you in that sad time when he was taken from us,
Ipartly because knew you were yourself sick almost unto death, and partly
Ibecause felt that a great and popular man had many friends, and that

letters of condolence might be multiplied beyond all reasonable con

venience.                         "Yours truly,
                                            "W. CONGREVE."

                           Second Visit to Yorkshire.                     57

His youngest son, Grenville Arthur, for whom, in course of
time, " The Waterbabies" and " Madam How " were written,
was born this spring, and named after his godfather, Dean
Stanley, and Sir Richard Grenvil, one of the heroes of " West
           "
ward  Ho            from   whom  Mrs.  Kingsley's  family claimed     descent.
          !
A new novel was now projected on the subject of the Pilgrim

age of Grace, which made it necessary for him to go into York

shire for a few days to identify places and names. This was his

only holiday for the year, and thanks to the kindness of his

friend, Mr. (now the Rt. Hon.) E. Forster, and Mr. Morrison, of
Malham, it was a very charming one, combining antiquities,

manufactures, scenery, and fishing, with the facts he had to

make out. The novel was partly written, but never finished.

                                           Burley, Wharpside, July, 1858.

" At a most delicious place, and enjoying good society and a good
                                                     Tell the children I have
library, with some very valuable books     hav'nt seen --the largest water-
I Ijust seen --oh !
                          don't know what

wheel in England, making light summer over-coats for the Yankees and
IGermans.           am in a state of bewilderment -- such machinery as no

tongue can describe, about three acres of mills and a whole village of

people, looking healthy, rosy, and happy ; such a charming half-time

school for the children, library for the men, &c Tell R. I saw the

wool as it came off the sheep's back in Leicestershire, followed it till it
                    an ' alpaca ' coat, and I don't
was turned into                                      care to see  conjuring"or
magic after that.   The country is glorious

   " We had a delightful day at Bolton yesterday, and saw the Abbey.

Tell R. I jumped over the Strid where young Romilly was drowned.

Make her learn Wordsworth's ballad on      What good for bootless
                                           it,                    is a
                                                                       a
                                                '

                                                            is

bene              like the F.'s more and more -- happily for me he        great
I
genealogist, and we are making out lots about the Askes and Cliffords,'
         ?
      I
                 a
and every one, and the subject gets clearer day by day. We go off to

morrow for walking excursion into the High Craven. This the most  is

noble and beautiful of counties, and such pleasant people. Tell R. and

M. have gathered them plants from Bolton Abbey."

                                                     Mai.ham House, Skipton, July5.
   " Here am at most charming place, built by old Lord Ribblesdale
--now belonging to Mr. Morrison, an Oxford First Class man, son of
      I

                        a

58 diaries Kingsley.

Mr. M. of Basildon. The house looks out of fir woods and limestone

Iscars over a lake a mile square, and simply the best trout fishing ever

have seen. It belonged to the old monks of Fountains, and will come

into the book with the old Percys and Cliffords connected with it. My
Ilargest fish to-day was i Jib. (a cold north-wester) ; but with a real day
Icould kill solbs. Unfortunately it wants all my big lake flies, which I,
never expecting such a treat, left at home.                                                                       have got such flowers !
IActea spicata, for instance. To-morrow may get some fresh species."

                                                                                                                   July 6.

dMaal"elh)H.aemreAlCIloavtmhea, tswtiaIlls,h(aaIfvteefor uhhneadav,ridnngootbfeeetxhnaegtgogerarcanhtdueerdcu.hr  at Horton in Ribbles-
                                                                                                                  of Godale Scar and
                                                                                                                  The awful cliff filling

up the valley with a sheer cross wall of 280 feet, and from beneath a
black lip at the foot, the whole river Air coming up, clear as crystal,

from unknown abysses. Its real source
                          I
                                      iIs,

                                                                                             is
                                             suppose, in the great lake

above, Malham Tarn, on which am going to-morrow. The fishing

the best in the whole earth. Last night we went up Ingleborough,

2380, and saw the whole world to the west, the lake mountains, and

the western sea beyond Lancaster and Morecambe Bay for miles.

There was cap on Scawfell forty miles away which has ended in heavy
        ;I                              ever saw --tall, noble, laconic,
                  a
                      it

                           I

                                                                a

                                           I

                                                                                                      .

                                                  .I

                                                                                                                .

                                                                                 ."
rain to-day. The people are the finest

often very handsome. Very musical too, the women with the sweetest

voices in speech which have ever heard.                                                                          trust Rose has got her

letter  sent down to Settle by man.

" Back again at Wharfdale after three delightful days with Morrison

at Malham. came home last night, twenty-five miles through Skipton.
  have just been over to Denton -- noble place -- situation as fine as

Bramshill -- house just like Bryanstone, with beautiful pictures such a
I                        I
     Ia                                           a
        II I                                                           ;it a

                     is                                                                                  ;
delicious Andromeda, longed for you to see                                                                         and some very fine
              I
Dutch landscapes. One blue Breughel seemed most valuable. Then                                                              a

park full of noble timber and deer, the Wharfe below, and opposite moun

tain thousand feet high.  never saw more perfect paradise
                         ;

                            I

                                                        a
                                                                        ;

                                                        I
                                                               I
Thanks for the dear letters. What you say about subjectivity being so

delicious so womanly you ought to feel that, and perhaps ought to
feel, as do, the value of the outward world and so you can help me,

and you, and both together make one humanity                                                                       long to be

back.   feel restless and reckless away from home, and all the more

because have no time for 'subjectivity.' My days are spent in taking
in facts, and plenty of them have got. That wonderful Malham Tarn
                          I

                                                 it.

                                               It
will come into the book and all around                belonged to the monks of

                      Yorkshire Roman Catholics.                                          59

Fountains. I go to Ripon Saturday, Fountains Monday, York Tuesday,
                                          I must stay till I have
Iand then have all the East Riding to do
seen all want. It would be folly to go home without the materials for
which I came                                                                              "

" Here I am at Hull after having made a rush. I have seen Ripon,

Fountains, Thirsk, Helmsley Castle, Rivaulx Abbey, Malton, the Wolds,
Walton Priory, Beverley, and the most beautiful churches I ever saw--
I Imore than
              have ever done in a given time, and now Hull.

can make out everything but Hull. One labyrinth of docks and streets,
with not a trace of what it was in Henry VIII.'s time. I have done
Imy work well. The book grows on me.
                                          see my way now as clear
as day. How I will write when I get home. Love to R. and M., and

the Baby."

   After his return home a lady of an old Roman Catholic

family sent him through a common friend some curious facts for

his book, but expressed her fears that his strong Protestant

sympathies would prevent his doing justice to her co-religionists.
He thus acknowledges her help in a letter to Mr. C. Kegan

Paul:--

                                                                      Eversley, October, 1858.

"Will you thank Mrs. **** most heartily from me for all she

has found out for me. The Merlin's prophecy about Aske is invalu

able. The Miltons I don't know of, and would gladly know. The
IYork documents about the Pilgrimage of Grace have got, hear, to

Durham, at least there are none to be found in the Chapter Library

at York.

  " But let her understand --if it be any comfort to her-- that I shall in

this book do the northern Catholics ample justice ; that Robert and

Christopher Aske, both good Romanists, are my heroes, and Robert the
I IRebel my special hero.
                              can't withdraw what said in ' Westward

Ho,'   because it is  true.   Rboemenanibsemforuen. derOtfhecoJuerssueitsMbrse.ca*m*e**a  different
thing    from what    it had                                                              does not

know that, and why should she ?
I" But fear she will be as angry as ever, though really she is most
Imerciful and liberal, at my treatment of the monks.
                                                      love the old
Catholic Laity : I did full justice to their behaviour at the Armada
Ijuncture ; but know too much of those shavelings, and the worst
              a

                                                            I
                                                                      iIs,
know, as Wolsey knew, and every one knew, things one dare'nt tell the

world, much less woman. So judgment must go by default, as cannot

60 Charles Kingsley.

Iplead, for decency's sake. Still, tell her that had been born and bred
a Yorkshire Catholic, I should probably --unless I had been a coward --

have fought to the last drop at Robert Aske's side. But this philosophy
only gives one a habit of feeling for every one, without feeling with

them, and I can now love Robert Aske, though I think him as wrong as

man can be, who is a good man and true."

  A correspondence with his friend, Mr. John Hullah, about

setting his songs to music, may, though the letters are slight,

be interesting to some. In the summer of 1857 he had

written :

" You are perfectly welcome, my dear Hullah, to set any of my songs

you choose. Those that have been set by others hitherto have quite
Idissatisfied me.
                     have neither part nor lot in them, nor wish to have.
.... I Iam much pleased to hear of the success of the song.*
                                                                                                                                    have

heard of it from other quarters beside you ; so that the public voice

Iseems pretty unanimous. But take no share of the credit. Words

are nought without music and singing ; and it is to you and Miss Dolby

that the praise is due. Pray present my compliments to her, and thanks
Ifor the honour to which she has brought me by her (so I hear) marvel
lous voice and science.     hope some day to hear her myself. As it

have not been at concert this ten years seldom in London, and
iIs,

          is
                                ;

                                         a

                                                       it '

                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                                                 '
then always over-busy, and getting no amusement there. My amuse

ment green fields and clear trout streams, and the gallop through the

winter fir-woods and perhaps this free healthy life makes my little lark's

pipe all the fresher and clearer when tries song."

                               EVERSLEY, March, 1858.

" write to thank you in Mrs. Kingsley's name, as well as my own,
' 'I
for The Starlings.'  'I  have no doubt we shall like them as well as we
      '
did The Three Fishers,' and more than that cannot say.                                                                              only
                               it                                                                                                   I
heard The Fishers sung few weeks ago for the first time, and wasa                                                                      I
                                   II
much delighted. It was the only setting which have heard which at                                                                          I

all rendered what wanted to say, and entered into the real feeling ofI
the words. And there seemed to me in much true music, simple,

noble, and original.

   " Your approbation of my poems gives me very great pleasure.

feel more and more inclined to suspect that they are what can do

                     * " Oh that we two were maying."
                         !

I

J
s

    <

                       I

                                                                                                                 Q

                                                                              -I

iIs,6o

        isplead, for
 a Yorkshi
'Ihave foug
 only give
           Sthem, and
 man can 1
'
   A cor
                   a a; <
 setting h
 be inten
 written :

    " You a

 you choos

.... I;dissatisfiec

 heard of i

 seems prel
 are nought
 that the pi
 for the hoi
 lous voice

          have
 then alway
 ment gre
winter fir-w
pipe all th{

    " write
for The
did 'The
heard The

much deligl
all rendered
the words,
noble, and

   "Your

feel more

         6i

 2 creature,
 ie wars by
 ndled by
 nd as yet
 mgh about
 licitations,
 i than any

  30, 1858.

 0 long for

  judge of

I, should

 r a man's

Imsic, as

jed sailor,
unless you
sd to give
ess in the

' this, and

y I kriow.

 especially
:an be no
pell or use
e as freely
ih vocabu-

s.

which the
lahoganies
 on which
-er, one on

 beasts of

1 may find
hombury's
y-'
on't doubt
better."


                              Boucaniers.                                                                        61

best, and that I am, like Camille Des Moulins, ' une pauvre creature,

nee pour faire des vers,' and only likely to get myself into the wars by

meddling with politics and lofty matters, only to be handled by
Disraelis and Clanricardes. The public has been very kind as yet

Iabout the poems, and Heaven knows have been humble enough about

them ; for it was in exceeding fear, and only after long solicitations,

I Ithat put them forth. And am more dissatisfied with them than any

critic can be. Farewell and prosper."

                                                                                                     December 30, 1858.

    " Why not do as you like about the Ballad ? * It is too long for

singing, that is certain. And a bystander like you is the best judge of
what verses it can best spare. But if it has a public debut, I should
Ilike it first to be heard as a whole.
                                                     hope it is meant for a man's

voice. It would be quite out of place in a woman's mouth.

  I" You have made it rollicking, you say. My idea of the music, as

wrote was doleful sentimental bawl, as of wooden-legged sailor.
    it,                                              I
           a                                                        a

                 a
                    a
aI  hardly think rollicking tune suits the worn-out old man, unless you

  fancy him thorough blackguard, which did'nt want.                                                     tried to give
                                                                                                        I
    human feeling all through, by touch of poetry and sadness in the                                          I
                           I
poor old ruffian.                    a
   " Had been composer        should have tried to express this, and
        aI
                        a
yet with  half-comic manner. How to do that in poetry know.

You will find its perfection in Goethe's Plundersweilen Fair, especially

the gipsy songs. Of music know nought                                                                There can be no
orthography for Carib word -- for why Ye Caribs did not spell or useiIf
                a               I                    ?

any letters at all. Ergo-- Every man may render their tongue as freelyit.it a
as some missionaries do those of cannibals when they publish vocabuy°

laries intelligible to none less than to the cannibals themselves.
    " Boucan signified,
                           recollect right,                     wooden stage, which the

mahogany cutters put up round one of the giant swamp mahoganies

when they went about to fell                       Moreover, meant stage on which
                                                                                                     a

they and the logwood cutters and bull-hunters slept. Moreover, one on

which they dried the strips of beef, on which they lived like beasts of

prey, and were so-called boucaniers, or what you will. You may find
excellent accounts of them --well worth reading -- in Thornbury's

  Monarchs of the Main,' or Angus Reach's Leonard Lindsay.'
it '
     is

                 I
                    I

                                                                                                  '

                                                                        it
    " As for the song, have no man to sing                                                           to me, but don't doubt

    excellent.             don't think you could have selected verses better."

                       * "The Last Buccaneer." Poems, p. 320.

62 diaries Kingsley.

" My dear Hullah,                                              Eversi.ey, September 2.

          I" am very glad you like the song. I am sure your music
Iwill be better than my verse. But did the refrain of the copy sent you

run thus?

                       ' So gallop, good horse ; and

                                         Gallop, good horse ;
                       While hark

                       The lark sings
                       And the wide world waits for the morning ? '

I" Was the first line in ?  think it is better, as giving the picture, and
Ialso the sound of the horse's feet.        want to insert the line thus --

                       ' Riding the forest to meet with mine own,

                       So gallop good horse, and gallop good horse.
                       While hark, hark, hark,

                       The lark sings high in the dark.'

" Of course the gallop, &c, comes in at the latter part of each verse,
Inot at the beginning. But if you wish it left out altogether
                                                                                                            shall

succumb to your superior wit. Will this do ?

                       ' Hark, Hark, Hark,

                       The lark sings high in the dark,
                       The were-wolves mutter,

                       The night-birds moan :
                       The Raven croaks from the Raven-stone,' &c.

" I think the weirdness of the first new line will make the contrast
stronger with the lark. Query-- ' Night-birds,' or ' Night-hawks ? '

  " I like the latter as more distinct. I shall send you another song
Isome day.
               am gotten quite well, and my wits are coming back to me.
I see you want a name. I simply called it ' The Knight's Return.' If

you do not approve of that you are welcome to rechristen                                                    The
                                            it
                                                            it

                                                                                           it.
                                                                                                        ''
Midnight Lark would be exactly true, only so would be of Tom
             I
and Jerry.'         'don't think that would do.

   "Would 'St. John's Eve' do? for, on that night, the lark, they say,
sings all night long. The lark sings in the dark during the summer

solstice.  It  was from hearing him do that the song was taken."

                       TO MR. T. DIXON,

                       (Corkcutter, Sunderland.)

" My dear Mr. Dixon,        a                       Eversley, July 17, 1858.
          " You ask me for     few plain rules about reclaiming waste

                     Reclaiming Waste Lands.                            63

   " The land can be reclaimed in two ways.             r. The working man
finds the labour and some one else the capital.        In plain English, the

working man becomes an agricultural labourer. By digging waste lands

at task-work he might thus earn from 2s. to 3s. a-day in winter, and from
3s. to 3s. 6d. in summer. But this must depend on the price of labour
round, and his own strength and skill. A good man with us might clear
                     three poles (rods, I
and   dig in  a day                        think, you call them).
      2. By   doing  the same work with    their own capital.
   "

" For this purpose they must start with, per acre --
                                                       .500£ s. d.
      Expense of digging and clearing               .

      Draining, if necessary, from £2 to £$ 1                     °  °
              requiring skilled labour .                       2
                                                    .
                                                       .J
                                                    . ..0.01111503004
      I.ime, 100 bushels, at 4d            .
      Harrowing and sowing .                     .

      Seed oats, at 30s. a quarter

                                                       £9 18 4
" No return from April to September, i.e., six months. The cheapest
plan of disposing of their crop of oats would be to sell it standing. If
it succeed the crop may be, at its very best--
                                                       £ s. d,
      10 quarters per acre, at 305. .               ..368. . 15 o o
      100 trusses of straw, at 8d.
                                           .

      Less expenses of reaping, thrashing,                   68

              and winnowing  ....                      i 10

                             Total         . . £16 16 8

   " Thus you will have, putting everything in its most favourable light
(and paying for rent of land, say 2s. 6d. an acre, at first, as for really

"Awaste) :

        first year's certain expense of about £10 per acre, to set against
a probable profit of £16 i6s. 8d., leaving a net profit, per acre, of
£6 6s. 8d, for which you will have to wait till harvest. The next year

the ground must be in roots, which would hardly pay at all, unless you

had live stock to fatten on them, which needs more capital. These
calculations have been made with the help of my own man, himself a

very able small farmer. Of course we can only judge by our own south-

country prices, but we are not far wrong.

   " It follows that, unless your poor fellows can command this capital

64 Charles Kingsley.

to start with, their only plan is to engage some capitalists in their behalf

to  advance the          capital, or take them on as labourers at task-work.

    " Meanwhile           it must be remembered that if the land is waste,                                 it  is

because it is poor, remote, or both, and therefore too expensive for

profitable cultivation by the tenant farmer; and that therefore it will

pro"baBbeltyteryiefaldr   very ill,  after a  great  outlay.   the virgin  soil  of America,
                                     a man     has   capital,
                         to try, if

where a crop may be got by the roughest and most careless tillage.

Agriculture is an art which can only be profitably followed by unskilled
hands on such rich soils. ' Poor fellows,' said my man, ' how be they
a-gwain' to make anything out of moor land ? '
    I" You may do what you like with this.
                                                               wish it were more hopeful ;

but such as it                       the result of many years' practical experience
Ifof the matter, as well as of much thought thereon.IIa I is
                     is,                                                         you want to
                       it
know anything more, pray ask me."

                                  TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

  "I am up                                                     Eversley, December 30, 1858.
                         to the ears -- in spite of the length of those members
in me, which             fear increases --in preparing
                                                               new volume of sermons
                                              I
                                                  I

                                                          a
                                                                  a

                                                              I
                                                                                            '
                                                                         I
                                                                               I
                                                                                    I
for the press.           purpose to call them sermons on the Good News of
God "-- a clumsy title, but the only one which expresses what mean.

I  have taken far more pains with them than with any former ones, and

have selected them out of very many.                 should like very much for you

to see them in proof.                am much afraid of being doctrinally wrong here

and there, and leaving word on which charge of heresy might be

grounded, which could do no good, and might do harm. And as

speak far more boldly in them than ever yet have done, have to be
all the more careful. Your Sermons on Sacrifice thirst for, but they

are not yet come.                                              F. well enough to enjoy

   " We have had most blessed Christmas.
                         a

our Christmas parish party, and work in the garden again and your
                                     I

                                                                it

                                                                    I
                                                                                                        ;
godson come home with an admirable character and two prizes. My
cup runs over. God grant that may not throw over, as expect surely

to do some day, by my own laziness, thanklessness, and self-indulgence.
God bless you, and Mrs. Maurice, and give you all you need."

                                TO SIR WILLIAM COPE.
                                                     Eversley Rectory, December 19, 1858.

   "My dear Sir William Cope,

             " set to work on the question which you started about Augustine
and am sufficiently puzzled by to prove my own words, " that do not
    I

                                         it

                                                                   I

                                                                                                              ;

               Miracles and St. Augustitie.                                        65

Iknow Augustine well.'  cannot find, by index, the passage which your
friend quotes.* But I do find, as I thought I should, the curious and
valuable chapter (De Civitate Dei, Lib. XVI., Cap. 8), in which he dis
cusses the question of Sciapods, Monopods, Monoculi, Androgynae, and

other monsters, and concludes, philosophically enough, that one is not

bound to believe that they exist, and if they do exist, it is not proven

that they are men.

   " The only monsters similar to the ' men whose heads do grow beneath
their shoulders ' of Shakespeare, which he mentions there, are the

Cynocephali, which he boldly says are animals, and no doubt he is

right, the Cynocephalus being nothing but the great gregarious baboon

of Africa.    He speaks as having seen them and doubtless had.        be very

  " I did   not see what reference your friend gave. I should

much obliged indeed if you would kindly let me see as do notit,
                                                                 S.
like  to leave such questions  half  worked out.     he  mentions   as having
   "    have run my eye over   the   miracles which               I
I
    Ioccurred under his own eyes, in the De C. Dei, Lib. XXII., Cap.     8         and

                                                                                ;
again in the De Sanctis, the Sermo VII. (Relatio de Miraculis Stephani).
find but three, the one of the blind man cured at the Intervention of

IX,SS. Gervasius and Protasius, which he also mentions with additions in
his Confessions, Lib.          Cap. and of which,    a iIf  recollect right,
                        a
Ambrose also writes, as of course he would. Next, cured fistula on one
                           I
Innocentius exadvocatus vicarial prefecture'; 7,'    (some sort of    lawyer,
conclude) --in answer to fervent prayer -- which     he tells with    dramatic
                                                                                   I

                                                                   a

feeling and power worthy of him and thirdly, the cure, by means of

the relics of St. Stephen, of young man and woman afflicted by shaking

palsy from their mother's womb. That he saw and believed these three

there can be no doubt. The other stories which he tells rest on the

same evidence as most other post-scriptural ones. God forbid that                  I

should deny them. How can limit the wonders of grace, who find

daily the wonders of nature beyond my comprehension or expectation?
   " Only, knowing from mediaeval records, and still more from the

stories of the Indian massacres (which, as fields forjudging of evidence,

  * This letter and the following were an answer to this note: -- "As you may

possibly see Mr. Kingsley to-morrow, should be glad he or you could throw any
light on the following passage from St. Augustine, Sermones ad Fratres in Eremo,
the 37th Ecce ego jam jam Episcopus Hipponensis eram et cum quibusdam Servis
Christi ad /Ethiopiam perrexi ut sis Sanctum Christi Evangelium praxlicarem et
Vidimus ibi multos homines ac mulieres capita non habentes sed oculos grossos fixos
in pectore, ca;tera membra icqualia nobis habentes. Vidimus et in inferioribus

Apa.rtTibruesyo/ErthiCopriiasepinh.o"mines unum oculum tantum in fronte habentes. -- Yours ever,
       :

                                        I

                                                                                                  '

                                                                            if

                                                                                                                                                                           '

66 Charles Kings ley.

I have looked into somewhat closely), how very difficult it is to get at

truth, when people have once made up their minds what they would

like to be true ; knowing this, I Isay, think one may, without irre

verence, preserve a ' stoic epoche" ' on the matter, reserving one's judg
ment for more light, and meanwhile neither affirming or denying.

   " Excuse this long epistle."

                                                                                    Christmas Eve, 1858.

  " I met Crispin to-day, and told him the result of my research.
   " The Frobenius edition of ' St. Augustine,' which I have, says that

all the Ep. ad Fratres in Eremo are spurious, ' have nothing of Augustine

in them, and have been written by some one who wished to cry up the

Augustine Order.'

   " On the latter point I (and probably the Frobenian editor) can know
nothing ; on the former, I will vouch that letter 3 7 has not a line of

Augustine's writing in         in it.  never read them before, but the style                                      a is

                                   I
utterly unlike his, and places very weak, which he never is.
   " am glad to find them spurious, for on receiving your second

letter, said to myself thus -- perhaps too much after the fashion of
German critic-- will not believe that the man who wrote the chapter on
I
  I
     I

       '/
Monsters in the City of God,' ever wrote the passage Crispin attributes

to him.      know from reason that passage to be direct lie. will not
                                                      a
                                                                              aa

                                                                               II

                                                                                                               '
believe that Augustine ever told one, priori and posteriori will not

believe in the face of what he says on the same subject in the City of
           it,
               it
                            a
God.' So was comfort to find my own prejudicium corroborated
by the Frobenian, and to be able to leave -- as far as that passage
                                                                                                                  is

concerned -- the miracle of                     Gervasius and  Protasius on its old
                               is                              S.
                                     S.                                        a
ground. But the part of your letter which deserves long answer,

longer than   can give,        what you say about natural science and
             I

                    is
Buckland. It            exceedingly comfortable to me, who knew nothing of

him,   as  proving him to have been              the   wise  man always    believed him.
           for the fact -- my doctrine          has   been   for years,
   "  As                                                   '                 may speak of

myself -- that omnia exeunt in mysterium                      (a

                                                                 I
                                                                      I iIf
             ;'                                              saying, think, attributed

                                   ;

                            I
                                             a
to Augustine) that below all natural phenomena, we come to trans
cendental -- in plain English, miraculous ground.                                 is
                                                               I  argued this once   aa

with Professor H., who supported the materialist view, and                                                        con

summate philosopher and did not find that he shook me in the

least.

   " This belief was first forced on me by investigating the generation of

certain polypes of very low order. found absolute Divine miracle at
the bottom of all and no cause, save that of supremely imaginative
I

                               ;a

                                     I

                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                    ;
(if may so speak), as well as Almighty mind, carrying out its own ideas

                              The Arch-miracle of Christmas.                                                67

but gravitation, or the simplest law, will show the same truth. What

efficient cause is there that all matter should attract matter ? Why should
it not repel matter ? The only answer that God has so willed and
                                                    is                                                ;
                                                                 is,
  we come to final causes, there no better answer than the old mystic
one, that God has imprest the Law of Love, which the law of His own
It if                                                                 is

     is                                       may be type of the spiritual world when

                           ;
being, on matter, that            it                a

healthy, and of the kingdom of heaven.

  "lam deeply touched by what you say as to the miracles of grace.
all true, and most necessary to be preached now -- to me as well

as to others for one apt to forget grace in nature, the unseen in theis
seen. As you say, -- after the crowning miracle of this most blessed

nig"htT, haell  miracles      are possible.         was possible      because     God's               love  was
                miracle       of this night

absolute, infinite, unconquerable, able to condescend to anything, that

good might be done and who (who calls himself true philosopher) dare
limit that Love and power by any Laws of Time Miracles, in the vulgar
          a

               '
                                 ;

                                                                                    ?a
                                                                                                              a

                                                                                  I
acceptation of the term, may have ceased. But only for time.

cannot but believe that, should there come once more in the Church's

history,          dignus Deo vindice nodus,' we should have miracles once

more, and find them, not arbitrary infractions, but the highest de
velopment, of that will of God whose lowest manifestations we call the

Laws of Nature, though really they are no Laws of Nature, but merely

cus"toEmxscusoef  God            which He     can   alter as and when He will.
                  my          thus running     on.    But this Christmas night
                              ;                     I                                                 the one of
                                           a
                                                                    is

                                                                I
                                                                                                  is
all the year which sets physicist, as am, on facing the fact of miracle                                     ;

and which delivers him from the bonds of sense and custom, by re

minding him of God made man. That you and and all belonging to us

may reap the full benefit of that arch-miracle                        my prayer. What better
one can have "
          I

                         ?

   The year may close with the testimony of Cambridge B.A.
to "Westward Ho." Such good words coming at intervals were a

great help and stimulus to man who always depreciated his
own work, and was unconscious of his own influence.
                                              a
                                                                               a

" Sir,                                                                            Liverpool, 1858.

                " have just, for perhaps the sixth time, read your book of
'

           II
                               !'
                          I
                                                                   it
                                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                          F
                                                                                                                                                2

                                                                                                         it
                                                                                                                         is
Westward Ho and thank you for from my heart save one,

a book which has touched me to more of feeling, and done to me more

of good, as think, than any other.

68 Charles Kingsley.

I" also sail Westward ho, on a less glorious quest than Amyas' ; but,
by God's grace, I will be there Christian and Englishman.
" Farewell, sir ; and again I thank you ; if I live to come back and find
IIyou alive hope to have speech of you ; if not
                                                           Had  written
Isuch a book would gladly be thanked in such a manner.
I" am, your faithful and obliged,

                      " B.A. Cambridge."

                 CHAPTER XIX.

                                                         1859.
                                                       Aged 40.

Sanitary Work-- First Sermon at Buckingham Palace--Queen's Chap
     laincy-- First Visit to Windsor -- Letter from Colonel A. Jones--
     Letter to an Atheist -- Correspondence with Artists -- Charles
      Bennett, Frederick Shields -- Archidiaconal Encroachments --
     Letter to the Rural Dean and the Bishop-- Ladies' Sanitary
     Association-- Letter from John Stuart Mill.

   " What would become of mankind if the arena where must be fought out the great

battle of right against wrong should be deserted by the champions of the good cause
with -- disguise it as we may-- the selfish motive of rendering easier to their souls the

struggle which all earnest men must wage to the end against their own infirmities?
Rather did he emulate the heroism of those who, throwing themselves into the press
of human affairs, strike with all their might, and to their last hour, against ignorance,
folly, oppression, and are able to say with Sir Galahad, --

                            ' So pass I hostel, hall, and grange,

   By bridge and ford, by park and pale ;

IAll armed ride, whate'er betide,
  Until I find the holy grail.'

And those who thus fight on to the end, content to die in their harness, and in the
ranks of the faithful, will also be enabled to say with the pure knight --

                        I' And stricken by an angel's hand

                                       This mortal armour that wear,

This weight and size, this form and    eyes,  "
   Are touched, are turned, to finest  air.'

LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM                              NAPIER.

                    CHAPTER XIX.

   As years went on he devoted time, thought, and influence
more and more to Sanitary science ; the laws of health, and the
enfranchisement of men's bodies from disease and dirt, and their
inevitable consequences of sin, misery, and physical if not

spiritual death, became more important in his eyes than any
Political reforms. He lectured at the different institutes in the
diocese of Winchester on the laws of health, rather than on

literary and scientific matters, and attended the first public
meeting in Willis's Rooms of the Ladies' National Sanitary
Association, where he made a speech that was afterwards pub
lished under the title of " The Massacre of the Innocents."

   This year, 1859, was an altogether important one to him.
On Palm Sunday he preached for the first time before the Queen
and the Prince Consort at Buckingham Palace, and was shortly
afterwards made one of Her Majesty's chaplains in ordinary.
He now took his turn as Queen's Chaplain in the services at the
Chapel Royal, St. James's, and preached in the autumn before
the Court in the private chapel at Windsor Castle. On this
occasion he had the honour of being presented to the Queen
and the Prince Consort, and to the Crown Prince and Princess of
Prussia, then staying at Windsor, and from that hour to his dying
day he received marks of Royal kindness and condescension,
the memory of which will be an heirloom to his children. To a
man of his fine imagination and deep loyalty, who had sounded
the depths of society, and whose increasing popularity as an

author, and power as a preacher, had given him a large acquaint
ance with all ranks, this new phase in his life seemed to come

just to complete the cycle of his experiences. But while its
result was, in a certain sense, to establish his position and

72 Charles Kingsley.

enlarge his influence, on his own character it had a humbling
rather than exalting effect. From this time there was a marked
difference in the tone of the public press, religious and otherwise,
towards him : and though he still waged war as heretofore
against bigotry, ignorance, and intolerance, and was himself un

changed, the attacks on him from outside were less frequent and

less bitter.

   The events of this year, uninteresting to the outside world,
but each important to himself in giving colour to his daily life
and leaving its own mark on his heart and imagination, are soon
told. He sent his eldest son to Wellington College, which
had opened in the winter, and where the scheme of education,
due much to the wise influence of the Prince Consort, was more
consonant to his own views for his son, being of a wider and
more modern character than that of the older and more
venerable public schools. He was present at the marriage of
his friend Max Miiller and a beloved niece* who spent the
first week of their married life at Eversley Rectory ; and
he preached them their wedding sermon, giving them their

first communion in his own church. Dean Stanley (then
Canon of Christ Church, Oxford) paid his first visit at Evers
ley. His acquaintance with Lord Cranworth and with Lord
Carnarvon, to whom he became more and more attached as
time went on, was made this year. In the autumn, with his

wife, he spent a few days with Mr. and Mrs. Tennyson in the
Isle of Wight; but having no curate, his holiday was short, and
more than once he broke down from overwork ; the excite

ment too of the Sundays, and his full church, overpowered him.
He shrunk from the bustle of London, refused all sermons

there, and withdrew from politics.

I" have not been to town," he said, " for more than two days in
I Ithe last nine months.
                             see no chance of preaching there, am happy
Ito say, for a long time, save next Sunday, when preach to the Queen.
As for politics, I heed them not. The only politician now living is the

I*                                  were written beginning --
The  G.  to  w"hoAmhathsety  lines    once let fall,
                              jest
             As jests are wont to be, untrue." --To G.,        " Poems,"
                                                                          p.  236.

                   A Soldier's Testimony.    73

Lord of all ; and He has principle and principles ; whoever has not.
It is a fearful look out when God has to govern a nation because it
cannot govern itself. . . . ."

   Notwithstanding fair prospects and outward distinction, he

clung more and more passionately to his country home --the
" far off look," and longing for rest and reality, and for the un

folding of the mystery of life grew stronger upon him, and he
said more frequently to his wife " How blessed it will be when it
                "
is  all  over      With his children, however, he was always bright
               !

and merry. To his friend, Mr. Tom Hughes, he writes this
summer, on the 12th of June :--

    " This is my fortieth birthday. What a long life I have lived ! and
silly fellows that review me say that I can never have known ill-health
or sorrow. I have known enough to make me feel very old --happy as
I am now ; and I am very happy  "

   Among other valued friendships formed this year was that of
Lieut.-Colonel Alfred Jones,* a hero whom he delighted to honour,
who had won his Victoria Cross in India. While at Sandhurst

he walked over constantly to Church at Eversley, and thus

recalls his intercourse with Mr. Kingsley :--

                   FROM COLONEL JONES, V.C.

                   Abenbury Cottage, Wrexham, February 23, 1876.

    " Dear Mrs. Kingsley,
             " In proposing so kindly to associate my unworthy name with

that revered one of which you write, you are really doing me too much

I IIhonour ; but wish had preserved a letter or two of his which could
Isend in response to your request. Alas ! have not more of his

writing than the words, 'from the author,' in two volumes of the
ISermons which associate with that earnest and melodious voice in the
dear quaint little old church at Eversley. Long before I could hope to
Imake the acquaintance of their author,
                                         had read 'Alton Locke,'

    * Colonel Jones won his Victoria Cross, when Lieutenant in the 9th Lancers, by
gallantry in the field at the action of Budlee-ke-Serai during the Indian Mutiny,
and at a later period, in the battle of Agra, when he was wounded by a shot, cut

down, and afterwards received twenty-two sword cuts.

74 Charles Kingsley.

' Yeast,'  and ' Westward  Ho   '  on  the                   plains  of India,  or  during pleasant
                               !

rambles amid the glorious scenery of the Himalayas ; and ' Two Years
Ago,' is embalmed in my memory with the sweet voice ofa gentle lady

who used to read it aloud between my bed and that of a wounded

comrade in the Moti Mutjid, a pure white marble temple, which was

           into our   temporary hospital, at Agra.
           recollect  the remarkable influence of
I Iconverted

   " can
                                                                     the   books    have named

upon the characters of brother officers who did not survive, as many

others have done, to pass, like myself, from the novels to the sermons,

Iand am sure you need not search long in the ' Army ' or ' Navy Lists '

for men who thoroughly appreciate the honest, manly standard of duty

set"foPrrtohbainblayllththeemworrietincgosmomfoCnhatrylpees  Kingsley.     guide    is useful in his
                                                             of spiritual
way -- preaching maxims of expediency and conventionality mixed up

Iwith the sacred writings of his particular creed : but know numbers

of men, and some women, too, whose hearts can only be touched by a

voice which proclaims the moral duty of trying to do right, simply
because it is right, without any regard for consequences --men who see

their God's will not in an arbitrary classification by ticket for heaven

or hell, but in the gradual discipline which shall sooner or later sub
due every evil passion, and reduce human irregularities to that kind of

Iorder and self-control which is exemplified, for our instruction, by the
operation of every law of nature.                            do not mean to imply that

Kingsley's creed began and ended in such vague terms as those, but

that his honesty and charity were such as to create points of contact
between his sphere of thought, and that of one increasing class of men

who recoil from any more definite expression of what is called religion

than consists in the hope ' That somewhere good will be the final goal
of all,' &c. His unfeigned humility and directness of purpose could

not fail to be recognised by all who had the happiness to come in con

tact with him ; and the example of his Master in associating with publi

cans and sinners ought to be borne in mind by any who may feel

disposed to complain of his having found common ground and friendly
                                                                                    "
intercourse with so many who did not wear his cloth

  A correspondence with an intelligent artizan, an avowed

atheist, and editor of an atheist newspaper in one of the manufac

turing towns in the north, is unfortunately lost, with the exception
of Mr. Kingsley's last letter, in answer to one telling him that
his correspondent had in common with his class read " Alton
Locke," "Yeast," and "Hypatia," with interest, from "their fresh-

                                 Moral Atheism.                                75

ness of thought and honesty, which seemed to place them above
the factions of creed, while breathing the same spirit of Christian
kindness which Fenelon and Dr. Arnold practised." " Such

perusal," he added, " makes us better men."

" My Dear Sir,                                        Eversley, January 15, 1859.

         I" should have answered so frank and manly a letter before,
Ibut my father's sudden and severe illness called me away from home.
...hope that you and your friends will not always remain Atheists.
                                                                               It is
a barren, heartless, hopeless creed, as a creed -- though a man may live

long in it without being heartless or hopeless himself. Still, he will

never be the man he ought to have been ; and therefore it is bad for
Ihim and not good. But what I want to say to you is this, and
                                                                               do

want to say it. Whatever doubt or doctrinal Atheism you and your

friends may have, don't fall into moral Atheism. Don't forget the

Eternal Goodness, whatever name you may call                    call God. Or
I
                                    is,
                                                                        '
                                                   if
                                                                                 a
                                                                                                it.
                                                             aI
                                                                                                     a it
                                                                                           if
you even deny an Eternal Goodness, don't forget or neglect such goodness
as you find in yourselves -- not an honest, manly, loving, generous, a
patient feeling. For your own sakes, not for God's sake, keep alive in you

the sense of what              and you know to be, good, noble, and beautiful.
Ifdon't mean beautiful in art,' but beautiful in morals.
                                                                you will
keep that moral sense--that sense of the beauty of goodness, and of

man's absolute duty to be good, then all will be as God wills, and all
will come right at last. But you lose that -- you begin to say, Why
         I                                                      II
                                                                            '
                               if
                                         I

                                                     if
should not be quarrelsome and revengeful? why should not be

conceited and insolent? why should                    not be selfish and grasping?

then you will be Atheists indeed, and what to say to you shall not
know. But from your letter, and from the very look of your hand

writing, augur better things and even hope that you will not think
       I                         ;
            if                      a
me impertinent                 send you volume of my own Sermons to think
                iIf
over manfully and fairly. It seems to me (but may flatter myself) that
                          it is                       I
you cannot like, as you say you do, my books, and yet be what call
                                                            it  I
moral Atheists.                                                      I
" Mind,
         there                   anything in this letter which offends you, don't

take fire, but write and ask me (if you think worth while) what
mean. In looking through see several things which (owing to the
                                        I

perversion of religious phrases in these days) you may misunderstand,

and   take your friend for       your   foe.
      At all events, am,         yours   faithfully,
   "             I

                                                      " Charles Kingsley."

76 Charles Kingsley.

   Artists now often consulted him, and among them Charles
Henry Bennett, a man full of genius, then struggling with
poverty and the needs of a large young family, who began by
illustrating children's books, then went on the staff of " Punch,"
and died a few years since, greatly regretted. His letters, fol
lowed by a visit to Eversley, led to Mr. Kingsley 's offering to
write him a preface to an Illustrated Pilgrim's Progress, for which
he had some difficulty in getting a publisher, but on this offer
Messrs. Longman undertook to bring out the work at once.

              TO CHARLES H. BENNETT, Esq.

"... I EVERSLEY, January 23, 1859.
             feel as deeply as you our want of a fitting illustration of the

great Puritan Epic, and agree in every word which you say about past

attempts. Your own plan is certainly the right one, only in trying for
Iimaginative freedom, do not lose sight of beauty of form.
                                                              am, in

taste, a strong classicist, contrary to the reigning school of Ruskin,

Pugin, and the pre-Raphaelites, and wait quietly for the world to come

round to me again. But it is perfectly possible to combine Greek

health and accuracy of form, with German freedom of imagination, even
Iwith German grotesqueness.
                                  say Greek and German (i.e., fifteenth

Iand sixteenth century German) because those two are the only two
root-schools in the world.        know no such combination of both as

in Kaulbach. His illustrations of Reinecke Fuchs are in my eyes the

finest designs (save those of three or four great Italians of the sixteenth
century,) which the world has ever seen. Any man desiring to do an

end"uNrinogw  work, must  study,  copy, and surpass them.     Durer) element
              in Bunyan   there   is a strong German (Albert

which you must express, viz., 1st, a tendency to the grotesque in imagi

nation ; 2nd, a tendency to spiritual portraiture of the highest kind, in

which an ideal character is brought out, not by abstracting all indivi

dual traits (the Academy plan), but by throwing in strong individual
traits drawn from common life. This, indeed, has been the manner of

the highest masters, both in poetry and painting, e.g., Shakespeare and

Dante, and the portraits, and even heroic figures of Leonardo, Raphael,

Michael Angelo, Sebastian del Piombo, Bronzino, the two latter with

Titian, the triumvirate of portrait-painting. You find the same in Cor-
reggio. He never idealises, i.e., abstracts in a portrait, seldom in any
place. You would know the glorious ' Venus ' of the National Gallery

        jfohn Bunyan and the Eternal Humanity.                                                           77

if you met her in the street. So this element you have a full right to

employ.

   " But there is another, of which Bunyan, as a Puritan tinker, was not

          a
                    it

                                               ?

                                                                     is is,
                                                                                            is

                                                                        I
conscious, though he had it in his heart, that classic grace and purity
of form. He had in his heart, as much as Spenser. His women, his

Mr. Greatheart, his Faithful, his shepherds, can only be truly represented

in a lofty and delicate outline, otherwise the ideal beauty which lifts

them into supernatural and eternal world                             lost, and they become

mere good folks of the seventeenth century. Some illustrators, feeling
this, have tried to medievalize them -- silly fellows. What has Bunyan

to do with the Middle Age He writes for all ages, he full of an

eternal humanity, and that eternal humanity can only be represented by

something of the eternal form which you find in Greek statues.                                  don't

mean that you are to Grecianize their dress, any more than medievalize
it. No. And here comes an important question.

   "Truly to illustrate a poem, you must put the visions on paper as

they appeared to the mind of the seer himself. Now we know that

Bunyan saw these people in his mind's eye, as dressed in the garb
of his own century. It very graceful, and should keep to
                               is                                                                        not

                                                   I

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                    it,
only for historic truth's sake, but because in no other way can you

express Bunyan's leading idea, that the same supernatural world which

was close to old prophets and martyrs, was close to him that the devil
who whispered in the ears of Judas, whispered in the ears of a cavalier

over his dice, or a Presbyterian minister in his Geneva gown. Take

these hints as meant, kindly."

                                                              St. Leonards, April 1859.

" saw Longman the other day hunting his hounds, and we had a
'                                                                    I
talk about you and the Pilgrim's Progress.'
   I                                                                                      1 i,
                               '                                     shall be ready for

you some time this summer. Do you know the old cuts of the

Pelerinage de l'homme,' from which Bunyan took his idea They

have been lately republished.         II      will show them to you when you come

dow" n  to me.          heads  well.    really have had no time to write to you
is      like your

before, having been half insane with parish work and confirmationII

classes.  think Mr. Worldly Wiseman excellent, and the Lust of the
          I                                                          I
Eye,' ditto. Mr. Gripeman                                                       '
                  is '                '       too handsome.          think you want a

                                          is

more sharp, comprest, and cruel lip. But the general shape of the face
    g"oodth. inkItyouvemryustlikheavAelvam, owreho
                                                     was   a  cruel  man, and rigid pedant.a
                                                    smirk     about   Smoothman's face and
                                                                                                ';
should certainly shave him, all but very neat little imperial. The Lust
                                              a
                                                              have generally seen with strong
                                                  I
of the Flesh,' hardly animal enough.is

78 C/iarles Kings ley.

animal passion, a tendency to high cheek-bone ; but only in a dark
woman. Yours may stand for a blonde type ; but even then I should
Iprefer a lower forehead.
                           should take the ' Pride of Life ' for an older

woman, and a much stouter one. Give her very full features and bust.

As it your Pride of Life has more animal passion than the Lustis,
              ;' '                                                           ."
                                                     '                            ?
of the Flesh indeed, beyond that of vacuity, she has not much. She
                                                                                       ''
would be gad-about and vain enough, but not pompous and magnifi
                                                                                           ''
cent. Besides, she        low type, and you should have the highest you                           ' is
                    I
                                                            liked your 'Vanity Fair' sketches
                        is
                             a

                                        I
can get. You see criticise freely.

(in words) very much. Embody them in lines, and you will indeed do
well. Do you know Walker's Analysis of Female Beauty                                 It a
                                                        '

valuable book, and has much which would help any man.
   " We are delighted with your books,* and with Mr. Morley's admirable

'Fairy Tales.' Tell Mr. Morley how charmed                        am with his stories,
and that the best of them all, he will receive
               t                                            I       Dick and Doll --
                  I
                                                            it,   '
                       it                                       is
                           a
                                 a
                                            a

                                      if

                                                        is
quite perfect, as a bit of true art and true humanity. Mrs. Kingsley

Iand"    have made        household word                   between us.
         friend of mine,     Mr. Shields,                   trying his hand
      A                                                                      at the  Pilgrim's

Progress,' and the photos of his designs which he has sent me, are

most beautiful.     wish you and he together would illustrate the Fairy

Queen.' You might make standard edition of it. .
                                                                    .

The following letter to the Bishop of the Diocese (Bishop

Sumner) on       a  question of Archidiaconal authority, of which

Mr. Kingsley was very jealous, requires explanation. The printed

questions referred to were not only with regard to the fabric of

the Church and Church accommodation, which was strictly

within the province of the Archdeacon, and to the efficiency

of the schools, weekly and Sunday but required in addition, in
formation as to how the work of the parish was carried on--the
plans of " pastoral visiting of the sick and whole," --the number
of district visitors--whether the visiting was by systematic plan
conducted by communicants or otherwise, &c, &c --what Mis
sionary Meetings were held --how often, and on what plan
&c When " Essays and Reviews " came out at later period,
                                                           ?
                                                                           ;

                                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                                                               ?

and papers were sent round by the Archdeacon for the signatures

of the clergy, Mr. Kingsley again protested against this Archi

diaconal encroachment, as he considered it.

  * " The Nursery Book," " Esop's Fables," " Greedy Jim," &c.                Illustrated by

Charles Uennett.+

      "Old Fairy Tales," by Professor Henry Morley.

                   Archidiaconal Authority.                                                                  79

" My Lord,                                      Eversley, November, 1859.

          I" have decided, after much deliberation, to transmit to you
the enclosed paper of twenty-five questions. I have answered the
Ivenerable the archdeacon's first questions : but as to those following,
am unable to find, from any law-books which I have consulted, that the

archidiaconal authority empowers its holder to make them. Did the

venerable the archdeacon ask these questions of me as a private person,

I should be only too happy to answer them, and to avail myself of his
Igreat experience and zeal in learning how might better work my parish.

But it seems to me (under your lordship's correction) that to answer

these questions would be to allow a precedent, quite harmless under so

genial and liberal a rule as we now enjoy, under you and your arch
deacon, but capable, were he and you removed, of being travestied into

an inquisitorial superintendence of parishes, fatal to that position as free
Irectors, which hold to be one of the greatest safeguards and blessings
Iof the Church of England.
                                 may be mistaken, and frightened at a
Ishadow ; if so, no one will re-assure me sooner than your lordship.

need hardly say that this letter may be    (if  your lordship so wish) shown

to the archdeacon, for whom       entertain the highest respect.                                             need
                               I                  I
hardly say, also --though, alas                             I
                                 !     is  necessary in such times as these --

                                   it

that shall consider your answer as confidential.  am not one of
I
those who, under pretence of reverence for the Church, bring its rulersII

into discredit as far as they can, by dragging them into public printsI

and vexatious law-suits.  have enjoyed for seventeen years under your
                          ; II
                                  I

                                      I

                                                               is,
                                                                  it.

                                                     I
                                                                                           a
                                                                      I
lordship a liberty for which shall be always grateful, and which, dare

to say, have not abused and all ask to know, as private gen

tleman and rector, the law, that may obey         must again add, that

have no wish in this matter save to have my duty clearly defined for

my"  private use.  ask your lordship to return  me the enclosed  paper."
     P.S. May

   When the Archdeacon's circular on " Essays and Reviews "
was sent to him for signature through the Rev. F. C. Blackstone,
then Rural Dean, he writes --
                I
                                                        :
                                                                               '

                                                                                            in
                                                                                                          a
" My Dear Mr. Rural Dean,                       Cambridge, March 27, 1861.

     " The circular which you have sent me puts me                                                           disagree

able position.     should have been most happy to express to you, or to

the archdeacon, my opinion of the Essays and Reviews,' as one

8o Charles Kingsley.

private gentleman to another. But this address, sent by the arch

deacon, and with his sanction, implies a power on the archdeacon's

part officially to ascertain my sentiments on that work. That power

I deny. I know what by law the functions of an archdeacon are. It
Iwas with much pain that saw them gradually, and at last grossly sur

passed by the late archdeacon, the Bishop of Rochester. He sent to me

the last time a set of questions, simply inquisitorial, as to the condition

and working of my parish. Only four out of some twenty-five was I bound
by law to answer. 1 had my doubts as to whether I ought not to answer

those four simply, and return the rest blank; but having reason to
know that he would soon be translated, and being a man of peace, with

                         interior organization  is  none of the worst in
                         up -- fear foolishly.      For it seems to me,
I Ia parish (thank God) whose

the diocese, filled them all

that the independent and quasi-episcopal position of the rector is one

of the most blessed safeguards of the Church of England ; that it saves

the priesthood from slavery to popular fanaticism, slavery to tyranny in

high places, slavery of every kind ; and that the man who, for fear or

favour, allows any higher functionary to encroach on his parochial in

dependence betrays his order and his Church
I" Against all encroachments of superior authority, therefore, shall
Iprotest.
           am Englishman enough to revere and obey the authority
Ihumbly, while yet, as a free man governed by law, bid it remain within
Ifits own legal limits.
                         it be answered to this, that the venerable the

archdeacon does not send round this circular officially, as archdeacon,
but merely as a private person, asking the sense of his clerical brethren,

II fear must demur even more strongly. For the practical effect of

this circular is inquisitorial, and nothing else. It is virtually and

practically asking each gentleman who happens to hold a cure in the
diocese, ' Do you, or do you not, agree with these " Essays and

Reviews ? " ' There is the plain honest fact. It will be known through

Ithe archdeacon to the bishop, and to dozens more, whether or not
have signed, or whether or not A., B., and C. have signed; and

those who have not signed, as the venerable the archdeacon (being a
man of the world) must well know, will be exposed to the obloquy
of the Record, the Morning Advertiser, and any and every other
periodical, as well as to that of their clerical brethren. To draw

inoffensive men (who have never meddled with the ' Essays and
Reviews,' the bishop, or any one else) into such a storm, is a move

Iwhich should not have made against the venerable the archdeacon.
I am sorry that he has thought fit to make it against gentlemen who

have never injured him. That the bishop can wish for such an inqui

Isition of the sentiments of his clergy cannot believe. His rule has

                               Mortality of Children.                                                       81

been ' Live and           let  live    '  and  by that  rule  of unvarying     kindness                     and
                                     ;

liberality he has won the affection of us all, and has made his diocese one

of "thYeouhapaprieesta,t  and the most rapidly     improving  in England. . . .                             this
                                                   thank you  to do so) to show
                          liberty (and I shall

letter to the archdeacon, and to any one else you like."

   In July he attended the first meeting of the Ladies' Sanitary
Association at Willis's Rooms and made the following remark
able speech :--

   " Let me say one thing to the ladies who are interested in this matter.

Have they really seriously considered what they are about to do in
carrying out their own plans ? Are they aware that if their Society
really succeeds they will produce a very serious, some would think a

very dangerous, change in the state of this nation ? Are they aware
that they would probably save the lives of some thirty or forty per cent,
of the children who are born in England, and that therefore they would
cause the subjects of Queen Victoria to increase at a very far more rapid
rate than they do now ? And are they aware that some very wise men

inform us that England is already overpeopled, and that it is an exceed

ingly puzzling question where we shall soon be able to find work or
food for our masses, so rapidly do they increase already, in spite of
the thirty or forty per cent. kind Nature carries off yearly before they

are five years old ? Have they considered what they are to do with
all those children whom they are going to save alive? That has

to be thought of; and if they really do believe, with political economists

now, that over-population is a possibility to a country which has the

Igreatest colonial empire that the world has ever seen, then think they

had better stop in their course and let the children die, as they have

bee"nBduyting.on the other hand,if,            it  seems to them, as confess      it   does to
                                                              is                     is
me, that the most precious thing in the world                       human being, that
                                                                aI

the lowest, and poorest, and most degraded of human beings                                                  better

than all the dumb animals in the world that there an infinite, price
                                                        ;     if it

                                                                   it
                                                                        is is
less capability in that creature, degraded as                 may be -- capability of
                                                                               a

virtue, and of social and industrial use, which,                             taken in time, may

be developed up to pitch, of which at first sight the child gives no
                 ;
hint whatsoever                they believe again, that of all races upon earth now,
                   if

                         a

probably the English race the finest, and that gives not the slightest
                                          ; is
                                                      it
                                                                    it

                                                                           it
                                                                                                         a
sign whatever of exhaustion that seems to be on the whole young

race, and to have very great capabilities in which have not yet been
developed, and above all, the most marvellous capability of adapting

82 Charles Kingsley.

itself to every sort of climate, and every form of life that any nation,

except the old Roman, ever had in the world : if they consider with me

that it is worth the while of political economists and social philosophers
to look at the map, and see that about four-fifths of the globe cannot

be said as yet to be in anywise inhabited or cultivated, or in the state
in which men could make it by any fair supply of population and
industry and human intellect :--then, perhaps, they may think with me
that it is a duty, one of the noblest of duties, to help the increase of the

English race as much as possible, and to see that every child that is

born into this great nation of England be developed to the highest

pitch to which we can develop him, in physical strength and in beauty,
as well as in intellect and in virtue. And then, in that light, it does

Iseem to me, that this Association -- small now, but do hope some day

to become great, and to become the mother Association of many and
valuable children -- is one of the noblest, most right-minded, straight
forward, and practical conceptions that I have come across for some

years.

"We all know the difficulties of Sanitary Legislation. One looks at
Ithem at times almost with despair.
                                     have my own reasons, with which
I will not trouble this meeting, for looking on them with more despair

than ever ; not on account of the government of the time, or any possi

ble government that could come to England, but on account of the

peculiar class of persons in whom the ownership of the small houses has

become more and more vested, and who are becoming more and more,

I had almost said, the arbiters of the popular opinion, and of every

election of parliament. However, that is no business of mine here ;

that must be settled somewhere else : and a fearfully long time, it seems

to me, it will be before it is settled. But, in the mean time, what legis

Ilation cannot do, believe private help, and, above all, woman's help,
can do even better. It can do this ; it can not only improve the condi
Ition of the working-man ; I am not speaking of working-men just at

this time, am speaking of the middle classes, of the man who owns
Ithe house in which the working-man lives.
                                            am speaking, too, of the
Iwealthy tradesman ; am speaking, it is a sad thing to have to say, of

our own class as well as of others. Sanitary Reform, as it is called, or,

in plain English, the art of health, is so very recent a discovery, as all

        it,
                 it
                      is
                        ; is,

                               it
                                 it
                                         is

                                                            I
true physical science that we ourselves and our own class know very

little about and practise very ill. And this Society, do hope, will

bear in mind that  not simply to affect the working-man, not only to

go into the foul alley but  to go to the door of the farmer, to

the door of the shopkeeper, aye, to the door of ladies and gentlemen of

the same rank as ourselves. Women can do in that work what men

                            Wasted Lives.                                                      83

cannot do. Private correspondence, private conversation, private exam

ple, may do what no legislation can do. I am struck more and more
Iwith the amount of disease and death see around me in all classes,

which no sanitary legislation whatsoever could touch, unless you had a
complete house-to-house visitation of a government officer, with powers

to enter every house, to drain and ventilate        I          and not only that, but
                                                          it,
to regulate the clothes and the diet of every inhabitant, and that among

all ranks.  I  can conceive of nothing short of that, which would be

absurd and impossible and most harmful, which would stop the pre
sent amount of disease and death which see around me, without

some such private exertion on the part of women, above all of mothers,

as  IIdo hope will spring from this Institution more and                    more.    of the
        see this, that three persons out of four are utterly                unaware
   "

general causes of their own ill health, and of the ill health of their

children. They talk of their afflictions,' and their misfortunes and,
                            '                    '                                   ;'
                                                                 '                        '

                                                                it
                                                                      is '
    they be pious people, they talk of the will of God,' and of the
if
      I
visitation of God.'  I  do not like to trench upon those matters, but

when read in my Book and in your Book that                                  not the will of our

Father in heaven that one of these little ones should perish,' has
                                                                                     it

come to my mind sometimes with very great strength, that that may

have physical application as well as spiritual one, and that the
      a                                          a

aFather in heaven who does not wish the child's soul to die may possibly
have created that child's body for the purpose of its not dying except in
                                                                                     a
  good old age. Not only in the lower class, but in the middle class,
                                                                                           if
when one sees an unhealthy family, then in three cases out of four,
one takes time, trouble, and care enough, one can, with the help of the

doctor who has been attending them, run the evil home to very
different cause than the will of God and that to stupid neglect, a
                          is                        if is,

                            if                               a
                                              ;
stupid ignorance, or what just as bad, stupid indulgence.
    " Now, do believe that                       a

      I                          those tracts which you are publishing,
         I
which have read, and of which cannot speak too highly, are spread
                                 I

over the length and breadth of the land, and                   women, clergymen's

wives, the wives of manufacturers and of great employers, district visitors

and school mistresses, have these books put into their hands, and are

persuaded to spread them, and to enforce them, by their own example

and by their own counsel, then in the course of few years, this system
                                                    aa
being thoroughly carried out, you would see                    sensible and large

increase in the rate of population.

    When you have saved your children alive, then you must settle what

to do with them. But living dog                  better than                        dead lion
                        a                                                                    ;

                                       !                                                      I

                                   it

                                           is
                                               a

                                                is
                                                     it

                                                                                 a
would rather have the living child, and let take its chance, than let
    return to God -- wasted. Oh
it                                               distressing thing to see children

84 Charles Kingsley.

die. God gives the most beautiful and precious thing that earth can

have, and we just take it and cast it away ; we cast our pearls upon

the dunghill, and leave them. A dying child is to me one of the
most dreadful sights in the world. A dying man, a man dying on

the field of battle, that is a small sight ; he has taken his chance ;
he has had his excitement, he has had his glory, if that will be
any consolation to him ; if he is a wise man, he has the feeling that he

is doing his duty by his country, or by his King, or by his Queen.

It does not horrify or shock me to see a man dying in a good

old age, even though it be painful at the last, as it too often is.

But it does shock me, it does make me feel that the world is indeed
Iout of joint, to see a child die.
                                    believe it to be a priceless boon

to the child to have lived for a week, or a day ; but oh, what has

God given to this thankless earth, and what has the earth thrown
away, in nine cases out of ten, from its own neglect and careless

ness ? What that boy might have been, what he might have done as an

Englishman, if he could have lived and grown up healthy and strong !
I entreat you to bear this in mind, that it is not as if our lower

classes or our middle classes were not worth saving ; bear in mind that
the physical beauty and strength and intellectual power of the middle

classes, --the shopkeeping class, the farming class, the working class --

whenever you give them a fair chance, whenever you give them fair

food and air, and physical education of any kind, prove them to be the
finest race in Europe. Not merely the aristocracy, splendid race as they

are : but down and down and down to the lowest labouring man, to the

navigator ; -- why there is not such a body of men in Europe as our
navigators, and no body of men perhaps have had a worse chance of

growing to be what they are ; and yet see what they have done. See

the magnificent men they become in spite of all that is against them,

all that is drawing them back, all that is tending to give them rickets

and consumption, and all the miserable diseases which children con

tract   ;  see  what  men    they are, and then  conceive what   they might be.  of
           has  been  said,  again, that there   are no more    beautiful races
   "   It

women in Europe than the wives and daughters of our London shop

keepers, and yet there are few races of people who lead a life more in
opposition to all rules of hygiene. But in spite of all that, so wonderful
is the vitality of the English race, that they are what they are ; and

therefore we have the finest material to work upon that people ever

had. And therefore, again, we have the less excuse if we do allow

English people to grow up puny, stunted, and diseased.
" Let me refer again to that word that I used : death --the amount of
Ideath.
                really believe there are hundreds of good and kind people

                         Inexorable Nature.                                                                             85

who would take up this subject with their whole heart and soul if they
were aware of the magnitude of the evil. Lord Shaftesbury told you

just now that there were one hundred thousand preventible deaths in

England every year. So it is. We talk of the loss of human life in

war. We are the fools of smoke and noise ; because there are cannon-

balls and gunpowder, and red coats, and because it costs a great deal

of money, and makes a great deal of noise in the papers, we think,
IWhat so terrible as war ?
                            will tell you what is ten times, and ten
thousand times, more terrible than war, and that is--outraged nature.

War, we are discovering now, is the clumsiest and most expensive of all
games ; we are finding that if you wish to commit an act of cruelty or

folly, the most expensive act that you can commit is to contrive to
shoot your fellow-men in war. So it seems; but Nature, insidious,

inexpensive, silent, sends no roar of cannon, no glitter of arms to do

her work ; she gives no warning note of preparation ; she has no pro

tocol, nor any diplomatic advances, whereby she warns her enemy that
Iwar is coming. Silently,
                            say, and insidiously she goes forth ; no
--she does not even go forth, she does not step out of her path, but

quietly, by the very same laws by which she makes alive, she puts to

death. By the very same laws by which every blade of grass grows,

and every insect springs to life in the sunbeam, she kills, and kills, and
kills, and is never tired of killing, till she has taught man the terrible

lesson he is so slow to learn, that nature is only conquered by obeying

her.

   " And bear in mind one thing more. Man has his courtesies of war,
and his chivalries of war : he does not strike the unarmed man ; he

spares the woman and the child. But Nature is fierce when she is
offended, as she is bounteous and kind when she is obeyed. She spares

neither woman nor child. She has no pity : for some awful, but most

good reason, she is not allowed to have any pity. Silently she strikes

the sleeping child, with as little remorse as she would strike the strong
man, with the musket or the pickaxe in his hand. Ah, would to God

that some man had the pictorial eloquence to put before the mothers of

England the mass of preventible suffering, the mass of preventible agony
of mind and body, which exists in England year after year ! And

would that some man had the logical eloquence to make them under

stand that it is in their power, in the power of the mothers and wives of

the higher class, I will not say to stop it all, -- God only knows that, --
but to stop, as I believe, three-fourths of

   " It in the power, believe, of any woman in this room to save
is
                                                                                                                        in
                I

                           it
                                   is

                                                                  it.

                                                                         It

                                                                                                                    is
three or four lives, human lives, during the next six months.

your power, ladies, and     so easy. You might save several lives

86 Charles Kingsley.

apiece, if you choose, without, I believe, interfering with your daily
business, or with your daily pleasure, or, if you choose, with your daily

frivolities, in any way whatsoever. Let me ask, then, those who are
here, and who have not yet laid these things to heart : Will you let this
meeting to-day be a mere passing matter of two or three hours' interest,
which you shall go away and forget for the next book or the next
amusement ? Or will you be in earnest ? Will you learn -- I say it
openly -- from the noble chairman,0 how easy it is to be earnest in life ;
how every one of you, amid all the artificial complications of English
society in the nineteenth century, can find a work to do, and a noble work
to do, chivalrous work to do, --just as chivalrous as if you lived in
any old fairyland, such as Spenser talked of in his ' Faery Queen;' how
you can be as true a knight-errant, or lady-errant in the present century,
as if you had lived far away in the dark ages of violence and rapine ?
Will you, I ask, learn this ? Will you learn to be in earnest, and use the
position, and the station, and the talent that God has given you, to
save alive those who should live ? And will you remember that it is not
the will of your Father that is in heaven that one little one that plays
in the kennel outside should perish, either in body or in soul ? "

   To Lady Harding, who was also present, and who had estab
lished a Convalescent Home for Sick Children, he writes --

" I thought  that  on  the whole                    EVERSLEY, July 22, 1859.
                                  the Meeting went off well ; but several

went away before the last two speeches, which were dear old South-

Iwood Smith, the father of all us sanitary reformers, and Lankester's.
am going to throw myself into this movement. I am tired of most
things in the world. Of sanitary reform I shall never grow tired. No
one can accuse a man of being sentimental over
                                                 or of doing too
                   a
                                                                            it,

                                                                                                a
much in it. There can be no mistake about the saving of human lives,

and the training up healthy generation. God bless you and all good

ladies who have discovered that human beings have bodies as well as

souls, and that the state of the soul too often depends on that of the

body."

   His work was incessant, and the letters now printed give
most inadequate idea of the labour of his life, of the calls on his
sympathy, and of the different attitudes in which he had to put his

                       The Earl of Shaftcsbury.

                          Influence of Courtesy.                                   87

mind according to the variety of subjects on which he was asked
for counsel, or called upon to do battle ; but as Bishop Forbes
beautifully says of Professor James D. Forbes in words which
truly picture Mr. Kingsley, especially in the concluding sentence,

  I" never saw in any man such fearlessness in the path of duty. The

one question with him was ' Is it right?' No dread of consequences,
and consequences often bitterly felt by him, and wounding his sensitive
nature, ever prevented him from doing that to which conscience
prompted. His sense of right amounted to chivalry." *

   But he seldom returned from speech or lecture without show

ing that so much life had actually gone out of him--not only
from the strain of brain and heart, but from the painful sense of
antagonism which his startling mode of stating things called
out in his hearers, and of which he was keenly conscious at the

time.

   The following extracts from a letter to his wife on the pro
posed site of a new churchyard at Eversley gives an insight into
his courteous method of dealing with his Vestry, and his habit
of trying to see all sides of a matter from the point of view of
others, which was one secret of his influence in his parish.

" About the new churchyard                                                    August, 1859.
                            . . . the people had a wish not to have a
new yard, but to lie at least in the same ground as their fathers -- a most
natural and human feeling which I should always respect and treat

tenderly. As for wanting a piece of my glebe, it was one of the plans

Iwhich proposed myself more than once. Nothing could have been
Imore civil and reasonable than they all were ; and when found that
they had set their hearts on the rick yard, I said no word, but fell in

with it thoroughly, according to the golden rule you can't help doing
                                           is
thing, do willingly and gracefully) which
                                              (if
a                                                 the secret of all good

                  » ? itgovernment. As for some people being ungrateful, and saying rude

things, John Bull always grumbles, and considers  it  his privilege, as            a

free man, to grumble, but he properly treated he will always do
                          if

                                I is
right--and what annoyance have we ever experienced from our people

in this parish                                                             parish
   " We must bear in mind that am not king. That      a
                                                                      is
                                                                             a

                        Memoir of Professor James D. Forbes. (Macmillan.)

88 Charles Kingsley.

corporation of free men, who have by law a right to their own opinion,
and that it is a most blessed thing that it is so, for it is the root of

English strength and self-government ; and I would rather have a dozen

farmers pulling different ways, and all quarrelling with me (which never
happens here) than have been forced by any superior power to do in
the least what they did not like, save where (as in sanitary reform) the
life and health of others are concerned. There is a long sermon for

you."

   The following letter from Mr. Mill was in answer to one from
Mr. Kingsley thanking him for the gift of his " Dissertations and

Discussions," and also for the work on " Liberty," which he says,
" affected me in making me a clearer-headed, braver-minded man

on the spot."

MR. JOHN STUART MILL TO REV. CHARLES KINGSLEY.

                                           Saint Veren, near Avignon, Aug. 6, 1859.
   " Your letter of July 5 reached me long after its date, while wandering
in search of health in the Pyrenees. Allow me, while expressing the

great pleasure it gave me, to say that its humility, as it respects yourself,

seems to me as much beyond the mark as the deference expressed
Itow"arLdasudmaeriexacelaeuddsataon, yothrinbgy
                                                  have the smallest  title to.   very  much
                                               any other viro, has   never been

of an object with me. But to be told by a man who is himself one of

Ithe good influences of the age, and whose sincerity cannot doubt,
that anything I have written makes him feel able to be a still better
Iinfluence, is both an encouragement and a reward --the greatest can

look for, now that a still greater has been taken from me by death.

  " Far from having read none of your books, I have read them nearly
all, and hope to read all of them. I have found in them an earnest
Iendeavour towards many of the objects myself have at heart ; and
Ieven when differed from you it has never been without great interest

and sympathy. There are few men between whom and myself any nearer
approximation in opinion could be more agreeable to me, and that you

should look forward to it gives me a pleasure I could not forbear to

express."

           TO JOHN BULLAR, ESQ.

                                                                     October 25, 1859.
I" have not yet found time to read Mansel, and don't know whether
II shall.
           have made up my own mind about the matter, as you may

                 Theology and Physics.                              89

see from my last volume of sermons, and am not going to alter my tune.
IBut am drawing back into silence, for the purpose of renewing the
Iattack on a new and unexpected side -- that of physical science.
                                                                    have

long begun to see that our advanced physics can only be made to stand

Ion realist ground ; and I am going, trust, to get them up carefully
enough to enforce my own belief some ten years hence. I am in no

hurry. There is plenty of life in me, and your kind fears are groundless.
I had been, by continual creation, using the grey matter of the back of
Ithe brain a little too fast, till it got hot and aching ; and found that the
novel which I had been wearily trying to write was twaddle and a
Ifailure. So have just stopped, and shall write nothing but sermons,
Iand read hard.
                 find my receptive wits as clear as ever they were in
my life, and my digestive wits also. I am only like a spider who has
Ispun all his silk, and must sit still and secrete more. Since stopped

writing this last month my head has got cool, and the ache in my limbs
Igone off, and this bitter bracing weather suits me perfectly.
                                                                    believe

"...a week's real north easter would make me young again.

           I see more and more that we shall work no deliverance till we
Iteach people a little more common physical knowledge, and hail the

Prince Consort's noble speech at Aberdeen as a sign that he sees his
Iway clearly and deeply.
                               have refused this winter to lecture on any

thing but the laws of health ; and shall try henceforth to teach a sound

theology through physics."

                 TO FREDERIC SHIELDS, ESQ.

                               EVErsley, Nov. 29, 1859.
I" Your letter is sensible and pertinent to the matter in hand, and
I Itell you at once what can.
                               think that you much overrate the disuse

of armour in Bunyan's day. When the ' Pilgrim's Progress ' was written

it was much gone out, but in Bunyan's boyhood he must have seen

everywhere old armour hanging up in every gentleman or burgher's

house (he would to his dying day), which had been worn and used

by the generation before him. Allowing, as we must, in every human
Ibeing for the reverence for early impressions,
                                                     think his mind would

have pictured to him simply the Elizabethan and James I.'s armour,
which he saw hanging in all noble houses, and in which he may have, as

a boy, seen gentlemen joust, for tilting was not extinct in his boyhood.

As for this  co-existing with  slop breeches (what   we now   call  knicker
bockers are                    think you will find,  as now,  that  country
             nothing else), I

fashions changed slowlier than town. The puffed trunk-hose of 1580-

1600 co-existed with the finest cap-a-pied armour of proof. They gradu-

90 Charles Kingsley.

ally in the country, where they were ill made, became slops, *. e.,

knickerbockers. By that time almost loose and short cavalier breeks had

superseded them in the court --but what matter ? The change is far
less than that during 1815-1855. The anachronism of putting complete
armour by the side of one drest as Christian is in the frontispiece of the
original edition of the ' Pilgrim's Progress ' is far less than putting you

by the side of a Life-Guards' officer in 1855 ; far less, again, than putting

a clod of my parish, drest as he would have been in a.d. iioo, insniock

frock and leather gaiters, by the side of you or me. Therefore use without
fear the beautiful armour of the later years of Elizabeth and the beginning

of James and all will be right, and shock nobody. As for shields,
should use the same time. Shields were common among serving-men in
       I.                                   a
            I.,
                                                  I
                                  a                            a
                                         a                                                '
                                                                        I
James     There are several in the Tower, fitted with pistol to be fired

from the inside, and long spike. All are round.  believe that sword

and buckler play' was common thing among the country folk in

Bunyan's time. Give your man, therefore, circular shield, such as he
would have seen in his boyhood, or even later, among the retainers of
noble houses. As for the cruelties practised on Faithful, -- for the sake

of humanity don't talk of that. The Puritans were very cruel in the

North American colonies horribly cruel, though nowhere else. But in
                            ;

Bunyan's time the pages of Morland, and others, show us that in Pied

mont, not to mention the Thirty Years' War in Germany, horrors were

being transacted which no pen can describe nor pencil draw. Dear

old Oliver Cromwell stopped them in Piedmont, when he told the Pope

that unless they were stopped English cannon should be heard at the
gates of the Vatican. But no cruelty to man or woman that you dare

draw can equal what was going on on the Continent from Papist to

Protestant during Bunyan's lifetime.        am very unwell, and forbid to

   " have now told you all can.
I
                 I
                       I
                           :I

                                     I
                                                       II

                                                             I
work. Therefore cannot tell you more, but what send, send with

all good wishes to any man who will be true to art and to his

author."

   Some years later Mr. Shields sent some fine photographs from
his illustrations of the " Pilgrim's Progress," which have since
been published, and some still more remarkable ones of Defoe's
" History of the Plague of London," to Mr. Kingsley, to which

the following letters refer

   " Business has hitherto                       EversLey, January II, 1862.
and the drawings. Now
                            prevented my acknowledging your kind letter
                               have time to say that cannot sufficiently

                   The Duty that lies Nearest.                                                             gi

admire them ; with strong individuality and varied imagination, here is

a real beauty of form, without which I care for nothing. It seems to

me that you are about to become one of the finest designers in Europe,

and I trust that you will spare no time or pains to make yourself such.
I think the period which you have fixed is quite the right one. It may
be a little too late, but it is the sikle Louis XIV., which endured

through Cromwell's time, and it is the world against which Bunyan and

George Fox both testified. I hope to see and hear more of you. You

must come down and see me here in the course of the spring or

"...summer."                I is            God has given you great talent, whereby
              The plain fact                              is
you may get an honest livelihood. Take that as God's call to you, andis,a
follow out. As for the sins of youth, what says the 130th Psalmit

 If Thou, Lord, were extreme to mark what done amiss, who could
'                                                                                             it

                                                                                                                  ?
abide  it      But there mercy with Him, therefore shall He be feared.

           ?'

And how to fear God know not better than by working on at the

speciality which He has given us, trusting to Him to make of use to
His creatures -- He needs us-- and
               if                                   if  He does not, perhaps so much

the better for us. He can do His work without our help. Therefore

fret not nor be of doubtful mind. But just do the duty which lies
nea"restsh--owwehdichyosueremdrsawtoingmse
                                            to  be  to draw as you                            are drawing now.
                                            to  my  friend Bennett,                           who lately illustrated
   'I
                                    I

                                          I
                                                                                                    a
                                                                  I
the Pilgrim's Progress,' and without rivalry or jealousy he was as

tonished and delighted at them, and said he knew great deal more

excellent  work of yours."    the           Plague  have  come                                safely, and  may say
           photographs of
   " Your

without flattery, have astonished us by their force, breadth, and pathos.

They indicate a great development of your powers in the last year or

two, and promise to prove you, what have long hoped you might
be--the English Gustave Dord
                                                    only hope the public will be of the

same mind. We shall be always glad to hear of your good fortune."

   The correspondents met at length, at the Cloisters, West

minster, in 874, as old friends, with deeper sympathies than on
   a

                           1
                                                           ;
                                                                                           :

                                                                      is
the mere matter of art and when sending the foregoing letters

to the editor, Mr. Shields, (whose genius                                                     now recognised not

only at Manchester, where an exhibition of his pictures, followed

by banquet in his honour, took place last year, but in other

quarters), speaks thus of Mr. Kingsley --

                                                                                   Blackpool, 1876.
   " His helpful words -- how helpful to me at the period of his first

92 Charles Kingsley.

letter-- I could be eloquent in telling, since they were the first words of
kindly help which fell to my lot from one whose sympathy I prized, and

I felt drawn into most grateful and loving communion with his generous

nature, who could, when in ill health, write so large an answer to the

Iinquiries of a stranger ; and the regret which for long years past have

felt that the privilege of his personal acquaintance, offered in the invita
tion to Eversley in '6 a, proved outside my means to embrace, deepens
most sadly now, when the opportunity is lost here for ever.

   " I am only glad that I had even so brief an interview as that in
London, and I often walk again with him round the high walled enclosure

of peace, on which you looked out at the Abbey, with the beautiful

Westminster School on its right ; and I recall the sermon on the succeed

ing Sunday, when, by a strange coincidence with one of his letters, the

Itext was the 130th Psalm. I had always an ideal of a preacher, which

he alone, of all men ever knew, fulfilled. No laboured essay, full of
florid metaphor and vainglory, but himself, swallowed up in the awe and
responsibility of his great theme ; he impressed me as one who through
trouble had been brought near to God, too near to think of self. . . . ."

TO LORD ROBERT MONTAGU.

" Don't talk about the Thames.                 Eversley, July 7, 1859.

                                 I have thought and written much

on it some years since, but have given it up in despair. There is no

adequate demand for the sewage.     Till you can awaken farmers,

nothing can be done. My last dream; to have the sewage conveyed

along the line of rail by pipes, giving the railway companies an interestis is,

therein, and so to fertilize, especially the barrens of Surrey and Berk?

shire. But while railways are ruining themselves by frantic competition

they have neither time nor money for such projects                            What it, I
think you should do, in order to produce any effect,
                                                         I          to ascertain --
                                                                is
1. What demand for liquid sewage there among the farmers of the neigh

bourhood of London. Have guano and superphosphate really beaten

sewage out of the field by superior facility of carriage? suspect they have

isfor the time being; there no chance of the phosphatic beds of the green-

sand being exhausted for many years or the guano islands either. 2. What
facilities or hindrances have been given to the carriage of liquid sewage
by the great metropolitan sewers now making This do not know, and
                                                         I

this you must ascertain. My scheme has always been to have arterial

pipes along the railway lines. But the railway companies have no

money to start such arteries, and private companies could not do

unless they were sure of a demand from the farmers contiguous to the

       Idleness from deficient Vitality.                    93

Ilines, which demand is in nubibus. What more I can tell you I will
gladly tell, as your plan matures.  do not quite understand what sort

of resolution you intend to lay before the House : any which would ask
for a fresh commission ? "

  " As to revivals I don't wonder at revivalists taking to drink. Cal

vinism has become so unreal -- so afraid of itself-- so apologetic about

its own peculiar doctrines, on which alone it stands, that revivals now

must be windy flarings up in the socket of the dying candle. All

revivals of religion which I ever read of, which produced a permanent

effect, owed their strength to the introduction of some new element,

derived from the actual modern consciousness, and explaining some

fresh facts in or round man ; e. g., the revivals of the Franciscans and

Dominicans --those of the Reformation and of Wesley.
   " We may see such things ere we die. At present revivals are mere

threshings of the old chaff, to see if a grain of corn be still there.

                TO JOHN BULLAR, ESQ.

                                    Eversley, November 19, 1869.

" You are the kindest of men. ITwo letters come ere answer one.
But I have been hunted from pillar to post. There really is very little
the matter with me, except what is called in country fellows ' idleness.'

I never call it so. If they say to me, ' Jem is a slack hand, he won't do
no work ; and if he tries, he haint no heart, but gies out at mowing or
pitching like any chicken,' then I answer, ' Very well ; you leave Jem
alone : he won't live long if you hurry him !' Whereon they ask 'And
what's wrong wi' he, then ?' To which I answer, solemnly, ' Deficient
vitality.' --which shuts them up ; and is also a true and correct answer,
I/am a slack hand now.  can't think ; I can't write ; I can't run ; I
I Ican't ride -- have neither wit, nerve, nor strength for anything ; and if
I Itry get a hot head, and my arms and legs begin to ache.
Iten years ago : worse than now.                            was so

                                    have learnt by that last attack, and
have, thank God, pulled up in time. IDo not fancy that am going to
Ifret myself about anything.
                                    have infinite power left of doing two

things, which are generally necessary to earthly salvation, viz., eating

I Iand sleeping, and to them am paying great attention. When tried
Ito work, and yet could not, had over and above a nasty craving for
Ialcohol--for more wine than have usually found necessary to digest
Imy"
food.  Since     have left my brain alone, that craving is going off.
       letters  are full of practical wisdom, as usual. Almost the
Your

best hint in them is the folly of trying to cure mental fatigue by bodily.

I tried that experiment a fortnight ago, and was miserably ill for three

94 Charles Kingsley.

Idays.       had used up the grey matter of my brain by thought (my head

feels at times like a pumpkin), and then had used up still more by violent

volition, running to hounds on foot, and leaping hedges and ditches for
Ifive hours, calling the same fresh air and exercise !
                                                        was a great fool,
and found it out. No, my dear Bullar, I will be a pig for twelve months.

There is nothing in my parish to raise me out of the state of pigdom ;

Isave three services for Sunday, to help in which shall get a curate ;

while as for writing, &c., the world got on tolerably without me for six

thousand years (I hold for a great many more), and therefore there is

Ia fair presumption that it will get on without me for one. One thing

should like, that you would come and stay with me-- on the under

standing that neither of us is to speak a word of sense during the visit.
Oh life -- life, life ! why do folks cling to this half existence, and call

that life ?
" S. G. O. was talking to me the other day of your father, and saying
Ithat he was one of the noblest and best men he had ever met.
                                                               wish
I could see him once ! I like to look in the faces of strong good men,
and to hear the tones of their voice. I don't mind what they say. It
is the men themselves I love to contemplate. And I know one more
strong good man than I did      and that is the Prince Consort. I have

fallen in love with that man."

             TO , ESQ.

                                                                                 EVERSLEY, March 16, 1859.

" I wish you would give me the chapter and page in which Sweden-

Iborg handles your text (Matt. xxii. 24-28). There are many noble

and beautiful things in that text-book of his, and should like to see
what he makes of so puzzling a passage. It seems to me that we

must look at it from the stand-point of the Sadducees, and therefore

....of our Lord as condescending to them. It is a hideous case in itself.
        I conceive the Jews had no higher notion than this of the
relation of the sexes. Perhaps no eastern people ever had. The con

ception of a love-match belongs to our Teutonic race, and was our

heritage (so Tacitus says with awe and astonishment) when we were
heathens in the German forests. You will find nothing of it in Scrip

ture, after the first chapter of Genesis, save a glimpse thereof (but only
a glimpse) in St. Paul's Epistle to the Ephesians. To me, who believe the

Gospel of St. John, and believe therefore that Jesus Christ, the Word of
God, was the light and life of my German forefathers, as well as of the
IJews, there is nothing strange in this.
                                          only say, Christ has taught us

something about wedlock, which He did not teach the Jews; that He taught

          Identity of Person and an Eternal Union.                                                            95

it is proved by its fruits, for what has produced more of nobleness, more

of practical good, in the human race, than the chivalrous idea of wedlock,

which our Teutonic race holds, and which the Romance or Popish races

Iof Europe have never to this day grasped with any firm hold ? Therefore

all can say about the text is . . . (about marriage in the world to

come) that it has nought to do with me and my wife. I know that
Iif immortality is to include in my case identity of person, shall feel to
Iher for ever what feel now. That feeling may be developed in ways
which I do not expect ; it may have provided for it forms of expression

very different from any which are among the holiest sacraments of life :
Iof that  take no care. The union I believe to be as eternal as my own
Isoul.
          have no rule to say in what other pairs of lovers it may or may
Inot be eternal.
                  leave all in the hands of a good God ; and can so

far trust His Son Jesus Christ our Lord, as to be sure that He knew the
best method of protesting against the old Jewish error (which Popish
casuists still formally assert) that the first end of marriage is the pro
creation of children, and thereby laid the true foundation for the eman

cipation of woman.
   " Let neither Swedenborg, nor any other man, argue you out of the

scientific canon, that to understand the spirit of Scripture, or any

other words, you must first understand the letter. If the spirit is to be

found anywhere, it is to be found by putting yourself in the place of the

listeners, and seeing what the words would have meant to them.

Then take that meaning as an instance (possibly a lower one) of an
universal spiritual law, true for all men, and may God give you wisdom

for the process of induction by which that law is to be discovered."

The next letter, on the Eternity of Marriage, written some

years before, may fitly come in here with scattered extracts on

the same subject.

 "... In heaven they neither marry nor are given in marriage,

but are as the angels of God! --And how are the angels of God in

heaven ? Is there no love among them ? If the law which makes

two beings unite themselves, and crave to unite themselves, in body,

soul, and spirit, be the law of earth -- of pure humanity -- so far
   ;

      if
                      if

                                                                                                         if,
from being established by the Fall, this law has been the one from
which the Fall has made mankind deflect most in every possible

way       the restoration of purity and the restoration of this law
                  love be of the Spirit--the vastest and simplest
are synonymous;
exercise of will of which we can conceive -- then why should not

this law hold in the spiritual world as well as in the natural? In

96 Charles Kingsley.

heaven they neither marry nor are given in marriage ; but is not mar

riage the mere approximation to a unity which shall be perfect in

heaven ? Read what Milton says of angels' love in Books VI. and VII.
and take comfort. What if many have been alone on earth ? may they

not find their kindred spirit in heaven, and be united to it by a tie still

deeper than marriage ? And shall we not be re-united in heaven by

that still deeper tie ? Surely on earth God has loved, Christ the Lord

has loved --some more than others -- why should we not do the same in

heaven, and yet love all ? Here the natural body can but strive to
express its love -- its desire of union. Will not one of the properties of

the spiritual body be, that it will be able to express that which the
natural body only tries to express ? Is this a sensual view of heaven ?

then are the two last chapters of the Revelations most sensual. They
tell, not only of the perfection of humanity, with all its joys and wishes
and properties, but of matter ! They tell of trees, and fruit, and rivers

--of gold and gems, and all beautiful and glorious material things.

Isaiah tells of beasts and birds and little children in that new earth.

Who shall say that the number of living beings is filled up ? Why is

heaven to be one vast lazy retrospect ? Why is not eternity to have

action and change, yet both, like God's, compatible with rest and immu

tability ? This earth is but one minor planet of a minor system : are
there no more worlds ? Will there not be incident and action spring
ing from these when the fate of this world is decided ? Has the Evil

Spirit touched this alone ? Is it not self-conceit which makes us think

the redemption of this earth the one event of eternity? The same

feeling (sensuality, which is self-love) prompted men of old to fancy
that this globe was the centre of the universe.

"These are matters too high for us, therefore we will leave them

alone ; but is flatly denying their existence and possibility leaving them

alone? No ! it is intruding into them more conceitedly, insolently, and

sensually than speculating on them by the carnal understanding-- like

the Mystics, Platonists, and Gnostics. Calvin was a more conceited

mystic than Henry More. It is more humble, more rational, to believe
the possibility of all things than to doubt the possibility of one thing.
Reason is the deadly fire, not only of mysticism and credulity, but of

unbelief and bigotry ! . . . .

   " And what if earthly love seems so delicious that all change in it

would seem a change for the worse ? Shall we repine ? What does

reason (and faith, which is reason exercised on the invisible) require of
us, but to conclude that, if there is change, there will be something
                        Here are two   truths --
bet"ter1stt.heBreod? y  is that which  expresses  the spirit  to which  it is joined ;

              The Restoration of the Body.                                   97

therefore, the more perfectly spiritual the body, the better it will express

the   spirit  joined to
       and.   The expression
   "               it, ? it.       of love  produces  happiness       therefore, the
                               ?' a
                                                              !
                                                                  ;
more perfect the expression the greater the happiness And, therefore,

bliss greater than any we can know here awaits us in heaven. And

does not the course of nature point to this What else the meaningis
of the gradual increase of love on earth What else the meaning of is
                                            ?
                                                 ?

old age when the bodily powers die, while the love increases. What
      I' ?
does that point to, but to restoration of the body when mortality            . is
swallowed up of life Is not that mortality of the body sent us merci

fully by God, to teach us that our love spiritual, and therefore will be
                                            is
                                                           ?
able to express itself in any state of existence to wean our hearts that

we may learn to look for more perfect bliss in the perfect body . . .
                                                                      ?

Do not these thoughts take away from all earthly bliss the poisoning

thought, all this must end           Ay, end but only end so gradually that
                                            !

we shall not miss           and the less perfect union on earth shall be

replaced in heaven by perfect and spiritual bliss and union, incon

ceivable because perfect

   " Do undervalue earthly bliss
the sacrament of higher union
              is a                            No enhance when make
                      it !                  Will not these thoughts give more
                                     !      !I                        if in I
                                        ?
                                                        !                             it
exquisite delight, will       not tear off the thorn from every rose and
                                                     I
sweeten every nectar cup to perfect security of blessedness, this life,it
to feel that there more in store for us -- that all expressions of love
here are but dim shadows of a union which shall be perfect, we will

but work here, so as to work out our salvation

" My views of second marriage are peculiar.                   consider thatit it
                                                                                  is
allowed for the hardness of men's hearts, but from the beginning was

not so, and will not be so, some day, when the might of love becomes         is
generally appreciated perhaps that will never be, till the earth
                         !

renewed."

VOL. H.


                  CHAPTER XX.

                                                                 1860.
                                                             AGED 41.
PROFESSORSHIP OF MODERN HISTORY-- DEATH OF HIS FATHER AND OF MRS.

      ANTHONY FROUDE -- PLANTING THE CHURCHYARD-- VISIT TO IRELAND-
      FIRST SALMON KILLED --WET SUMMER-- SERMON ON WEATHER -- LETTER
      FROM SIR CHARLES LYELL --Correspondence -- RESIDENCE IN CAMBRIDGE
      -- INAUGURAL LECTURE IN THB SENATE HOUSE --VISITS TO BARTON HALL
      --LETTER FROM SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                                                                                          H2

" The best reward for having wrought well already, is to have more to do : and he

that has been faithful over a few things, must find his account in being made ruler

over many things. That is the true and heroical rest, which only is worthy of gentle

men, and sons of God. And for those who, either in this world, or the world to

come, look for idleness, and hope that God shall feed them with pleasant things, as it
Iwere with a spoon, Amyas,
                            count them cowards and base, even though they call

themselves saints and elect . . . Do thou thy duty like a man to thy country, thy

Queen, and thy God, and count thy life a worthless thing, as did the holy men of

old."

                            WESTWARD Ho ! Chapter vii.

        CHAPTER XX.

  THE Regius professorship of Modern History at Cambridge had
not been filled up since the resignation of Sir James Stephen, and
some of Mr. Kingsley's friends wished to see him in the vacant
chair. It was mentioned to Lord Palmerston, then Prime

Minister. On the 9th of May he received a letter from Lord
Palmerston asking him if he was willing to undertake the duties
of the post ; he accepted with extreme diffidence, and went up

to the University in the spring to take his M.A. degree, which he

had not been able to afford as yet. Dr. Whewell, who was then
Master of Trinity, received him most kindly. Having been one

of those who had disapproved most emphatically of "Alton

Locke " when it was first published, his generosity on this occa
sion, and his steady friendship from that time up to the date of

his own death in 1866, laid the new Professor under a deep debt
of gratitude. The feelings with which he re-visited Cambridge

are told in a letter to his wife from Trinity Lodge.

"... It is like a dream.        TRINITY, CAMBRIDGE, May 22, i860.

                          Most beautiful -- and London buildings
I Ihaving been the only ones have seen for years, am struck with the

sharpness and richness of the stone work, and the exquisite clearness of
the atmosphere. My windows look into Trinity Walks -- the finest

Igreen walks in England, now full of flags and tents for a tulip show.
Ihad a pleasant party of men to meet me last night. After breakfast

go to Magdalene, then to the Senate House ; after luncheon to this

....flower show, then to dinner in hall at Magdalene ; and back as early as
I can.  All this is so very awful and humbling to me. I cannot
                                      "
bear to think of my own unworthiness

   His experience of life this year was new, varied, and often
very sad. His father, to whom he had ever been the most duti

IO2 Charles Kingsley.

ful and devoted son, died early in the winter, and from that

hour till her death in 1873, the care of his widowed mother was

one of his first and most nobly fulfilled duties. He writes to

his old college friend, the Rev. James Montagu, from Chelsea

rectory in February :

 "... Forgive me for my silence, for I and my brothers are now

wearily watching my father's death-bed --long and lingering. Miserable

to see life prolonged when all that makes it worth having (physically) is

gone, and never to know from day to day whether the end is to come

in six hours or six weeks. But he is all right and safe, and death for

him   would  be a pure and simple blessing.  life.  Better die in the
   "  James  Montagu, never pray for a long

flower of one's age, than go through what I have seen him go through in
Ithe last few days. shall come to you at Shoeburyness ; but when, God

knows."

   The epitaph he wrote over his father's grave in Brompton
Cemetery speaks his appreciation of that father.

                                          " Here lies
                                          All that was mortal

                                                            of
                                             CHARLES KINGSLEY,
                  Formerly of Battramsley House, in the New Forest, Hants,
                               And lately of St. Luke's Rectory, Chelsea.
                      Endowed by God with many noble gifts of mind and body,
                           He preserved through all vicissitudes of fortune

                            A loving heart and stainless honour ;

                                And having won in all his various Cures
                                 The respect and affection of his people,
                          And ruled the Parish of Chelsea well and wisely

                                        For more than twenty years,
                He died peacefully in the fear of God and in the faith of Christ

                                      On the 29th of February, 1860,
                                                         Aged 78 years,

                          With many friends, and not an enemy on earth ;
                                Leaving to his children as a precious heritage
                               The example of a Gentleman and a Christian."

  To Mr. Maurice he writes --

                                                                                             CHELSEA, March, 1860.

  " I have been so hunted backwards and forwards to Eversley and
hither, upon trying business at both places, that I have not had time to

                         Goites-acker.        103

thank you for your kind and comforting letter. My poor dear mother

broke down frightfully for a day or two after the funeral ; but the

necessity of exertion is keeping her up now.  is here, as a minister

ing angel, doing everything for her, and we hope in a week or two to

get her down to her quiet little cottage at Eversley, to end her days
with us. Ah, Mr. Maurice, such times as these bring conviction of sin

with them. How every wrong word and deed toward that good old

Iman, and every sorrow caused him, rise up in judgment against one,
Iand how one feels that right doing does not atone for wrong doing.

have this comfort, that he died loving me, and satisfied with me and

my small success, and happy in his children, as he said again and again.
But if death --at least the death of a rational human being -- be not an

ugly damnable solecism, even in a good old age, then I know not what
Iis. shall see and hear you, please God, Sunday afternoon. Remember

me."

   He was called away from Chelsea to be present at the enlarge
ment and consecration of his churchyard at Eversley, and to

meet his bishop (Dr. Sumner), whose coming, as he had never
been in Eversley before, was a great event. The new ground gave
the Rector the opportunity of planting the whole with ever

greens, for it had long been his wish to make his churchyard an

arboretum, and gradually to gather together rare shrubs and

trees, so that it should be truly a Gottes-acker in a double sense.

He writes to his wife, then at Chelsea :

                                                                         Eversley, March 10.

"... I can understand your being unhappy leaving us and this
delicious place again. It does look too blessed for a man to spend his
Ilife in.
           have been making it blessed-er in the last thirty hours, with
Ia good will ; for
                    and B. (his churchwarden) have been working

with our own hands, as hard as the four men we have got on. We

have planted all the shrubs in the churchyard. We have gravelled

the new path with fine gravel, and edged it with turf; we have levelled,

delved, planned, and plotted ; and pressed into the service that most

cockney of good fellows  , making him work like a horse, in carry

ing water. M. is trimming up unsightly graves, and we shall be all right

and ready for the Bishop by Monday

  " Altogether I am delighted at the result and feel better, thanks to two
days' hard work with pick and spade, than I have done for a fortnight.
So never mind about me. . . . but I cannot bear working and planning

104 Charles Kingsley.

at improvements without you ; it seems but half a life ; and I am leaving
everything I can (considering the bishop on Monday) to be done after

you come    back.    Oh  ! when shall we settle down here in peace and see
the spring  come   on ?
                         Patience, though. -- It wants three weeks to spring,

and we may, by God's blessing, get back here in time to see the spring

unfold around us, and all mend and thrive. After all, how few troubles
we have ! for God gives with one hand, if He takes away with the
                   I found a new competitor for the corner of the new
other
ground, just under our great fir tree, which I had always marked out for

you and me, in dear old Bannister (his churchwarden, a farmer), who had

Ibeen telling M. that he wanted to be buried close to me. So have

kept a corner for ourselves ; and then he comes at our feet, and by our
            Ifinsists on lying. Be it so.
side                                       we could see the children
grown up, and the History* written, what do I need, or you either,

below?"

   The vacant space by the side of his own proposed grave was
soon to have a tenant he little dreamt of, for in the spring
another heavy sorrow came --and one to whom he had been
more than a brother in some of the most important circum
stances of her life for the last sixteen years, his wife's sister,
Charlotte, wife of Anthony Froude, was laid there under the
shade of the fir trees she loved so well. Her grave was to him
during the remainder of his own life a sacred spot, where he

would go almost daily to commune in spirit with the dead, where

flowers were always kept blooming, and where on the Sunday

morning he would himself superintend the decorations --the cross
and wreaths of choice flowers placed by loving hands upon it.

    Death was very busy that year among those he loved, and
before twelve months were over three of those who stood around

that grave, a brother, a nephew, and a friend, John Ashley
Warre, Charles Grenfell, and Mr. John Parker, were all called
away into the unseen world.

   The latter, publisher, of West Strand, London, who had been
fellow student with Charles Kingsley at King's College, Lon
don, and with whom he had renewed his old intimacy at the
publication of the " Saint's Tragedy," was a constant visitor at

   * Before his appointment at Cambridge he had begun a "School History of Eng
land," of which only the three first chapters were written.

            Divine and Human Morality.                           105

the Rectory. At Mr. Parker's house in London he had met the

very best literary society whenever he had an evening to spare
away from home, and his death made a great gap in the knot

of remarkable men who had gathered round him. In a letter
to one of these, Mr. Skelton, Mr. Kingsley thus speaks of him :--

   " I trust if you come to London you will take courage to come forty

miles further to Eversley. You will meet there, not only for your own
sake but for John Parker's, a most cordial welcome. Before our window
lies the grave of one whom he adored, my wife's favourite sister. He
was at her funeral. The next funeral which her widowed husband and

I attended was his : Froude nursed him like a brother till the moment

of death. His was a great soul in a pigmy body ; and those who know

how I loved him, know what a calumny it is to say that I preach ' mus

cular Christianity.' "

            TO JOHN BULLAR, ESQ.

                                                    Eversley, i860.

   " I was delighted to see your handwriting again               About the
question with which you begin, my whole opinion is this -- that intellectual

comprehension of God is impossible, and that, therefore, all theories which,

like the Calvinistic one, attribute time, foreknowledge, &c, to Him, are,

if not wrong, still mere metaphors, never to be pressed so far as to make

them (as Calvinism does make them) the grounds for any conclusions as
to God's moral acts, or moral essence. But if we do that ; if (as Mansel
seems to have done) we argue : Because man cannot comprehend God,

and impute to God his own intellectual conditions, therefore he cannot

either impute to Him his moral conditions ; and God's justice is nothing

like man's justice, or God's love like man's love ; I can only answer,
Ithen care not for such a God, or for any philosophy about Him. Not

only theology, but morality becomes impossible. Man cannot know

God intellectually, but the Bible says that he can know Him spiritually
-- which I interpret to mean morally ; and how, unless by attributing to
God a morality identical with his own? A justice like his own, a love
Ilike his own ? Here must take my stand, or join the Positivists.
I
   have no  other escape. But enough of this.
            getting all right now, by dint of much  riding with  my boy,
   " I am

who is home for Easter. Riding has a specific effect on me, both on

Ibody and mind, and I hardly know how should keep well without it.

I hope you have not suffered, like me, with this gale. Two of the

Iprettiest trees on my lawn (and have some very pretty ones) came

106 Charles Kingsley.

down with a crash this morning, and I have had the melancholy pleasure

Iand exercise of dismembering ancient friends. When spring is coming,

  cannot guess. My hope is that this gale will ' blow the weather out,'

Ias sailors say ; and that we shall have a sudden turn to thunder, heat, and
rain.  have seen this happen several times, just at this season. . . .
I" am utterly astonished at your courage in letting your wife go to
IEgypt.
            have just let mine go to Devonshire without me, to nurse a
sick sister, and I feel like a cat without its skin."

   After he had taken his M.A. degree he writes from the north
to his wife --

  " I have been thinking and praying a good deal over my future life.
IA new era has opened for me : feel much older, anxious, and full of
Iresponsibility ; but more cheerful and settled than have done for a

long time. All that book writing and struggling is over, and a settled

position and work is before me. Would that it were done, the children

settled in life, and kindly death near to set one off again with a new start
Isomewhere else.
                  should like the only epitaph on our tomb to be

Thekla's :

                           ' We have lived and loved,'
                           ' We live and love. ' "

"... I had a delightful day yesterday, in most beautiful scenery --

limestone cliffs and a stream which vanished underground into caves,
and re-appeared by caves on the other side of the hill -- wonders under
ground, no doubt, if one could but get there -- all sorts of beautiful lime-
                           I long to be back with you."
plants, but not in flower

   No book was written this year, his spare time being given to

the preparation of his Inaugural Lecture at Cambridge, and the
course of Lectures which was to follow it. By command of the

Prince Consort, he preached the annual sermon for the Trinity
House, of which H.R.H. was then Master. He preached also at
Whitehall, Windsor Castle, and St. James's. He was made

chaplain to the Civil Service Volunteers ; he lectured at War
minster and Bury St. Edmund's. A few weeks' rest in Ireland

with Mr. Froude, helped him greatly in preparing for his career
in Cambridge, and at Markree Castle he killed his first salmon,

a new and long coveted experience in life.

                     The First Salmon Killed.                                                                    107

                                     MARKREE CASTLE, SLIGO, July 4, 1860.

    I". . . .  have done the deed at last--killed a real actual live

salmon, over five pounds weight, and lost a whopper from light hooking.
ifHere they are by hundreds, and just as easy to catch as trout ; and
the wind would get out of the north, I could catch fifty pounds of them

...in a day. This place is full of glory -- very lovely, and well kept up.
    I" But  am haunted by the human chimpanzees I saw along that
I Ihundred miles of horrible country.
                                               don't believe they are our fault.

believe there are not only many more of them than of old, but that they

are happier, better, more comfortably fed and lodged under our rule than

they ever were. But to see white chimpanzees is dreadful ; if they were

black, one would not feel it so much, but their skins, except where
Itanned by exposure, are as white as ours. Tell Rose will get her
Iplants.
            have got the great Butterwort already ; very fine. . . ."

                                                                                                                                                                             5-

    I" had magnificent sport this morning -- five salmon killed (biggest,

seven pounds), and another huge fellow ran right away to sea, carrying

me after him waist deep in water, and was lost, after running 200

yards, by fouling a ship's hawser ! There is nothing like                                                        The ex
            is

                                                              I
                                                                                                            it.
citement       maddening, and the exertion very severe.    am going to

               hours, having been up           at          Thank my mother for
               kiss the chicks for me
.....sleep for two                                 four.
                                                        "
her letter, and

                                                           WESTPORT, Sunday.

    " A line from Westport, co. Mayo,              pretty wooded town, much
               I
                     is I
                                           I; a
better than anything have seen, with the magnificent cone of Croagh

Patrick (the pilgrimage mountain) towering over all. It                                                          lovely
                                                           a

                                                              it it
                                                                             is

                                                                                    aa

                                                                                    It
morning, and the folk are going into chapel across street with stream

and two rows of trees, just like Aix or any German town. But the

country which  came through yesterday moves me even to tears.

    a land of ruins and of the dead. You cannot conceive to English
is
eyes the first shock of ruined cottages and when goes on to whole
   iIt, it
hamlets, the effect  most depressing.              suppose had to be done,

with poor-rates twenty shillings in the pound, and the people dying of

starvation, and the cottier system had to be stopped but what an
                                                           in

                                                                ;
                                                                          a

                                                                                                       !
amount of human misery each of those unroofed hamlets stands for

Still had to be done. There are magnificent farms growing up now,

with roots and grasses, instead of the horrid potato       the black bog.

The view of Nephin Monastery, across Rock Conn and the bogs last

night, was the finest thing ever saw in my life. Ihave seen painting
                     I
of                          I                  at once. We shall be with Henry

                                           it
            am sure, for recognised

108 Charles Kingsley.

Glyn at the Falls Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning. We have
a note to Lord Sligo here, but shan't use it ; and we have got Mr.
Herbert's fishing at Mucross, which they say is the best in Ireland."

                                     The Falls of Kenmare, July 15, i860.

" Very happy here. There is no fishing, but there will be to-morrow,

for the water is coming down again, and we are off early to a famous

lake    Henry (Captain Henry Carr Glyn) was showing us his

Turkish and Crimean journal last night. He is a splendid fellow ; full

of good sense and humour, and as honest as the day. I think him a

most valuable, liberal, right-minded man, who has made good use of
I Ihis eyes
                   shall be glad to stay another week, especially as

have not caught a salmon for nine days, and there is finer fishing than

Sligo awaiting at my feet when the water comes down, which it is
Ibeginning to do.
                         saw a mighty seal close here the other day, rolling

about, with a black head as big as a calf, salmon-hunting. There are

whales here and grampuses, but we have seen none. We have plenty

Iof sea-boating and yachting, but I don't care for that since have
caught salmon ; I can think of nothing else. . . ."

        TO REV. J. EARNSHA.W (of Sheffield).

[On a Sermon, "Tradition of the Elders," in which he advocated the value of public
      amusements for young men in town, and the importance of these amusements being
      sanctioned by the presence of religious people and the clergy.]

                                                                                                   September 7, i860.

I" have to thank you for the honour you have done me in sending

me your admirable sermon, which is as valuable in manner as in matter.

The legalism and formalism of the Low Church school needs to be
Iexposed, and you have done it bravely and well.
                                                  think the sermon

ought to be read in quarters where the allusion to her Majesty will

Ifmake  it appreciated.  .. .   out  your  own  views, push  the Volunteer
         you wish to
   "                     carry

....movement. The incalculable good to the middle class which it is
working I can vouch for.             I can deeply sympathise with your
battle. I was brought up in the heart of the old Low Church school

(which, after all, had more heart than the present one), and saw my

noble father's vain struggles against the traditions of the elders. A

gentleman, a man of the world, and a Christian, he died without

showing the world the quarter of what was in him, because he belonged

to a school which was crippling his manifold powers at every turn.
One thing he did as Rector of Chelsea -- made a long and bold fight

                          The Gift of Rain.              109

for the scientific truths of geology, against popular superstition (a bold
deed in one of the most important London rectors) and lived, thank
God, long enough to re-echo Bacon's magna est Veritas, et pravalebit
--seeing all the world believing what he had been scouted for saying

twenty years before.
I" But what
             saw of that school caused in me a doctrinal and
moral ' culbute ' from which I did not recover for several years ; and
I have always earnestly wished to be the means of saving some few

young men from my own temporary fate. My work lies more among
officers of Aldershot and Sandhurst, both near me, who are, next to my

own farmers and labourers, the people for whom I feel, think, and write ;

but it is truly pleasant to find any one, above all a man of your standing
and power, working in the same direction, in a world to me unknown

and

  I I"
       unapproachable.    many years  ago,  when  got the little dynamics

       I little thought,

ever knew from your excellent book, that we should be brought per
sonally in contact in this way."

The summer of i860 was a very wet one. Rain fell almost

incessantly for three months. The farmers were frightened, and

the clergy all over the country began to use the prayer against

rain. The cholera had long been threatening England, and Mr.

Kingsley's knowledge of physical and sanitary science had told
him how beneficial this heavy rain was -- a gift from God at that

particular moment to ward off the enemy which was at hand, by

cleansing drains and sweeping away refuse, and giving the poor

an abundance of sweet clean water. It was a notable fact that

while ignorant people were crying out against the rain, the

chemists complained that there was so little illness they had

nothing to do, and the medical men pronounced it to be a very
healthy season. The parishioners of Eversley, however, remon

strated with him for not using the prayer for fine weather, and

he answered them by preaching a sermon on Matth. vii. 9-11,

which provoked much discussion, and was published under the
       of " Why should                                "
title                     we pray for fair weather
                                                    ?

Being a very short one it will be given to explain some of the

correspondence it caused. He sent copies of it to several

scientific men, who of course agreed with his views, but to many
people it was a cause of great offence.

   " Accept my sincere and hearty thanks for your sermon," says

1 1 o C/tarles Kingsley.

Professor Owen, " in which you alone -- so far as I know -- in your

calling, have had the honesty and courage to utter the truth in
reference to its subject ; the words will not be spoken in vain."

   The sermon began thus :--

  I" The prayer for fair weather, which has been read lately, under
Istand, in most churches, was not read this morning in this church, and

think myself bound, my friends, to tell you why I have thought it better

not to readI I it.  trust that you will listen to me patiently and fairly
                    it if I                                                 ;
and that even some of you should not agree with me, you will still
                         is                                                     I
                                                                                          ;
all give me credit for having thought over the matter carefully and for

wishing to say what true, and to do what right.isa                                 do
    " have not read this prayer for two reasons. First, becauseais is
I

not know that                needed. Secondly, because     I  am afraid of being

pre"suFmirpsttu. ous. do not know that the prayer          needed.    a It  speaks of a

plague of rain and waters. It speaks of the rain as                         punishment.

                                  a
                                            it,
Therefore see no reason to use                   unless we are sure that these par

ticular rains now falling are plague and punishment and of that
                                                                      :     is

                                                                                  I
have no proof.      I  have rather proof to the contrary. There great

reason to believe that these rains, over-heavy and hurtful as they seem,

are   really a boon and          blessing and in this way.;
                                of water, and that very vast quantity,
   "  A certain quantity                         a                          needs  to

be circulated throughout the world, as blood runs through our bodies,

simply to keep the world going to keep up life and health in vegetables,
                                          ;

in animals, in man. One of the most common,                it       certainly the most
                                                               is is
useful, of all things which we see around us. One half of all living things,

whether trees, vegetables, animals, or our own bodies, water. The seem

ingly driest air, the heart of mountains, and the very stones beneath

our feet, contain water and would not be what they are without it.
                                ;
                                      is
Without water, and water enough, the earth would be an useless desert.

Water has produced, and                   still producing, the soil which man tills,

the minerals and metals which he manufactures, and in these days of

steam, almost everything which he needs for his daily life.
   " This water must rise from the sea in clouds, and fall again on the

earth in rain and that according to regular average and unless
           ;

               is ;
                    is

                                                                    a
                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                 it
that average kept up, we shall have barrenness and poverty, disease

and death and God has so well ordered His earth, that the proper

average rainfall       kept up, not altogether year by year, but taking one

year with another. Now for the last two or three years, as you all

know, the rainfall has been much less than the average. What can

be more natural or more useful than that this year, or some one year,

     Restoring the Balance.                                                                          1 11

should be above the average, in order that the right balance may be

kept up ? Surely if we ask God not to restore the balance of rain, we
ask Him to do us harm and not good. True, these rains may lessen

Ithe grain crop for this year ; but shall be very slow to believe that

even that will harm us in the long run. Surely these rains will not hurt

the farmer, if they set the climate right ; for he depends, not on the
climate of one year only, but on the average climate of all years ; and

whatsoever brings that right, and restores the proper average of wet,
Imust in the long run benefit him. This,
                                          am sure, all long-sighted

and sensible farmers will understand; and will show themselves, as

usual, patient and stout-hearted men ; and even though, for this year,

they may suffer some loss, trust that it will be made up to them, by
the gains of the years past, and by the gains of the years to come. So

they will show themselves worthy members of that brave and indus

trious class which has made England the best cultivated country in

Eur"opI ea.m slow to believe, too, that these rains will hurt the people at

large. These late bright and hot years have brought us abundant crops,

Iboth here and abroad ; so that there is corn enough for all, under

stand, in England, even if this crop should fall short of the average ;

and this, and other causes, have brought England (thank God) just now
to such an unexampled state of wealth and prosperity, that we ought

to be able to tide over the next winter without any real distress, except

among the idle and drunken, the reckless and improvident, who always

must and always ought to suffer. As for the really deserving poor,

who from age or infirmity are unable to help themselves, there is

plenty, thank God, to give them, and plenty who have hearts to give

it.  Shame would be,  country which has received, and receiving
     it

            if

                    a

                                        it
                                                               it

                                                                              is
                                                                                                  a
still, so many blessings from God, should suddenly lose heart, and fancy

that Almighty God had turned against because has rained few

weeks more than usual this summer.

   " And bear in mind, my friends, that man doth not live by bread alone,
but by every word which proceedeth out of the mouth of God. By every
word. By all the laws of nature, which are words of God by all of
                      a
                                        is

                                                          ?
                                                                                ;

                                                                                                ?
them put together, and not by eating only, mankind preserved, and
enabled to multiply, and prosper, and grow richer, wiser, better. To

take the simplest instance. Can man live on food without drink or
                                                      No-- nor on all
on the two without air, or on all three without heat

four, without a hundred other wholesome influences, at many of which

the wisest men can only guess, but which altogether go to make up the

health of man, and without any one of which he would pine, and wither,

and die. And how do we know that these rains are not restoring to us

1 1 2 Charles Kingsley.

many a wholesome influence of this kind, which we should have wanted

without them ; that every shower which falls is not bringing down to

us blessings as necessary for our health, as is the one blessing of grain,
which it may lessen ? How do we know that they are not washing

away, day by day, the seeds of pestilence in man and beast, and veget

able, and sowing instead the seeds of health and fertility, for us and for

our children after us ? Let us beware then, lest while we fancy that we

are asking our Father for bread, we are really asking Him for a stone.

How do we know that if these rains had not come this year, the cholera

would not have come instead ? How do we know, that in praying God

to take away these rains, we are not asking Him to send the cholera in

the year to come ? I am of opinion that we are. I think, I have

thought long, that one or two more dry summers, keeping the springs at

their late low level, would have inevitably brought back the cholera, or

some other kind of pestilence : but even if that particular guess be
wrong, this I believe, and this I will preach, that every drop of rain

which is falling now is likely to be not a plague and a punishment, but

b"le2s.sinNgowa,ndpearhbaoposn,          to England and to Englishmen.
                                         you may understand better why
I Ia
                                                                                  said that  was
Iafraid of being presumptuous in praying for fine weather.
                                                                                     do not

blame any one for so doing : God forbid. Who am I, to judge another?

To his own master each man stands or falls ; yea, and he shall stand,

for if he be a righteous and pious man God is able to make him stand.
All I say
           ; is,

                  I
            that looking at the matter as do, would be presumptu
                                                      I  I

ous in me and do not wish to do                  it,         it
                                                      unless am commanded by my

bishop, in which case my duty to obey orders. But do shrink from
                                         it, is                                I

praying for fine weather on my own responsibility and for this simple;
reason -- Either we expect that our prayers will alter the weather, or we

do not. If we do not expect we are most presumptuous in praying
this prayer, for we are simply mocking God and we do expect --
                                                      ?                                      it it

                                                        I:

                                                                 is if
are we not somewhat piesumptuous also                    know little or nothing

about the weather, and God knows all. Which                                    most likely to be
right -- God or
II                                       God knows by what means these rains are produced           ?:
      I
                                                                               do not. And shall
                 I

                                      ?
do not. God knows what effect they will have
                                                 I is

                                                         is

                                                                            :

                                                              I
set up my wisdom -- or rather my ignorance -- against God's wisdom

Shall set up my narrow notions of what                   good for England against

God's boundless knowledge of what                     good for England, and for the

whole world at the same time Shall presume, because think                                           is
                                         ?                                        I

raining too long here, to ask God to alter the tides of the ocean, the

form of the continents, the pace at which the earth spins round, the

force, the light, and speed of sun and moon              For all this, and no less,
                                                      ?
                                                                     a
shall ask,         ask Him to alter the skies, even for single day.
I
              iIf

                 God's Fixed Laws.                     113"

   " For the weather, my friends, depends upon no arbitrary changes in
the will of God : but on laws as fixed and certain as those by which the

seed becomes a plant, or by which a stone falls to the ground. We

know little as yet about the laws of the weather : but this we know more

and more certainly, that it has laws : that even in this variable climate

of England, the rules of weather are really as fixed and perpetual as

they are in those countries where the wet season and the dry, the hot

season and the cold, follow each other year after year with unvarying

regularity. Yes--here, as elsewhere, every shower and every sunbeam is

foreordained from the foundation of the world. God has given them a law

which cannot be broken, and they continue this day according to His
ordinance, serving Him, and fulfilling His word. Let them serve Him

then, and not us. Let them fulfil His word, and not ours. Could we

alter them ? I think not. Would it be good for us to alter them ? I

think not also.
" For if I dare not set up my wisdom against God's, shall I again
set up my benevolence against God's ? Surely not. If we love our
Iffellow-men, does not God love them better than we ?
Ifselves, does not God love us better than we ?        we love our

                                                 we believe that God
is our Father in heaven ; if we believe that He is a good God ; if we

believe that His name is love ; if we believe that God so loved the
world, that He spared not His only-begotten Son, but freely gave Him

for us ; shall we not believe that with that Son He will freely give us

all things ? Shall we not believe that all things work together for good

to those who love Him ? Shall we not believe that we are not to be

anxious what we shall eat or drink, nor be of doubtful mind ; but seek

first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, living according to the

laws which He has laid down for our bodies and for our souls, just and

upright, loyal and orderly, patient and industrious, and then all these

things will be added to us ; for our Father in heaven knows what we
have need of, before we ask Him ?

   " Let us then, my friends, have faith in God ; and not break out,

before we know the facts and the truth, into hasty and ungrateful com

plaints that He is plaguing us and punishing us, when all the while He

most probably, preserving and blessing us as He wont to do. Let
is,

                   ;
                                                                     ;

                                                                                                                     ;

                                                                                         is

                                                                                                                                                                                     :
us not cry to Him greedily and blindly for fancied blessings which may

be real curses, and for the seeming bread, which might prove to be

nothing but a stone. We should not give such gifts to our children

neither will God to us. But for this let us cry for the good gifts which

can do us nought but good, which He has promised freely to all who

ask Him for His Holy Spirit for the spirit of wisdom and under

standing, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and

 H4 Charles Kingsley.

the fear of the Lord ; the spirit which is good for all men, in all ages,
 and in all places, for ever ; the spirit which will help us to be sober in
 good times ; cheerful in bad times ; and brave, prudent, and industrious
 in all times, as men who know that they have a Father in heaven, who
has made the earth right well ; and has given to man, if he will but use
 his reason, the dominion over it."

   On this subject Sir Charles Lyell writes to Mr. Kingsley :--

                                                                            London, September 23, 1860.

   I" On my return from the Continent, find here your excellent ser
Imon on the prayer for rain, sent to me, presume, by your direction,
I Iand for which return you many thanks. Two weeks ago, happened

 to remark to a stranger, who was sitting next me at a table d"hf>te at

Rudolstadt in Thuringia, that I feared the rains must have been

doing a great deal of mischief. He turned out to be a scientific man

Ifrom Berlin, and replied, ' should think they were much needed to

replenish the springs, after three years of drought.'

   I I" immediately felt that had made an idle and thoughtless speech.
ISome thirty years ago was told at Bonn of two processions of peasants,

who had climbed to the top of the Peter's Berg, one composed of vine
dressers, who were intending to return thanks for sunshine, and pray
for its continuance : the others from a corn district, wanting the drought
to cease and the rain to fall. Each were eager to get possession of
the shrine of St. Peter's Chapel before the other, to secure the saint's
good offices, so they came to blows with fists and sticks, much to the

amusement of the Protestant heretics at Bonn, who, I hope, did not by

such prayers as you allude to, commit the same solecism, occasionally,
only less coarsely carried out into action."

   He had numberless letters on the subject from the clergy and
others, to which the following are among the answers :

                                                                               CAMBRIDGE, November 12, 1860.

   " I have read your pamphlet with much interest. It is the only stric
ture on my weather sermon to which I have as yet replied, because it is

the only one written like a gentleman and bearing the author's name.

I have little fault to find, save that you attempt too much. You stir

right and left of you many a question which has made many heads grey,

and many hearts heavy ; and which will do so to the world's end. I think

you have misunderstood me in one important point. You ignore

                                  Mans Power to Conquer Plagues.   1 15

the fact that I do tell people to pray -- only telling them what to pray for.
The longer I live, the more I see that the Lord's Prayer is the pattern

of all prayers, and whether it be consistent with that to ask that God

should alter the course of the universe, in the same breath that we say

Thy will be done on earth --judge you. I do not forbid praying for
special things -- God forbid ! I do it myself-- I cannot help doing
it

               '

                     (I a

                                                                                it.

                                                                                it

                                                                                                                                  ;;

                                                                                                                         it,
any more than child in the dark can help calling for its mother. Only

seems to me                       do not dogmatize, but only say  seems) that when

we pray Grant this day that we run into no kind of danger,' we ought
to lay our stress on the " run" rather than on the " danger " to ask God

not to take away the danger, by altering the course of nature but to give
                                                 All prayers for forgiveness,
us light and guidance whereby to avoid

teaching, strength, guidance, whether for ourselves or others, must be

good. They concern the spiritual world of moral agents, having free
will and capable of inspiration from the spirit of God --the laws whereof

are totally different from those of the physical world. You mistake me

again, then, when you class me with the mechanical philosophers.
                                                                  I
have combated them in every book have ever written.               am now I
                                     I                                            I
                                             I
hard at work protesting against their views being applied to History in

my inaugural lecture, wherein assert that the Hebrew prophets knew

more of the laws of history than all the Comtes and Positivists put to

gether.  fully admit all that you say about God's using natural plagues,
I
         Ilocusts, earthquakes, pestilence, &c, as national punishments for national
Ifsins.
                               !you will read my sermons you will find that have enlarged

often on this subject and cannot see how my sermon interferes with
                                  ;
your (and my) scriptural belief on that point. But that does not prevent
my asserting man's power and right to abolish those natural plagues,is

                                       I         To pray against them, as long as he
when he has learnt how to do              a it.

cannot conquer them, natural, and not to be blamed. But when God

has answered his prayer, in a deeper and fuller sense than he dreamed

of, by teaching him how to protect himself against these plagues,
                                                                  if

                                                                                   it
                                                                                         is
very wrong and ungrateful to God, to go on praying as God had not

answered. The Russian has right to pray against the locust-swarms

as long as he does not know (what we do) that by tilling the waste lands
instead of leaving them in wild turf, he would destroy the locust larvae.

But when he has found out that, let him till and thank God. So with

our prayer against rain. do not blame our forefathers for putting in.

God forbid It rather marks a precious step forward in our theology.

For till the time when that prayer was inserted, the general belief of
                                  I                               ;

                                                                            it
                                                                                   it
Christendom had been, that the devil and witches were the usual pro

ducers of storms, and blights, and all that hurt the crops and was (as
   believe) the very inspiration of God which kept the good man who

1 1 6 Charles Kingsley.

wrote that prayer from saying anything about the devils and witches,

and referring the whole question to God alone. Now, I believe that that

prayer has been answered most fully, and in this way. We have learnt

and ought, in the last two hundred years, to conquer the weather. We

know now that if we cut down our superabundant timber, drain our

land, and use an improved agriculture, a wet season, instead of bringing

(as it did two hundred years ago) famine to man and beasts, does little

or no harm, and we have taken the lesson. God has answered the prayer

of our pious forefathers, by teaching us their children to laugh at the

storms before which they trembled. Shall we cry still to Him to do
for us, what He has taught us to do for ourselves ? For mind-- this is

the ultimate point. Does a wet season hurt England in the present state

I I Iof agriculture ? prophesied, no. found after had written, that great

scientific men, both here and abroad, took the same view of the rains

as I did ; and was proportionably thankful. I saw the crops of England

fairly housed, and in quantity, it seems, above the average, though the

rains did not stop. Recollect that, dear sir. God did not answer those

prayers. At the very time that some good men in their haste were

thanking God in churches for having stopped the rains, they returned as

heavily as ever ; and we had the painful spectacle, one Sunday, of one

diocese praying that the rains might stop, and another thanking God for

having stopped them. But the rains went on. Let those who believe

that God will alter the weather at their bidding face that fact ; and when

they quote the Old Testament against me, recollect what texts of the Old

Testament I might quote against them. -- ' When you spread forth your
hands, I will not hear.' -- ' He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh

them to scorn.' So the rains went on ; and are you aware, dear sir,

Ifwhat they have done ? Have you read the Registrar General's reports
for the last quarter?  not, you can hardly judge the matter. But

this the rains have done. They have saved (by the returns compared

with those of the same quarter last year) in the three months ending
October, 18,000 English lives, beside the seeds of future disease. The

doctors and apothecaries have been saying they never had so little to do--

Iand the only persons, as far as can find, who will suffer, are the

brewers and hop-growers, who have been making huge profits of late,

and can very well afford to make less this year, and allow God to save

18,000 human beings."

                       TO , ESQ.

I"                                                                                                                   i860.
    feel very deeply, and have been much touched by, the difficulties
which you put, as corollaries from my sermon on the weather ; never-

                              Seasonable Weather.                                                                       117

Itheless, I can and do pray, and hope that always shall pray. I do

not pretend to see my (logical) way clearly on this most subtle and
Iimportant point ; but this                 see -- that trials cannot be put into the

same category as natural phenomena. Trials are part of our spiritual
education-- chastisements to teach us somewhat ; and if we learn the

lesson beforehand, we may pray to have the sin forgiven, and the

chastisement remitted ; and even if we have not, we can, and in effect

do, cry out of the darkness to the boundless love of God, by an instinct

more rational and divine than all logic And this may apply even to

natural phenomena. To pray that there may not be a thunderstorm

is to me presumptuous, because the thunderstorm will not come unless

it is wanted. To pray that the particular lightning-flash may not strike
my child, is not presumptuous. It is only asking God that a peculiar

combination of circumstances which will bring my child under the

influence of the laws of electricity may not take place ; and that God

can and does arrange by a perpetual providence every circumstance

whatsoever, so making laws take effect only when and where He
II Ifchooses, believe utterly. It may be answered, ' it be right for the
child to be struck, it will be ; if not, not ! '  know that -- I believe that.

Everybody does who is pious. Even those who believe in a quite

magical effect from prayer, will say and rightly, when their prayers are
not answered, ' It is God's will, it ought not to have been answered,
                           '
therefore  it  was  not       All are driven to this ; yet all pray, and should
                         !

pray. It is one of those paradoxes which no science can explain. All

we can do to eliminate from our prayers, as much as we can, all of
'

                     is,
                                                      is
                                                          a

                                                                                                                    :

                                                                 if

                                                                                                                     a
self-will and selfishness, and study and copy the Lord's Prayer, praying

after that manner.' This                    poor answer but you be an honest

man, you would sooner have an honest half-answer than dishonest

whole one."

   In the following winter he writes from Eversley to Sir Charles
Bunbury on the same topic

" The frost here              intense and continuous. The result, the perfect
               I
                      is

                                         '
health of everybody. Of course, sufficient food and firing are required.

But much that have seen of late years (and this frost inter alia)

          to me that the most genial weather                     not the  healthiest.
         have been called names, as though had                    been    really selfish
pro"ves                                     '                    a                                                      and
I
                                                  I

                                                             is

cruel man, for a foolish Ode to the North-East Wind.' If my cockney'

critics had been country parsons, they would have been more merciful,
when they saw me, as have been more than once, utterly ill from
                              I

1 1 8 Charles Kingsley.

attending increasing sick cases during a soft south-west November of
rain and roses ; and then, released by a hard frost, my visits stopped in
a few days by the joyful answer, ' Thank God, we are getting all well
now, in this beautiful seasonable weather.' ' Seasonable weather '-- that

expression has taught me much. In the heart of the English labourer and
farmer, unsophisticated by any belief that the Virgin Mary or the saints
can coax the Higher Powers into sending them a shower or a sunbeam, if
they be sufficiently coaxed and flattered themselves -- into their hearts and

minds has sunk a deep belief that God is just and wise, and orders all

things well, according to a ' law which cannot be broken.' A certain
sermon of mine about the rains, which shocked the clergy of all

denominations, pleased deeply, thank God, my own labourers and

                                           is
                                                    it,
farmers. They first thanked me heartily for and begged for copies

of        then began to see (what          ought to have seen long before)
    it.                        a

      I                          I

                            a
that the belief in good and just God       the foundation,  if                                              not of a

scientific habit of mind, still of habit of mind into which science can

fall, and seed, and bring forth fruit in good ground.    I  learnt from that

to solve  a  puzzle which had long disturbed me --why the French

philosophers of the last century, denying and scoffing at much which                                                                       I
hold true and dear, had still been not only men of science, but men

who did good work in their time. They believed, even Voltaire, in
a good God -- at least they said, If God
                                           at all, He                                                       good, just,
                                   '

                                                    is
                                                                            is

and wise.' That thought enabled them at once to face scientific fact,

and to testify against cruelty, oppression, ignorance, and all the worksI
of darkness wherever they found them. And so learnt to thank God
for men who seemed not to believe in Him, and to value more and

more the moral instincts of men, as a deeper and more practical theo

logy than their dogmas about God. Excuse this tirade. But you are

one   of the few persons to whom can       speak my whole heart.                                              .
      Meanwhile, you would exceedingly     oblige me by telling
   "                           is                                                                           me                           where

the geology of Palestine              ;I
                                             I

                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                        .
                               described.  cannot get trustworthy infor

mation about it. Lynch and the man who went some years ago to
look for coal, tell me very little and though Lord Lindsay has some

hints about the volcanic appearances north of the Lake Tiberias, he
tells one nothing about the age and superposition of the beds. It

seems strange that so little should be known about one of the most
remarkable volcanic districts of the world. The age of the normal
limestones of the bitumen beds of the Dead Sea of the Edomite
          ;;
                                                                         '

                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                    it
mountains and of the recent (?) volcanic rocks of the north, all ought
to be known by some one or other. But most who have gone have
wasted their time in looking for the Cities of the Plain,' instead of

collecting sound physical facts. Some have been afraid, seemed to

        Inaugural Lecture.               119

me, of looking at the physical facts too closely, for fear of coming to
some ' rationalist ' conclusion."

   In the autumn the new Professor went up to Cambridge. " It
is with a feeling of awe, almost of fear, that I find myself in

such a place on such an errand," he said when he delivered his

Inaugural Lecture* in the crowded Senate House on the 12th of
November. He had an enthusiastic welcome from the under

graduates, and the lecture, which was published under the title
of " The Limits of Exact Science applied to History," was
listened to with profound attention, and most kindly received by
all ranks in the university. He now settled in Cambridge with
his family till Christmas, and began his first course of lectures,
eventually published as " The Roman and the Teuton," to a class
of upwards of one hundred undergraduates, and during the nine
years of his professorship his class was one of the best attended
in the university. His residence in Cambridge enabled him to
cultivate one of the most valuable friendships of his life, that of
Sir Charles Fox Bunbury, of Barton Hall, Suffolk, at whose
house, rich in itself with works of art, and with a museum and
arboretum, in which he delighted, he had the rare pleasure of

meeting, year by year, men distinguished in science, in literature,
and in society. There he first met Sir Charles Lyell, Sir
Edmund Head, Dr. Joseph Hooker, and Sir Louis Mallet, and
renewed his friendship with Lord Arthur Hervey (now Bishop
of Bath and Wells), and his happy days at Barton, which became
a second home to himself and his family, were a constant

refreshment to his spirit.

Ito"    cannot understand," he says,     wviisthitschtaorahcimte,ris"ticthemkoidnedstwy,oridnsawlehtitcehr
   Sir  Charles, after one of his first

you use about my visit to you. That you should speak so kindly of a

poor stammering superficial person like me, shows me only that there

are more good and kind and tolerant people in the world than I looked

Ifor, and knew there were many . . . ."

   The friendship he so dearly prized was mutual. But Sir

  * The Inaugural Lecture is now incorporated with the new edition of the " Romaa

and Teuton," with a preface by Max Miillcr. (Macmillan.)

1 20 Charles Kingsley.

Charles's generous appreciation must be told in his own words
in a letter to Mrs. Kingsley.

                        Barton, October 18, 1875.
" I have lost in him," he says, " an invaluable friend ; one whom for
many years past I have truly loved and revered, and who has left a
Iblank that, for me, can never be filled up.
                                              scarcely ever was in his
company without learning something from him. Much as I like and
admire his writings --to many of which I return again and again with fresh
Ipleasure -- his conversation was much more delightful than his books.
have very seldom, if ever, known a man whose talk was so charming, so

rich in matter, so various, so easy and unassuming, so instructive and so

free from dogmatism. Sensibility, humour, wisdom, were most happily

bli ii.led in it. Many a long conversation I have enjoyed with him, and
the remembrance of them will always be precious to me ; but I con
tinually regret that my memory could not retain more of what I heard

from him. Our talk often turned upon subjects of natural science, in

which he delighted, and of which his knowledge was extensive and

sound. He more than once said to me that, if circumstances had

allowed him leisure, botany, and natural history in general, would

have been his favourite studies. We passed many hours (delightful

to me) in examining together my botanical collections, and discuss
ing the questions which they suggested. His remarks were always
instructive and valuable. He had not, indeed, had leisure to prosecute

those elaborate researches, or to acquire that vast knowledge of details,

which belong to the great masters of science ; but his knowledge was by
no means superficial. He had mastered the leading principles and

great outlines of scientific natural history, in its principal branches ; and

the large generalizations in which he delighted, were based on a well-

directed study of facts, both in books and in nature.
   " He had the true naturalist's eye for quick and acute observation ;

the philosopher's love of large views and general principles ; the poet's

faculty of throwing a glow of light upon the objects which he wished to

illustrate. This combination of powers gave a peculiar charm to his

descriptions of natural objects, as is well exemplified in his West Indian
book and in many parts of his essays, especially in ' From Ocean to

Sea,' ' My Winter Garden,' and ' Chalk Stream Studies.' I think it a

great loss to science that he was not able to carry out a plan which, as
he told me, he had formed ;-- that of writing the Natural History of his
own district, the district of the Bagshot sands. He would have made

of it a work of remarkable interest.

   " Another quality of Mr. Kingsley, by which I was particularly struck

            Letter from Sir Charles Bunbury.         12 1

in the course of our discussions on these subjects, was his remarkable

modesty, indeed humility. He never dogmatized ; never put himself

forward as an authority ; was always ready to welcome any suggestion

from a fellow-labourer; and indeed always seemed more anxious to
Ilearn than to teach.
                       have been tempted to dwell, perhaps too long,
on one aspect only of his character and genius; but I believe you

wished to have my impression of him in this point of view. His higher

Iqualities are indeed more generally known, through his writings, and

will not attempt to expatiate on a theme, to which more justice may be
Idone by others.   can safely say that he was one of the best men I have

known ; his conversation was not only agreeable, but had a constant tend

ency to make one wiser and better ; and when it was directed to specially

religious topics, his tone of feeling and thought appeared to me both
elevating and comforting. I shall ever feel grateful for having been

allowed to  enjoy  the friendship of such  a man.
                      " Believe me,
                       " My dear Mrs. Kingsley,
                       " Ever yours affectionately,
                                           " Charles J. F. Bunbury."


                CHAPTER XXI.

                                                     1861--1862.

                                                          AGED 42--43.

CAMBRIDGE -- LECTURES TO THE PRINCE OF WALES -- LETTER FROM REV. S.
      Hansard --ESSAYS AND REVIEWS-- LETTERS TO DR. STANLEY-- BISHOP
       OF WINCHESTER -- MR. TOM HUGHES -- CAMPBELL OF ISLAY-- TRACTS -FOR
       PRIESTS AND PEOPLE--DEATH OF THE PRINCE CONSORT-- LETTER TO SIR
      C. Bunbury-- BLUE ROCK DOVES AT THE GRANGE-- THE WATER-BABIES--
       INSTALLATION ODE AT CAMBRIDGE -- VISIT TO SCOTLAND-- BRITISH ASSO
       CIATION--LORD DUNDREARY--LETTER TO PROFESSOR ROLLESTON ON DE
       GRADATION THEORY-- COTTON FAMINE IN LANCASHIRE.

Can we forget one friend,

Can we forget one face,
Which cheered us toward our end,
Which nerved us for our race ?

Oh sad to toil, and yet forego
One presence which has made us know
To God-like souls how deep our debt !
We would not, if we could, forget.

Severer muses, linger yet ;
Speak out, for us one pure and rich regret.
Thou Clio, who, with awful pen,

Gravest great names upon the hearts of men,
Speak of a fate beyond our ken ;

A gem, late found and lost too soon :
A sun gone down at highest noon ;
A tree from Odin's ancient root,

Which bore for men the ancient fruit,

Counsel, and faith, and scorn of wrong,
And cunning lore, and soothing song,

Snapt in mid-growth, and leaving unaware

The flock unsheltered and the pasture bare.

                                             C. K.

Ode for the Installation of the Chancellor
      of the University, after the death of
       the Prince Consort.

                CHAPTER XXI.

II"
" The longer      live, the more certain am," said Sir T. Fowell Buxton,

that the great  difference between men, the feeble and the powerful,
the great and the insignificant, is energy and invincible determination -- a

purpose once fixed, and then death or victory. That quality will do

anything that can be done in this world ; and no talents, no circum

stances, no opportunities, will make a two-legged creature a man

without it."

   It was this very invincible determination and energy which

carried Charles Kingsley through work, and sometimes a dis
tracting confusion of different works, and which preserved his
often weary body and exhausted brain from breaking down
entirely : but more than this, it was his child-like faith in God
which kept him not only free from the irritability so common to

all highly-strung natures, but cheerful and brave under every cir

cumstance.

The weight of responsibility that pressed heavily on him during

this year was added to by the duty and honour of giving private

lectures to     the Prince of Wales, who had just left Oxford,

and kept the usual terms atCambridge during 1861. On the 2nd
of January, Mr. Kingsley received through the Prince's tutor,
Mr. Herbert Fisher, a message from the Prince Consort on the
subject of his son's studies, informing him how they had been

conducted at Oxford --how a special class had been formed there

for instruction in Modern History, which instruction had been

carried up to the reign of William III. -- what book had been

used, &c, and requesting the Cambridge Professor to consult
Dr. Whewell, then Master of Trinity, as to the undergraduates
who should attend with the Prince. To this Mr. Kingsley

replied :

126 Charles Kingsley.

                                                         EVERSLEY RECTORY, January 2, 1861.

" Do me the kindness to inform the Prince Consort that his wishes

are, of course, commands to me.

  I" shall have great pleasure in following out the excellent method

sketched for me in your letter, and in putting myself into Dr. Whewell's

hands as to the formation of a special class for His Royal Highness.
"Any information which you can give me I shall most thankfully
Iaccept and use.
                  put myself entirely into your hands, both as the

expounder of the Prince Consort's wishes, and as the Prince of Wales's

tutor. The responsibility is too solemn and too sudden for me to act

Iin "anTyhewayfirsutpoqnuemsytioonwnwhpircihvatehajuvdegmtoenatskinist--heupmatottewr.hat  year in the

1 8th century I ought to extend my lectures ? "

   The class was accordingly formed, and the names selected by
the Rev. W. Mathison, senior Tutor of Trinity, subject to Dr.

Whewell's approval, were sent in to the Professor*
   Early in February the Prince of Wales settled at Madingley,

and rode in three times a week to Mr. Kingsley's house, for

lectures, twice with the class, and every Saturday to go through
a rSsum/ of the week's work alone.

   During the course of the academical year the Professor car
ried the class up to the reign of George IV. ; and at the end of

each term he set questions for the Prince, which were always
most satisfactorily answered. Throughout this year the sense of

responsibility which would otherwise have been overpowering,
was relieved not only by the intense interest of the work, in
which he was allowed perfect freedom of speech, but by the
attention, courtesy, and intelligence of his Royal pupil, whose

* Mr. Lee Warner, of St. John's College, lately head of Rugby School.
   Mr. Stuart, Rugby, of St. John's.
   Mr. Main, of St. John's, the best mathematician of his year, in his third year.
   Mr. Cay, of Caius College, a freshman, who had just obtained an open scholarship.
   Lord John Hervey, Trinity.
   Hon. C. Lyttelton, Trinity.

   Mr. Hamilton, Trinity.
   Mr. C. Wood, son of Right Hon. Sir Charles Wood.
   Hon. Henry Strutt, Trinity.
   Mr. A. W. Elliott, freshman of Trinity.
   And later in the year, Mr. George Howard, of Trinity.

Letter from Rev. S. Hansard.                          127

kindness to him then and in after-life, made him not only
H.R.H.'s loyal, but his most attached servant.

   But the year ended sadly, and his intercourse with the Prince
of Wales was brought to an abrupt termination by the death of

the Prince Consort, which threw a gloom all over England, and

was felt as a deep personal grief, as well as a national loss, by every
one who had had the privilege of coming in personal contact
with His Royal Highness.

   Mr. Kingsley's professional duties with the Prince of Wales

obliged him to keep all the terms at Cambridge, only returning
to Eversley for the long vacation ; and as his curate was in

deacon's orders, his friend, the Rev. Septimus Hansard (now
Rector of Bethnal Green), kindly consented to live at the Rectory
during his absence, to take the lead in the Sunday services, and
superintend the parish work. His able assistance relieved the

Rector's anxiety, while it strengthened their mutual friendship,
of which Mr. Hansard touchingly speaks in the following
letter:--

RECTORY, BETHNAL GREEN, 1876.
...." DEAR MRS. KINGSLEY,
I" . . . . Hitherto have found no letters.            I am glad

that you have some excuse for associating me with your husband, in any

record you can give the world of him. It is an honour to be able to

Isay was one of his friends, and it is a privilege to have known him.
His memory will ever be dear to me, and when I think of the group of

good and noble souls who have passed from us to the unseen world,

Iwith whom have so often mixed for instruction, for pleasure, and for

' the fellowship of the Holy Ghost,' his figure and face are before me

most vividly. . . . For few men left their impression on their friends

Ifmore vividly and more pleasantly than your husband  A country

walk with him was a thing to be remembered.         he found you enjoyed

talking with him, he could tell you of something in every tree, hedgerow,

ditch, or stream, that you did not know before, and with his sweet

perception of the beauty of God, he would glorify every thing with the

poe"trNyevoefr,histooth, ocuagnhtIs. forget his free and friendly talks with me, in that

dear, dear old study -- his deep earnestness on all questions of the day,

his faithful hope for the future, his utter detestation and abhorrence of

sin and wrong-doing, and especially of all little, mean, dirty sins, which

most men gloss over ; and then his heartiness and playfulness, and his

128 Charles Kingsley.

sympathy for the poor and needy, and for him that hath no helper ;
and, more striking to those who only knew of him by his writings, his

Christ-like toleration for those who differed with him in opinion, and
his sweet gentleness. I often used to say that Charles Kingsley had
Ithe gentleness of a woman.
                             have heard people after seeing his photo

graph say that he must have been a stern man. Sternness, they have

thought, must have been a characteristic of him who could speak so

sternly against wrong and oppression, and so earnestly and strongly

about Duty. But he had the tenderness of feeling and gentleness of
spirit of a woman, with the firmness of moral purpose and unflinching
loyalty to duty of the strongest man. Naturally and by principle averse

from quarrelling, he was ever ready to fight in the cause of justice to

the poor, the oppressed, the suffering, and the weak.

   " The Revelation of His Master's life --the Revelation of Christ --

had penetrated Charles Kingsley through and through.
   " Dear friend, you know all this --only those who knew him well in

his own home and in his private retreats know it thoroughly. Why
I Ishould write it all ? Because it is a pleasure to say it to you.
Ithought it all when was getting over the crisis of that detestable fever,*
I I Iand then was forbidden to write to any one.
                                                 thought should die
Ifirst, when, lo ! the news came that he was dead, and I felt as though

had lost a dear brother, but only for a short time.

  " How I remember talking with him and you on one summer's even

ing under the three fir trees ; and how earnestly and reverently we came
to the conclusion that as our Heavenly Father is Justice and Love, so

He cannot have given us those strong affections which rivet husband

to wife, and child to mother, only to be severed for ever and ever. We

should not make creatures to be thus tortured, and as we cannot be

better than God, we may be sure that He has not so made us. The

If' Master ' says, ' ye being evil know how to give good gifts to your

children, how much more shall your Heavenly Father.' Therefore, with

all the strength of your good heart, rely on it that it is the will of our

dear good Heavenly Father, that you will know your dear husband
again, because God is Good, and your dear husband lives in Him who
is good and just, and who cares for us all in all our human sorrows and

griefs, as a mother does for her child, as a father pities his children, and

                  they are made.
                 nearer you that
....I Ikno"wetwhishwhIerweaosf
....far from well                 might comfort  you but I am
                   However I must not murmur.    I have had blessings

* Scarlet fever caught in parochial work in Bethnal Green Parish.

              Cambridge and the "Essays."                                   129

poured upon me, and last, not least of all, the friendship of Charles
Kingsley. God bless him and you and yours. For God is not the God

of the dead, but of the living.
                                      " Ever yours most sincerely,
                                                            " Septimus Hansard."

   About this period " Essays and Reviews " came out, and the
following letter shows Mr. Kingsley's impression of the attitude
of Cambridge at the publication :

              TO REV. ARTHUR PENRHYN STANLEY.

                                             Cambridge, February 19, 1861.

    " Cambridge lies in magnificent repose, and shaking lazy ears stares

at her more nervous elder sister and asks what it is all about.
   " She will not persecute the authors of the Essays ; and what is more,

any scraps of the Simeonite party, now moribund here, who try to get
up a persecution, will be let alone --and left to persecute on their own

hook. That is the Cambridge danger. Cool indifferentism : not to the

              means of fighting for them.
              is the most liberal (save ' Bohemia
doctrines, but to the                                                       ever

  I" The atmosphere
                                                              ')  which

lived in. And it is a liberality (not like that of Bohemia, of want of
principle or creed), but of real scholarly largeness and lovingness be

Itween men who disagree. We ' live and let live ' here, find, to my
delight. But with that will come the feeling -- in which, I confess, I
share -- what the plague had these men to do, starting a guerilla raid

into the enemy's country, on their own responsibility? We are no

more answerable for them, than for Garibaldi. If they fail, they must

pay the penalty. They did not ask us-- they called no Synod of the
Broad Church -- consulted no mass of scholars, as to what could or

could not be done just now. They go and levy war on their own

account, and each man on his own account. Each one of us might

make himself responsible for one essay. But being published together,

Ione does become responsible for all or none ; and that won't be, nor
Iany man in Cambridge.  would not even be responsible for * * * 's
IArticle, much as trust and respect him. The world, mind, does take
one as all, and all as one. The ' Essays and Reviews ' are one book in
the mind of the world, and if they were not meant to be, they should

Inot have been published in one volume. This is what Cambridge (and
I)  feel, as  far as can ascertain.
                There is little or nothing,                   in that book
    " Next.                                  says Cambridge,

    VOL. II.                                                             K

130 Charles Kingsley.

which we have not all of us been through already. Doubts, denials,
destructions --we have faced them till we are tired of them. But we

have faced them in silence, hoping to find a positive solution. Here

comes a book which states all the old doubts and difficulties, and gives

us nothing instead. Here are men still pulling down, with far weaker

hands than the Germans, from whom they borrow, and building up

nothing instead. So we will preserve a stoic calm. We wish them

all well. We will see fair play for them, according to the forms of

English law and public opinion. But they must fight their own battle.

We cannot be responsible for other men's campaigns.
" This, I think, is the feeling of Cambridge. I do not expect, from
what I
         hear,  otfha*t*_y*ouanwdill**h*avemaaynygemt aunpifessotmoetahginagin, stanEdsscaoyws aradnsd                                           Re
views.                                                                                                                                           and
          ***

                              for fear of committing themselves but think
        if

            it
                                it,

                                                                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                                '

                                                                       I
trimmers may sign

they will win little but wind by their movement, and that they may

bottle     will help them.'

                 TO THE          BISHOP OF WINCHESTER,

                                 (Dr. Sumner.)               Eversley, 86 1.

" My Lord,                                                           1

          " have received     a  circular from the venerable the archdeacon,
'

           I

                           a
asking me to sign an address to your lordship in reference to the

Essays and Reviews,' of miserable notoriety. That address declined
                                                                 II
to sign upon question of archidiaconal jurisdiction.         aI  begged that

the letter might be sent to the archdeacon.                  hope that your lordship
                                                 it,
will do me the honour of perusing                be sent on to you. But in
                                                   I if

                                                        it

                                                          I
justice to your lordship, and to myself, must tell you what thought
myself bound not to tell the archdeacon in his official capacity.                                                                                it I
should be sorry that you should think that agreed with book whose
                                                 I

publication have deeply deplored, and have more reason to deplore
      I
eve"ry        I

                       it
        day.                  first, for itself; second, for the storm which saw
        deplore                                                  I

would raise. For itself. With the exception of Dr. Temple's essay, in

which can see nothing heterodox, be his theory right or wrong, all the
        I

ess"ayTs hedednoyubbtust      do not affirm.     they raise afresh have passed through
                              and puzzles which

the mind of every thinking man in the last twenty-five years, and
                                 a

                                                      I

                                                                                                it
pained me much to see them re-stated -- in one or two cases very offen
sively --without any help to practical solution.
                                                             confess to having

thrust the book away in disgust, as saying once again, very weakly,

what had long put out of sight and mind, in the practical realities of
      I

                     Speculations and Practice.                                                   131

Ifparish work.  I may intrude my own doings on your lordship, when

my new curate came back to me after ordination, having heard your

lordship's allusion to these ' Essays and Reviews,' and asked me
Iwhether he should read them, told him ' By no means.
                                                                They

will disturb your mind with questions which you are too young to

solve. Stick to the old truths and the old paths, and learn their

divineness by sick beds and in every-day work, and do not darken your

mind with intellectual puzzles, which may breed disbelief, but can

never breed vital religion, or practical usefulness.' As for my own

opinions, my lord, they are sufficiently known. The volumes of

Isermons which have published are, I am sure, a sufficient guarantee
Ito you as they are to the public, that keep to the orthodox faith, and

the orthodox formulae, without tormenting my soul, or my hearers, with

fruitless argument on things which we shall never know, save by taking

our Bible in hand like little children, and obeying it. Next, I deplore
the publication of these Essays from the storm which I saw they would

raise. As a fact, they are being sold now by hundreds, where one

copy would have been sold ; and therefore thousands of brains are

being put into an unwholesome ferment, instead of one here and there.

The effect at the Universities will be very bad ; for young men are

only too glad to fly off on intellectual disquisitions, from the plain re

quirements of Christian faith and duty, and therefore I could have

                                     iIf it
                                             is
                                                             it,

                                                           I
                                                                                     is,
                                                                                               a
wished that the book had been passed by in silence, as what it                                    very

weak and inconsiderable book. But    too late. That my curates,

and my parish, shall be kept clear,  can do          of all fruitless and

unwholesome speculations, and taught to believe in the plain doctrines

of the Prayer-book and Articles, and act up to them, promise you

with all my heart."

   In the spring set of " Tracts for Priests and People " werea
brought out under the superintendence of Mr. Maurice. Mr.
Kingsley was asked to write, but his time was absorbed with

parish work and Cambridge lectures, and he writes
                                                      :

                     TO TOM HUGHES, ESQ.

                                     Cambridge, April 21, 1861.

         " have read your tract Religio Laid,' with very deep pleasure.
      It clear, hearty, and honest, and God grant, my dear fellow, that such

        faith may abide with you through life, death, and all times to come --
a                    '

  is I                                            if

      for so all will be well.                        men will only do
         " have yet hope for the Church of England,
      I

132 Charles Kingsley.

(whether for or against us or the Essays) what you bid them, say what
they do believe, and not what they don't. But it is difficult to make

men do that ; and for this reason. If you ask the religionist what he

believes, he answers you pat enough --but mere formulae out of a book,

the slang of his school, which he has not translated into his own native

tongue, and which he would not recognise as his creed were it translated
for him. * * * * does translate Evangelicalism into English for the

world, faithfully enough ; and the educated portion of the religious

world shudders at the revelation of its own ugliness as a man shrinks

from an ape, because it is so like a man. But the mass have not
* * * *'s courage or thick-hidedness, and therefore they will confine

themselves carefully to the slang of their sect, the clothes thereof, and

never give you, nor themselves, the naked truth of what they really

conceive of heaven, earth, and man.
   " Therefore, you, and all men who try to speak what they believe, are

naked men, fighting men quilted sevenfold in formulae ; and you fight

   disadvantage which is only  not deadly.
   For me, bide my time.       have always
I Iata                                                asserted,  rather  than  denied.

"

....I have nothing more to say now than what I have said in print a dozen

times."

                               TO TOM HUGHES, ESQ.

                                                      Cambridge, November, 1861.

I" You can help me, and        am sure you will. My soul is moved

by the abominations which this Children's Employment Commission is

Isaid to have brought to light : but have no authentic details thereon.
I am minded to speak earnestly about it in my Chapel-Royal sermon
Inext Sunday, if between now and then can get facts enough to speak

with authority, and also can hear what is likely to be done about it next

session. Now, can you tell me aught? or tell me how to find out

aug"hDt o? give me a lift,     and you shall find that ' still in my ashes live their

wonted fires.' "

                               Cambridge, November 22, 1861.

I I" must write you a line to tell you how deeply                        sympathise
with your loss.* I knew very little of him ; but many here did so ; and

it would be a real and wholesome comfort to you to hear how he is

Ispo"kenheoafr, ,  especially  by Leslie Stephen.     disappointed  in other ways.
                    too, that  you are bothered and

                               * Death of a brother.

                      No Work is Lost.                         133

Do remember if you lose heart about your work in London, that none

of it is lost. That the good of every good deed remains, and breeds,

and works on for ever ; and that all that fails and is lost is the outside

shell of the thing, which perhaps might have been better done, but

better or worse, has nothing to do with the real spiritual good which
you have done to men's hearts -- and of that, dear Tom, you have done
a very great deal , for which God will surely repay you in His own way

and time.
" I hear you think of getting into Parliament. Pray do if you have a
Ichance.
           have long wished to see you there. You will complete your

own education by it. You will do good to others by it. From all

points of view it is to me most desirable. Go in for a small and obscure
                               "
place, rather than not at all

   It is pleasant to be able to wind up this early period of his

Professorial work with the kindly words of a Cambridge under
graduate and Rugby man, who attended both the Royal class
and the public lectures for the year, and who, after thanking him
for his lectures, says :

   " I do not think that I have ever had old prejudices swept away more

quietly and forcibly by any one, save Dr. Temple, so much as by your- '

I Iself. wanted something of the kind when first went up to Cambridge
Iand began to read history for myself, and shall always thank you for

giving it to me."

   The American war, which was occupying general attention,
decided the Professor to take the History of America as the

subject of his lectures for 1862.
   The correspondence of the year, of which little has been re

covered, closes with a letter to Sir Charles Bunbury, written

on his return to Eversley, in that time of general mourning in

which all England shared.

                                                                   Eversley, December 31, 1861.

  I" ought long ago to have thanked you for your kind letter, and still

more for the pamphlet on the fossil plants from Nagpur. But events

Ihave of late passed so rapidly, and been to me so absorbing, that have
I Ileft undone many things which ought to have done. So must beg

you"  to forgive me.  between  the coal  plants  of India and  Australia is (to
      The similarity

me at least) new, and most pregnant ; and when one adds to it the facts

134 Charles Kingsley.

which you give as to the similarity of the modern plants in the two

countries, vast dreams of a southern continent are opened up, the truth
Iof which must depend very much, I presume, on the discoveries which
will shortly be made in Madagascar. To that country           look as the

great new field for botany, zoology, and geology, as it is now opened up
by the death of the old tyrant Queen, and the accession of the good and

liberal Prince whom Ellis celebrates.
   " As for the American question, on which you do me the honour to

ask my opinion, I have thought of nothing else for some time; for I
Icannot see how can be a Professor of past Modern History without the

Imost careful study of the history which is enacting itself around me.

But can come to no conclusion, save that to which all England seems to

Ihave come -- that the war will be a gain to us. So strongly do feel the
importance of this crisis, that I mean to give as my public lectures, next

October term, the History of the American States ; and most thankful

Ito you should be, if you could recommend me any books throwing

light on particularly on the little-known period (strange to say), from
1

               it,
81"5Asto   the present   time.
          for the death   of the  Prince  Consort,  can say nothing.  Words
                                          if I I
fail me utterly. What little could say, put into sermon for myis a
own parishioners, which will send you you will allow me
                         I                                            I
                              I

need not say how we regretted not being able to accept your kind in
vitation. But the heavy work of last term, and the frightful catastrophe *

with which ended, sent us all home to rest, rest possible, when,
I                                                   if

             iton coming home, one finds fresh arrears of work waiting for one, which
ought to have been finished off months since. The feeling of being

always behind hand, do what one will, second only in torment to that
                                          is

of debt.                                                      '  the stones
   " long to find myself once again talking over with you

which tell no lies.' "

   The opening of 1862 found him once more settled at Eversley,a
and enjoying the return to parish work after the heavy duties
and responsibilities of such year at Cambridge as could never

come again.

   His mind was particularly vigorous this year, and the refresh
ment of visits with his wife to the Grange in the winter, and to
Scotland in the summer, giving him change of thought and scene,
prepared him for returning to his professorial work in the

                                                 * Prince Consort's death.

                Darwinism and Blue Rocks.                                                 135

autumn, and to his controversy on the Cotton Famine with Lan
cashire mill-owners and millionaires.

   TO CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ., F.R.S., &c. &c.

                                                                        January 31, 1862.

   " We have just returned from Lord Ashburton's at the Grange, where
the Bishop of Oxford, the Duke of Argyll, and I, have naturally talked

mu"chAsabfoorutthyeouBiasnhdopy,oyuorubokonko.w* what he thinks.        The Duke is calm,

liberal, and ready to hear all reason; though puzzled, as every one

mu"stWbhea, tbsytaartehdundursedonneywouquaenstdionysouwrhitchheoyroyu   have opened.     in the
                                                                        was the shooting  There
park of a pair of ' blue rocks,' which I was called to decide on.

were several men there who knew blue rocks. The Duke said that the

specimen was different from the blue rock of the Hebrides. Young

Baring, that it was different from the blue rock of Gibraltar and of his
I INorfolk rabbit warrens (which don't believe, from the specimens have
seen, to be a blue rock at all, but a stunted stock dove, which feeds in
                and I could hardly
rabbit holes),  till I saw, but very  swear that this was               a blue rock (as the
keeper held),                          weakly developed,                the black bars on

the wing cornets.
   " Do you care enough about the matter to have a specimen of the

bird ? He comes in twos and threes (from the Isle of Wight, I suppose)

to the heart of South Hants, and feeds on ivy berries.

  " My own view is-- and I coolly stated fearless of consequences --
                                      a
                                                    it,
that the specimen before us was only to be explained on your theory, and

that cushat, stock dove, and blue rock, had been once all one species                      ;

and found-- to show how your views are steadily spreading --that of five
I

or six men, only one regarded such notion as absurd
" At least believe
                    me,  differing    now and now agreeing,

                                           " Yours faithfully,

                                                                        "C. Kingsley."

In answer to this query, Mr. Darwin writes
                                      ;

                                             it
                                                                  is :
" With respect to the pigeons, your remarks clearly show me (without
seeing specimens) that the birds shot were the stock C. GSnas, long con
founded with the cushat and rock pigeon. It
                                                                        in some respects

identical in appearance and habits as breeds in holes in trees and in

                    * " Origin of Species," recently published.

136 Charles Kingsley.

rabbit warrens. It is so far intermediate that it quite justifies what you
                                                         "
say on all the forms being descendants of one

   Of the blue rock dove of the Eastern counties, Mr. Kingsley
had previously written to Sir Charles Bunbury :

   " I trust that you will excuse my troubling you in the cause of science ;
Ibut have asked a very good local ornithologist about the dove of your

warrens ; and he says that it is either the blue rock dove (parent of our
domestic pigeon) or an unknown and mysterious dove which used to
haunt the open lands of Cambridge twenty years ago, and is now disap

pea"riWngo.uld it be possible for your keeper to procure me a specimen of
the bird, and a couple of its eggs ? We might thus clear up a loose
point-- always a thing to be desired."

                   TO CAPTAIN ALSTON, R.N.

                                                 EVERSLEY, March 20, 1862.

I" cannot thank you enough for your splendid present, which arrived
I Ithis morning.
                   have tried one of them, and they are admirable.

have given some to an old army friend, who is too poor to buy cigars, and

who is licking his lips over them with delight. So you have made two

me"n Ahsapfpoyr .     They will last me for the  next three years.  you a list  of
                   the Workmen's Club, Mrs.      Kingsley has sent

books which she recommends. The best periodical for them is certainly
Norman McLeod's ' Good Words,' which is quite admirable, and has
I IInow a very large circulation -- 70,000, believe.
                                                         do not think that
would give them Carlyle yet. If I did, it would be ' Past and Present.'

And yet, things have so mended since it was written that that would be
unfair. The ' French Revolution ' is the book, if they would only

understand it.

  I" am not the man to give you any practical suggestions as to the

working of such a club. But if when you come to London, you choose

call on my dear friend, Tom Hughes (Tom Brown), he would give you

admirable hints learnt from experience.
am truly thankful to hear that have
I Ima"ny                                         helped  to make a church
Iman of you. The longer live, the more I find the Church of England

the most rational, liberal, and practical form which Christianity has yet

assumed ; and dread as much seeing it assimilated to dissent, as to Popery.

Strange to say, Thomas Carlyle now says that the Church of England is

the most rational thing he sees now going, and that it is the duty of every

wise man to support it to the uttermost."

                        " The 'Waterbabies"                                137

   Sitting at breakfast at the rectory one spring morning this
year, the father was reminded of an old promise, " Rose, Maurice,
and Mary have got their book, and baby must have his." He

made no answer, but got up at once and went into his study,
locking the door. In half an hour he returned with the story of
little Tom. This was the first chapter of " The Waterbabies,"
written off without a correction. The rest of the book, which ap
peared monthly in " Macmillan's Magazine," was composed with

the same rapidity and ease as the first chapter -- if indeed what

was so purely an inspiration could be called composing, for the
whole thing seemed to flow naturally out of his brain and heart,
lightening both of a burden without exhausting either ; and the

copy went up to the printer's with scarcely a flaw. He was

quite unprepared for the sensation it would make.

   Nothing helped the books and sermons more than the silence
and solitude of a few days' fishing. The Waterbabies, especially,
have the freshness and fragrance of the sea breeze and the river

side in almost every page ; and he writes home from the banks of

Itchen :

    I I I" have told Masson that will be ready for him in July.            have

got a deal more ready, among others a wonderful waterproof picture-book,

Iin which Tom sees how a race of men, in time, become gorillas by being
          have worked out the theory till I quite believe
brutish.                                  !

                                                                      it.
    " Oh, the loveliness of this vale and river and the comfort of all the

cottages and tenants. It                  happy land round here, at least as far as
          ;                             am just starting fishing -- day looking perfect

                      I is
                                       a
Lord Ashburton's goes.                                                                   a:

but"II  don't hope for much, the fish are all feeding at ground

        shall be at Winchfield at one o'clock to-morrow.   have had bad
sport enough so has every one --but delightful scenery.   II
                                                                           am now at

the,Plough at Itchen."

    About the Waterbabies, he writes to Mr. Maurice        :

    " When you read         hope you will see that have not been idling
                I                         ;
                      iIt,
                                             is
                                                  a

                                                     I
my time away.   have tried, in all sorts of queer ways, to make children

and grown folks understand that there        quite miraculous and divine

element underlying all physical nature and that nobody knows anything

about anything, in the sense in which they may know God in Christ,

and right and wrong. And                  have wrapped up my parable in seeming
                it
                    is

                               iIf
Tom-fooleries,  because so only could get the pill swallowed by
                                          I

138 Charles Kingsley,

generation who are not believing with anything like their whole heart,
in the Living God.

   " Meanwhile, remember that the physical science in the book is not

Inonsense, but accurate earnest, as far as dare speak yet."

   In the summer the Duke of Devonshire was installed at
Cambridge as Chancellor of the University, of which he had
been so distinguished a member, taking the place of the lamented

Prince Consort; and the Professor of Modern History, as in duty

bound, wrote an installation ode, which, being set to music by
Sir William Sterndale Bennett, gave him the acquaintance
and friendship of one of the first English musicians. Their

work together was a great mutual interest. Of the result, a
Fellow of Trinity wrote to Mrs. Kingsley on June 10 :

I" have just left the Senate House, where we heard the ' perfect
Imusic set to noble words,' given in a way which, think, would have
Isatisfied you.
                     will only add that the Ode was received as it deserved.
ICan more emphatically assure you that it was applauded judiciously as
                     "
well as loudly

I IThe Professor of Music, writing at the same time, says, " was very
sorry not to meet you and Mrs. Kingsley at Cambridge.                    think you
Iwould have been pleased. The last thing heard was the ringing cheer
Ifor Professor Kingsley.
                             was thoroughly satisfied with the performance.
                                                         if I publish ?  *
Will  you  give  me  leave   to use  your words                           BENNETT."
                             Yours                         STERNDALE
                          "          sin"cWereILlyL,IAM

   In August, with his wife and his eldest boy Maurice, he went
to Scotland for a month's holiday, whence he writes

                             TO HIS MOTHER.

                                     MURTHLEY CASTLE, August, 1862.

   " Here we are in this delicious place, full of beautiful walks and

Iplantations -- with Birnam Wood opposite my window as write --only

all the wood having gone to Dunsinane in Macbeth's time, the hill alone

is left          We had reels last night, Lord John Manners and Sir Hugh

Cairns both dancing          All that is said of the grandeur of the Tay

                     * The music was never published.

                    Scotland and Salmon.     139

II quite agree in.  never saw such a river, though there are very few
Isalmon up.
             got into one huge fish yesterday ; but he shook his head

and shook out the hook very soon. Maurice caught a good sea trout

of 2\ lbs., which delighted him. Monday we start for Inveraray, vi&
Balloch, Loch Lomond, and Tarbet."

                                    Inveraray Casti.e, August 21.

I" The loveliest spot ever saw --large lawns and enormous timber on

the shores of a salt-water loch, with moor and mountain before and

behind. We had the grandest drive yesterday through Glencroe, from

Loch Lomond at Tarbet to Inverary round the head of Loch Fyne.

Loch Lomond is certainly very fine, putting one, now and then, much

in mind of the Rhine ; but full of beautiful wooded islands, and with
Ivery grand mountains at the upper end.
                                         gat myself up this morning
at four for salmon, yesterday I could kill none ; water too low. To-day
Ithe first cast hooked a ten pounder, and the hook broke I The river is

swarming ; they are flopping and smacking about the water every where;

but oh, dear ! why did heaven make midges ?

  If" you examine the picture enclosed, carefully, on the extreme top of

the extreme left, you behold the hill of Dunnaquoich, or the drinking-

cup, which has a watch-tower on his top, for speculation after the thieves

of those parts, and is about 500 feet high, with enormous pine and
beech to his top, and views angelical. Beneath it you see the Castle
of the Maccallum More, circumambulated by the piper before each
meal, and surmounted by the banner of the ship and cross. Between

the hill and the castle, you would perceive, if it were visible, the river

Aray, which contains now far more salmon than water; wherefore
not being able to catch them fairly, we gaff them in narrow places.

Beyond Dunnaquoich runs up Glen Shiray, which contains the
Dhu Loch, which again contains salmon, salmon trout, brown

Itrout, salmo-ferox, sythe, lythe, herrings, sticklebacks, flounders,

grayling (on my honour an't lying), and all other known and unknown
fresh and salt-water fish, jumbled together in thousands. Such a piece

Iof fishing never saw in my life. The next glen is the head of Glen

Fyne, with Kelmorich.
   " Up Glen Shiray the Maccallum More of those days did hide Rob

Roy, and gave him land and beeves, contrary to law and the King's

peace, whereon his brother lairds (who would have done just the same

if they could have got a dollar by it), cried out, ' Oh, fie on the
Argyll,' to which he answered, standing on Dunnaquoich, ' 'Tis a far

cry to Loch Awe ! '

140 Charles Kingsley.

   " We are going out to dredge sea beasts, live Terebratulas ! ! ! ! and I

will bring you some."

   The visit to Inveraray was one of the bright memories and
green spots of his life, always looked back upon by himself and
those who were with him with gratitude, combining as it did not
only beautiful scenery, but intellectual, scientific, and spiritual
communings on the highest, holiest themes. Such holidays were
few and far between in his life of labour, and when they came
he could give himself up to them, " thanks," as he would say,

" to my blessed habit of intensity, which has been my greatest help

in life. I go at what I am about as if there was nothing else in the

world for the time being. That's the secret of all hard-working men ;
but most of them can't carry it into their amusements. Luckily for me,

I can stop from all work, at short notice, and turn head over heels in the

sight of all creation for a spell."

   The British Association met at Cambridge on the ist October.

It was the first he had ever attended. The Zoological and Geo

logical sections were those which naturally attracted him, and
the acquaintances he made, the distinguished men he now
met, (among them, the lamented Beete Jukes, and Lucas
Barrett, who was drowned in the survey of the Jamaica coral
reefs the next year,) made this an era in his life, and gave
a fresh impetus to his scientific studies. While attending Sec
tion D, he was present at the famous tournament between
Professor Owen and Professor Huxley on the Hippocampus
question, which led to his writing a little squib for circulation

among his friends. As it will be new to many it is given at

length.

  SPEECH OF LORD DUNDREARY IN SECTION D, ON FRIDAY
             LAST, ON THE GREAT HIPPOCAMPUS QUESTION.

                                                                                         CAMBRIDGE, October, 1861.

   " Mr. President and Gentlemen, I mean Ladies and Mr. President,
I Iam sure that all ladies and gentlemen will see the matter just as do ;
Iand am sure we're all very much obliged to these scientific gentlemen
Ifor quarrelling -- no -- don't mean that, that wouldn't be charitable, and
Iit's a sin to steal a pin : but mean for letting us hear them quarrel,

                     Lord Dundreary.  141

and so eloquently, too ; though, of course, we don't understand what is

the matter, and which is in the right ; but of course we were very much

Idelighted, and, may say, quite interested, to find that we had all hip

popotamuses in our brains. Of course they're right, you know, because

seeing's believing.
I" Certainly,
               never felt one in mine ; but perhaps it's dead, and so

didn't stir, and then of course, it don't count, you know. A dead dog
is as good as a live lion. Stop -- no. A live lion is as good as a dead
dog --no, that won't do again. There's a mistake somewhere. What

I Iwas saying ? Oh, hippopotamuses. Well, say, perhaps mine's dead.
IThey say hippopotamuses feed on water. No, don't think that, be

cause teetotallers feed on water, and they are always lean ; and the

hippo's fat, at least in the Zoo. Live in water, it must be ; and there's

Inone in my brain. There was when was a baby, my aunt says ; but
they tapped me; so I suppose the hippopotamus died of drought. No

-- stop. It wasn't a hippopotamus after all, it was hip -- hip -- not hip,

hip, hurrah, you know, that comes after dinner, and the section hasn't
Idined, at least since last night, and the Cambridge wine is very good,
Iwill say that. No.
                     recollect now. Hippocampus it was. Hippo
Icampus, a sea-horse ; learnt that at Eton ; hippos, sea, and campus, a
horse --no--campus a sea, and hippos, a horse, that's right. Only
Icampus ain't a sea, it's a field, know that ; Campus Martius -- I was
swished for that at Eton -- ought to be again, I believe, if every dog had
I Ihis day. But at least it's a sea-horse, know that, because saw one

alive at Malta with the regiment, and it rang a bell. No ; it was a

canary that rang a bell ; but this had a tail like a monkey, and made a
Inoise like a bell.
                     dare say you won't believe me ; but 'pon honour
I'm speaking truth -- noblesse oblige, you know; and it hadn't been
taught at all, and perhaps if it had it wouldn't have learnt : but it did,

and it was in a monkey's tail. No, stop, it must have been in its head,

because it was in its brain ; and every one has brains in his head, unless

he's a skeleton ; and it curled its tail round things like a monkey, that

II know, for saw it with my own eyes. That was Professor Rolleston's

theory, you know. It was Professor Huxley said it was in his tail -- not

Mr. Huxley's, of course, but the ape's : only apes have no tails, so I

don't quite see that. And then the other gentleman who got up last,

Mr. Flower, you know, he said that it was all over the ape, everywhere.

All over hippocampuses, from head to foot, poor beast, like a dog all
Iover ticks !
               wonder why they don't rub bluestone into the back of its
Ineck, as one does to a pointer. Well, then. Where was ? Oh ! and

Professor Owen said it wasn't in apes at all : but only in the order

bimana, that's you and me. Well, he knows best. And they all know

142 Charies Kingsley.

best too, for they are monstrous clever fellows. So one must be right,

and all the rest wrong, or else one of them wrong, and all the rest right
--you see that ? I wonder why they don't toss up about                    If they
if a

                               it,
                                             a
                                                                                    a
                                                                                                              it.

                                                                               if
took half-crown now, or shilling, or even fourpenny-piece would

do, they magnified           and tost heads and tails, or Newmarket, they

wanted to be quite sure, why then there couldn't be any dispute among
gentlemen after that, of course. Well, then, about men being apes,
                                                          is
say, why shouldn't be the other way, and the apes be men do youa
a
      ?                                                         I ;I
                                                                                  ?
                 if
                       it                                                     if

                             it                                              it I
                                  if
                                          it

                                       if
see Because then they might have as many hippocampuses in their

brains as they liked, or hippopotamuses either, indeed.                   should be

glad indeed       was so,              was only for my aunt's sake for she says

that her clergyman says, that anybody ever finds hippopotamus in
  monkey's head, nothing will save her great, great, great -- can't say

how great, you see -- it's awful to think of-- quite enormous grandfather

from having been monkey too and then what to become of her
a                                      ;
    it                                     ;

                 ?                          I
                          a                       I
precious soul So, for my aunt's sake, should be very glad

could be settled that way, really and am sure the scientific gentlemen

will take into consideration, because they are gentlemen, as every onea
knows, and would not hurt lady's feelings. The man who would
strike woman, you know-- everybody knows that, it's in Shakespeare.

And besides, the niggers say that monkeys are men, only they won't

work for fear of being made to talk no, won't talk for fear of being
                                              ;

                                                   II
                                                                              !)

                                                                    I

                                                                                                   a
made to work that's (right for once, as live and put their hands

over their eyes at night for fear of seeing the old gentleman -- and I'm
             ;
                         a

                         it
sure that's just like reasonable creature, used to when was little

boy and you see the niggers have lived among them for thousands of
;;
      ;years, and are monstrous like them, too, d'ye see, and so they must know

         abest and thenwould be all right.
                  about gulf. Professor
   " Well, then,  it                          Huxley      says  there's   a gulf

                                 a

between man and an ape. I'm sure I'm glad of especially the
                                                          ? it,

                                                              I

                                                                          if

                                                                                           ?
ape bit and Professor Owen says there ain't. What am wrong, eh

Of course. Yes --beg thousand pardons, really now. Of course --
                  a
Professor Owen says there                  and Professor Huxley says there aint.
                          it a

                                        :

                               if is,
Well, fellow can't recollect everything. But say,               there's gulf,
a                                             is,

                                                    I
                                                        I

                                                                 if

                                                                                               :a
the ape might get over and bite one after all.            know Quintus Cur-
tius jumped over gulf at Eton --that certainly, he jumped in but

that was his fault, you see              he'd put in more powder he might have

cleared and then there would have been no gulf between him and anit,

ape. But that don't matter so much, because Professor Huxley said the

gulf was bridged over by structure. Now am sure don't wish to
                                    a         I
                                                          I

be personal, especially      after the very   handsome    way in which    Professor
Huxley has drunk all         our healths.                   It's we that   ought to
                                              Stop --no.

                         Theory of Degradation.                                    1 43

drink his health, I'm sure, Highland honours and all ; but at the same

Itime should have been obliged to him if he'd told us a little more

about this structure, especially considering what nasty mischievous
things apes are. Tore one of my coat tails off at the Zoological the

I Iother day. He ought -- no, don't say that, because it would seem like

dictation, don't like that ; never could do it at school -- wrote it down

all wrong--got swished --hate dictation :-- but I might humbly express

that Professor Huxley might have told us a little, you see, about that

structure. Was it wood ? Was it iron ? Was it silver and gold, like

London Bridge when Lady Lee danced over
                                                  ?
                                                              it,

                                                                aI

                                                                            it
                                                           before was washed
                                                  No, stop, say --That can't
away by man with pipe in his mouth
       a

         I
                Ia

                              a
                                              aa
be. A man with pipe in his mouthwash away bridge? Why                              a

fellow can't work hard with pipe in his mouth -- every body knows
that --much less wash away whole bridge. No, it's quite absurd --

quite. Only say, should like to know something about this structure,if?
     was only to quiet my aunt. And then, Professor Huxley can seeit
                                                    if
the structure, why can't Professor Owen It can't be invisible, you

know, unless was painted invisible green, like Ben Hall's new bridge
              it
at Chelsea only you can see that of course, for you have to pay nowit
          I:
when you go over, so suppose the green ain't the right colour. But
that's another reason why want them to toss up -- toss up, you see,I
                           II I
whether they saw or not, or which of them should see
                                                                a;              or some
                                                                      it,

                                                                        if
thing of that kind, I'm sure that's the only way to settle and -- oh, by-
the-bye, as said before -- only didn't, but ought to have -- either
                                 I                II

of the gentlemen havn't half-a-crown about them, why two-shilling-

piece might do though never carry them myself, for fear of giving
              ;;
one to keeper and then he sets you down for screw, you know.
       a       I                                           ;

Because, you see, see, don't quite see, and no offence to honourablea
members --learned and eloquent gentlemen, mean and though don't
                                                                                I

wish to dictate, don't quite think ladies and gentlemen quite see either.
              ?
You see that
               I

   (The noble lord, who had expressed so accurately the general
sense of the meeting, sat down amid loud applause.)"

                               TO PROFESSOR ROLLESTON.is                        I

                                                                           Cambridge, October 12, 1862.Ia

   " Many thanks for the paper. It most satisfactory, and am gladis

to see that you incline to my belief, which hardly dare state in these
days, even to those who call themselves spiritual, viz., that the soul of
each living being down to the lowest, secretes the body thereof, as
snail secretes its shell, and that the body nothing more than the

144 Charies Kingsley.

expression in terms of matter, of the stage of development to which the
Ifbeing has arrived.
                      that isn't awful doctrine, what is ? and yet it is in
my mind strictly philosophical and strictly orthodox ; but I am not
going to tell any one what I have just told you. I wish you would

envisager that gorilla brain for once in a way, and the baboon brain

Ialso under the fancy of their being degraded forms.

   " shall torment you and your compeers with my degradation theory,

till you give me a plain Yes or No from facts."

   The cotton famine in the North, which occurred now, roused
many thoughts and feelings in his mind and heart, and led to
a correspondence in the " Times " and elsewhere, of which the
following letter to the editor of the " Times " is perhaps the most
characteristic.

" The thanks of all Wessex men are due to you, for your article of

Friday, contrasting the poor rates of Wessex with those of Lancashire.
   " Time was, when we had many and grievous faults (not quite extinct

yet) and you told us of them sharply and honestly. You have now

brought forward a redeeming point in our conduct, and we thank you

for The world will now know, that though there has been great
it.

                                                              it

                                                                                                                                     a
deal of foul linen in Wessex, yet we washed at home.

   "Whatever our Dorsetshire squires did, they never asked Queen
Victoria to open her private purse in order to take their cottagers'

blankets out of the pawn-shop. Whatever the Andover guardians did,

they never informed England that Andover would do her duty time
;

                      it, It
                                                                       ;
                                                                                                    in
                                                                                                                             ;
but that till they considered that the time was come, England must do

their duty for them.            pleased us in Wessex to keep our land ill-

cultivated and our labourers depressed but we paid for our hobby our

selves and sunk in as you say, no less than eight millions in the

last seventeen years. And now we are asked in addition to our own
poor rates to contribute to the poor's rates of Lancashire --for all gifts

and subscriptions of ours will be nothing else than contributions to poor's

rates. We shall do but grudgingly and of necessity,' am sorry to
is,                                                                                            ?

  I                                                                                                 I

                        a
                                  it,

                                                                   '
say, and in any thing but the spirit of                                                   cheerful giver,' as far as the
                                                                             it
                                                                     How can
                                                                                   a
                                                                    who has a          '
rat"epaykenrsoware  concerned.                                                 be otherwise
                     clergyman                                                 living (actual  gross, not rateable

value) of the huge sum of £600                                        a        year. Out of that he has been

paying, for the last twenty years, more than ^100 in poor's rates. That

he has sunk in the relief of the poor more than ^2000, besides his

subscriptions and private charities. His parishioners have, of course,

been paying poor's rates at nearly the same ratio of three shillings and

                        Lancashire Distress.                                                145

            'Ifourpence in the pound. 'And now,' he says,                    am asked to con

            tribute, and to persuade my parishioners to contribute, to the aid of a

county which it appears has    been paying poor's rates                       at less than  half
that ratio, and which now, if  it chose to tax itself by                                    one
                                                                             one such a "
and threepenny rate " as we have had often three times in a year, might
Ifurnish for its poor ,£40,000 a week for the next three months.
                                                                                            am

asked, too, to contribute clothes and bedding to a district where every

pawnbroker's shop is already teeming with clothes and bedding, pawned
of course at far less than their real value, and therefore all the more

easily redeemable, and thereby to enable the Lancashire pawnbrokers
to make their fortunes out of the glut. I shall do
                                                                             of course, but
                                                                             it,
                                                                                              is

                                                                                           II
under false pretences.  dare not tell them the facts of the case.
                        'I
should        rouse  their indignation.I      should button    up their pockets.                of
should        make   my honest farmers                       all we used to hear
                                         say, " Well, then

the ways of these Manchester cotton spinners, forty years ago, true
after all. You used to tell us that they were altered, civilized, grown

generous, and public-spirited, and setting us an example as to how we

should behave to our labourers. Perhaps some of them may but for
                                                                             ;

the mass of the Lancashire men, let their poor's rates be judge between

them and us. Meanwhile, they may take        care of their                   poor, and we
shall take care of ours."                    farmers say.                    But they will,

   " So says the clergyman, and so will the

            verily believe, give largely nevertheless. Nothing can be more
I
masterly than the game which the Lancashire boards of guardians seem
           a
            to be playing. They count correctly on John Bull's impatient gene
            rosity. They know that we cannot compel them (at least at present) to

            tax themselves as highly as they ought. They know that we cannot

            wait to see their paupers starve. Their move                     perfectly successful.
                     :

                                a

                                                ;

                                               I

                                                                         is
            Let them have full credit for it.
               " And meanwhile, let those who see school children * robbed of their

            little savings, and delicate ladies starving themselves into illness, to save
            here shilling and there shilling for the Lancashire folk, and know

            that in the chain of cause and effect, the actual fate of that hard wrung

            shilling will be, to enable some rich man of Lancashire to escape the

giving up some tawdry luxury let them, beg, exercise the English

man's right, to give but while he gives, to grumble, and to remember,

that these very Lancashire men have directly helped to cause the pre
sent distress and the present war, by their determination to use exclu

   * The school children of Eversley and many of the poor, as well as the little

shopkeepers, brought their money weekly to the Rectory to be forwarded to the

North.
         vol. n.
                                                                                L

146 Charles Kingsley.

sively slave-grown cotton ; developing thereby, alike slavery itself, and
the political power of the slave owners."

                  TO J. THOMPSON, ESQ.

                  (Of the Pin Mills, Manchester.)

                                              Eversley, April 8, 1863.

I" thank you much for your valuable and interesting letter.
I" Believe me, do not consider selfishness as the mark of a Man
Ichester man.
               know that there are many high-minded and excellent
men in Lancashire as elsewhere ; but I know, too, that the motive of

Ithe average (which means the great majority) of any class of human

beings is selfishness, unless woke up (as believe many manufacturers

have been) by some great disaster, to some noble purpose. And it is
against the average selfishness of man that we must always guard.

  " I can understand your feelings, who talk of men who have worked

for your father and grand-father; would to heaven that wholesome

feudal feeling was more common everywhere ; would that the firms who

could say the same were more numerous. But you must know, as well

as I, that during the last few years, new men have sprung up in hun
dreds -- investing their all in new mills, and their profits in new mills

again, till the bubble burst and left them paupers. It is against the
cupidity and stupidity of these men that the workmen --and, indeed, the
old sound manufacturers --must be defended.
I" But the tone of your letter is such, that
                                              shall be heartily glad to
Itake counsel with you, if you will give it hereafter. Believe me, mean
nothing but what is fair and right. That I am cross with the Lanca
shire men I don't deny, and my reason
                         I             that their leaders concealed
                                         is,

                                       I
                                                                           a
carefully the broad fact, that the present distress came not merely from

the American war, but from the over production of the last few years,

and must have happened, more or less, in any case. There were those

who concealed this fact, in order, suppose, to make out better case

to the British public and the many honourable men who ought to have
   is
told the whole truth, seem to me to have been culpably silent. Excuseis ;

my saying this. It best to start on a clear understanding with any

one whom one really inclined to listen to, as am to you."

I  " have just received                                   Eversley, April 14, 1863.

are one to whom canI     your most interesting letter, and see that you
information boldly.      speak openly, and from whom can ask for
                                                   I

                   Wages in North and South.                                                   147

    " Mr. Hugh Mason's name is very well known to me from the events
of the last year. I should comment on his letter thus :--
    "
            The wages of my people    are not gs., but average 1 1 s. per week, to
        1.

which you must    add, in  a family,   5^. more a  week   for  women  and children's
                  double    that.     Harvesting,    say       more,  a garden, pig,
earning -- often                                          ^5
and often geese ; * and our people are not so ill off as he thinks, though,
heaven knows, far worse off than they ought to be if the world would

only obey the laws of God.
    "As to the parsons, I am sure that with all the ignorance and
Ifanaticism of some of them -- on which              am as hard as any man --

there is no body of men in England who work so hard for others, from

the mere knowledge that it is their duty, and no body of men who give

half or a quarter as much in charity and other good works, in proportion

to their incomes. Sir, the amount of good done, or tried to be done, by

hundreds, ay, thousands of parsons, who have to keep up the appear
ance of gentlemen on the income of a skilled iron workman at Preston

or  Sheffield, will never  be   known    till the last day.
                           but   right,
    " I am not wrong,                    when I say that       over  production has

been kept out of sight. Carefully watching what the Manchester party

and their organs have said, I cannot recollect an allusion to Cobden

and * * * have been carefully silent on the point. As for the Times
                                         it it,

                                              I

                                               I
                                                                                  is,
                                                                                            it.
                                                                            II
having suppressed letters on that point, the plain answer that the Times

has attributed, again and again, the ruin to over production, and that

believe that the Times was aware of as was, from the beginning, and

believe held its tongue as long as       could, as did, and have done to

this day, for fear of injuring the suffering workmen by cooling the heat

of benevolence.
   " Mr. Mason, and you too, wish me to come down and visit your

mills. My dear sir, am not insensible to the kindness of your offer
    if                                                                                                 it ;

         I
                    I
and you will allow me, at some future time, to accept your most kind

invitation, shall be most delighted to do so. But shall learn little
                                    I
or nothing of the matter in hand         thereby.    already,  men well                        treated,
   " shall see, doubt not, as                              ithave seen
    I
                I                                             I

                                                                                            a
everything done for their civilization and improvement, and picture of

industrial health, and of honourable human bonds between employer

and employed, that will gladden my heart, as has often gladdened

ere now. For your manufacturing districts are not unknown to me, as

you fancy. But that would be like judging of agriculture and the status

of the agricultural labourer from what   I  saw at the homes of the very

                  This was before the enclosure of Eversley Common.

148 Charles Kingsley.

men who would ask one --the good landlords and the good farmers ; or
of American slavery from the men who would ask one -- for example, my

friend, Mr. Mason, the southern commissioner. I have watched society

long enough to know that the average manufacturer is not a Sir Elkanah
Armitage, or the average landlord a Mr. Walter of the Times, or the

ave"raIgkensohwoptkheaetpbeer loaw  Swan and   Edgar, and so forth.  in  humanity) the
                                               mean in money, but
                                     (I don't
class who would ask me, and show me all that was to be seen, with

honest pride, lies the average mass of mankind asking, not ' How much
I Igood ought
              to do ? ' but ' How much good need do ? ' even if they

ask that.     II say it with some fear, lest        should be misunderstood.

   " Next.

When any gentleman boasts to me that the earnings of his workpeople

Iaverage 16s. a week, man, woman, and child, am inclined to answer,
so much the worse for them. It is a very great question whether such

high wages are a benefit, without a corresponding high education. You
must know well (for I do) that most of them do not know what to do
with their money, and waste it on drink, on rich food, on finery, <fec.

IGod knows, do not grudge it them ; but the waste, and the temptation
to coarse self-indulgence, is extreme. And I was quite shocked,

knowing how great the earnings had been during the last few years, to

find only ,£270,000                 recollect rightly) in the Lancashire savings
        I
                      (Iif
banks.        know the sum struck me as one-fourth what should have
                                                                         a it
been.                                          you will excuse me)                 if is,that the
                                                                                          Hence
   " Another great evil of your system
                                               ;

                                                        (if

                                                          I
children earn wages too nearly equal to those of their parents.

the family broken up, the children are independent too early, boys
and girls go off and live in lodgings of their own, and so great deal of
              is
                         is  engendered that fact have from the mouths of
fearful profligacy

masters.                                                        is    that mill-labour

   " Another great evil, by the masters' own account,

effeminates the men, and renders them unfit for any other sort of

labour.             true, know not. But conceive                         to be, true,
                    is                                          I it,                                                     a
   " How far this
                          I                                         it

                                           is is

                                               I
very great evil. That large bodies of men should be employed in

exclusively performing day after day, the same minute mechanical opera

tion, till their whole intellect               concentrated on        and their fingers

kept delicate for the purpose,                 to me shocking.       would gladly see

such men emigrate, even though they fared badly at first, because the

life of a colonist would, by calling out the whole man, raise them in

bod" yNoanwd  mind enormously.       blaming   the  masters at all.            It                                         merely
               say all this without
            I

                                                                                                                      is

                        The Manchester School.            149

Ia result of inevitable circumstance. But when am told that the Lan

Icashire system is perfect, and ought to be permanent, and helped

towards permanence by the alms of a whole nation, answer : It is not
perfect at all. It is fortuitous, barbaric, exceptional, transitional. We

thank the masters for   it it,  because          a is it  has called great population into
                                                          ;
existence, who otherwise would not have been born.              ahas created

                                                                          It

                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                is
great wealth. It has civilized somewhat at least, tens of thousands who

would have been languishing in Irish bogs or English workhouses but,

like all things of rapid growth,             it           hollow and insecure, and here its

fall. has collapsed at the first real shock and what wise men must
    is

      It
do, to help out of            as soon as possible as many workmen as are

sufficiently civilized to emigrate to manlier and healthier sphere of life,

and to supply their places, fresh hands be needed, by less civilized
                                if

beings, who may be raised and trained in the transitional school of Lan

cashire work.                                             find Mr. * » * and the organs
   " But am justly indignant, when               I        *
         I
                                                                                              '

                                                                                            is
itnoof ttoshyeisntsMeumaltnacathlleatslhlt)aetar sfsoctuhhreo-foimfl,thoshdeoolldfoinEfgnhguluampnadnthhisosoldcLsiaentdycea--asrh,t--airkeitnhgseysmttheoemnira(rswcthahynic,dhtohne

government, the church, the army, the navy, the landlords, the sturdy

agricultural peasant and after doing more than all the demagogues to
set class against class, accusing me of setting class against class under
                 ;
                                          '
well-known Satanic influences (the actual words of the Morning Star),
because interfere to see common justice done to the British public and
    II I
to the Lancashire workman.
   " My rule to strike very seldom, making myself first sure of my facts
              is

                         I
(which were correct last autumn, and are correct now, let Mr. Hugh
Mason, from his own point of view, deny them as he will). But when
strike, strike as hard as can. And, unless the emigration movement
                                                          I
                                                             I

                                                                            I
(which am happy to see the Mayor of Manchester and other influential
men of the north are taking up) goes on vigorously, shall strike again.

For such men as you, from your letters, seem to be (and know there are
hundreds such), have nothing but respect, and am ready to explain
              I

and apologize for any words which may seem to confound them with

the mass.               was the only free-trade parson for miles round
                      I                                   I in
   " Years since, when  I                                     I

                                                                                ;
                                                                                                          ,
   fought similar battle against landlords and farmers, sparing none
I   I
           a
whom thought guilty.            have found that by so doing did not lose

their respect. Angry as they were at the time with me, their English

justice and common sense confessed me slowly to be the right and no

one better friends with squire and farmer now, than who was looked
    is
      a
on as firebrand once.

150 Charles Kingsley.

  I" And that, trust, will be my fate, in good time, with the good sense

and honesty of Lancashire.

  "P.S. -- You may do what you choose with this letter. What I say
Ito you say to any man. Pray thank Mr. Job for me for his clear and

business-like letter on emigration."

  A new volume of sermons, " Town and Country Sermons,"

had recently been published. They were dedicated to his
" most kind and faithful friend," the Dean of Windsor,* and
contained several preached at Windsor and at Whitehall, with
some of the deepest and most characteristic of his Eversley
sermons--particularly "The Rock of Ages," "The Wrath of
Love," " Pardon and Peace," and one most important one on the
Athanasian Creed, called " The Knowledge of God."

                            · The Hon. and Very Rev. Gerald Wellesley.

               CHAPTER XXII.

                                                                1863.

                                                       Aged 44.

FELLOW OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY-- WORK AT CAMBRIDGE-- PRINCE OF
      WALES'S WEDDING--WELLINGTON COLLEGE CHAPEL AND MUSEUM-- LETTER
      FROM 1JR. BENSON-- LECTURE AT WELLINGTON AND MEMORIAL -- LETTERS TO
      SIR CHARLES LYELL, TO MR. PENGELLY, ON BEEKITES-- TO MR. BATES,
      ON MOCKING BUTTERFLIES -- WHITCHURCH STILL-LIFE -- TOADS IN HOLES--
      D.C.L. DEGREE AT OXFORD-- BISHOP COLENSO-- SERMONS ON THE PPNTA-
      TEUCH --THE WATERBABIES-- LETTER ON THE ARTICLES-- FAILING HEALTH,

How seldom, friend, a good great man inherits
Honour or wealth, with all his toil and pains.
It sounds like stories from the land of spirits,

If any man obtain that which he merits,

Or any merit, that which he obtains.
           For shame, dear friend ! renounce this canting strain.

What would'st thou have the good great man obtain?

Place, titles, recompense ? a gilded chain,
Or throne of corses that his sword hath slain ?
Hath he not always treasures, always friends,
The good great man ? Three treasures, Love and Light,
And calm thoughts, regular as infant's breath ;
And three firm friends, more sure than day and night,
Himself, his Maker, and the angel -- Death.

                                                                                              COLERIDGE.

                  CHAPTER XXII.

   PROFESSOR KINGSLEY had this year the honour of adding three
letters to his name by being made a Fellow of the Geological
Society. He was proposed by his kind friend Sir Charles Bun-
bury, and seconded by Sir Charles Lyell. " To belong to the
Geological Society," he says in a letter to the former, " has long

been an ambition of mine, but I feel how little I know, and how
unworthy I am to mix with the really great men who belong to it.
So strongly do I feel this, that if you told me plainly that I had no
right to expect such an honour, I should placidly acquiesce in
what I already feel to be true." The F.G.S. came as a counter

balance to his rejection at Oxford for the distinction of D.C.L.,
which his friends there proposed to confer on him.

   The year was spent almost entirely at Eversley, for he found
the salary of his Professorship did not admit of his keeping two
homes and of moving his family backwards and forwards to
Cambridge. He was therefore forced to part with his Cambridge
house, and to go up twice a year merely, for the time required for

his lectures (twelve to sixteen in number), and again at the

examination of his class for degrees. He deeply regretted this
necessity, as it prevented his knowing the men in his class per
sonally, which he had made a point of doing during the first two
years of his residence, when they came to his house, and many
charming evenings were spent in easy intercourse between the
Professor and his pupils, who met then on equal terms. From
the first he made it one of his most important duties to do
what he could to bridge over a gulf which in his own day had
been a very wide one between Dons and Students. That he had
succeeded in doing this was proved by members of his class,
writing to consult him after they left Cambridge on their studies,
their professions, and their religious difficulties, in a way that

154 Charles Kingsley.

showed their perfect confidence in his sympathy ; and had circum
stances allowed of his residing at Cambridge, his personal in
fluence would have been still greater. One young man who was
going into the ministry, whose cure was to be in the manufac
turing districts, wrote to consult him on the subject of preaching

especially.

" Permit me, while asking your advice on this point and forgiveness

for the intrusion, to thank you very much for the work you have begun

in me, and which I know your exertions have spread among the under

graduates of Cambridge. Speaking from the experience of these three
years, there is no comparison between our status of thought now and

Ithat of i860 --chiefly, if not entirely, due to you. We are learning,

trust, to look very differently at our relations to our fellow men, at those

social duties which seldom appear important to young men in our posi

tion until we come across a mind like yours to guide us. We are learn

Iing above all, think, to esteem more highly this human nature we have,

seeing, as you show us in your books and words, how it has been con

secrated and raised by union with the God-made man. These are facts

easily spoken, but their influence on our future life, and consequently

upon those with whom we come in contact, may and doubtless will be

immense. For these large-hearted views of Christian principles I must
thank you. I could not leave Cambridge without testifying to you how

much your silent as well as expressed influence is felt among us. That
you will accept the grateful thanks of one insignificant member of our

body who is unknown to you, and that you may long be spared to

foster this truly noble and manly system in the midst of the rising

young  men,  is the  earnest  desire  of
                                       " Yours
                                                faithfully,

  I" Excuse a perfect stranger (writes an undergraduate      omfyJedsouusbtCso"lle(gaen)d,

but in no other quarter could hope for a solution of

.... "Iafter detailing those doubts and saying how the narrowness of some of the
clergy had repelled and shocked him, he adds)                seem to have

grasped a truth which came out in every one of your lectures here, that

the Governor of the world is a Righteous Governor, and that even our
contentions are working out His peace                        I make no apology,
for I believe your sympathy will be enlisted for me, tossed about as
II thus am.
             have listened to your teaching here with the deepest gra

....titude, for you have taught me that men's confusions only bring out

God's order."

           A Reality and not a Dream.                                 155

   Other letters might be given, but these, coming as they do

from men whose impressions were unbiassed by the strong love
and loyalty which personal intimacy never failed to call out, will
suffice to show something of the work he was doing.

   We now return to his own correspondence.

                   TO REV. E. PITCAIRN CAMPBELL.

" Glad to hear from you.                           Eversley, March 12, 1863.

                           IYour patterns of flies, which return, are

excellent (Brown Mackarel especially), and would kill well on chalk on

still and bright days. I send you my pet drake for average blowing
weather --rather bigger than yours, and a caperer and alder which can't

be beat.

  I" I hope we may come across each other somewhere this year, but
shan't go to Scotland or Ireland, I fancy.

  "At Inverary last August-- Hardly anything. River like a turn

pike road. Salmon asleep. They had to gaff to supply the house.

I had one jolly turn, though -- poached a 14-pounder with a triangle,
hooking him just behind the vent ; had an hour and three-quarters of
him, and killed him. Gilly and I fell into each other's arms --and
                   no " whusky  "
regretted  we had
                                    !
" We are just from the Royal Wedding --at least so I believe. We had
I(so seem to remember) excellent places. Mrs. Kingsley in the tem
Iporary gallery in the choir.   in the household gallery, both within 15
Iyards of what, am inclined to think, was really the Prince and Princess.
IBut I can't swear to it.  am not at all sure that I did not fall asleep

in the dear old chapel, with the banners and stalls fresh in my mind,

and dream and dream of Edward the Fourth's time. At least, I saw
live Knights of the Garter (myths to me till then). I saw real Prin

Icesses with diamond crowns, and trains, and fairies holding them up.
Isaw--what did I not see ? And only began to believe my eyes, when
Imet at the dejeuner certain of the knights whom knew, clothed and in

their right mind, like other folk ; and of the damsels and fairies many,

Iwho, believe, were also flesh and blood, for they talked and ate with

me, and vanished not away.

  I" But seriously, one real thing did see, and felt too-- the serious

grace and reverent dignity of my dear young Master, whose manner was
perfect. And one other real thing -- the Queen's sad face

I cannot tell you how auspicious I consider this event, or how happy it

has made the little knot of us, the Prince's household,* who love him

* Mr. Kingsley had recently been made one of the Prince's chaplains.

156 Charles Kingsley.

because we know him. I hear nothing but golden reports of the Prin
Icess from those who have known her long.
                                                look forward to some

opportunity of judging for myself.     What a heavy work ! How you
   " Thanks for your Charity Reports.

must want a run after the salmon every year !"

    His time this year was divided between his parish work and
 the study of science, and in corresponding with scientific men.
 Mr. Darwin's " Origin of Species " and his book on the " Fertili
 zation of Orchids," had opened a new world to him, and made
all that he saw around him, if possible, even more full of divine

 significance than before. Wellington College was a continual
 interest to him. He lectured to the boys, and helped them
to start a Museum. He felt bound to do all he could for Welling

 ton College, not only because his own son was there, and from
his warm friendship with Dr. Benson, then head-master ; but
because he looked upon the place as a memorial of the great
 Prince under whose fostering care it had risen into importance,
as well as of the great Duke whose name it bore. The boys
were continually at the Rectory, and Mr. Kingsley was always
present at their great days, whether for the speeches or their

athletic sports.

    The beautiful chapel, the first stone of which had been laid by
the Prince Consort, was consecrated on the 16th of July, by
Samuel, Bishop of Oxford, who in his sermon thus speaks of its

lamented president.

    " And now already, almost as soon as it has been founded, another
memory (besides that of the Great Duke) entwines itself with the first.
He who so justly realised its original design ; he who was its first presi

dent, who nourished with such a royal magnificence and such a wise care
its first beginnings ; who planned all the details of its execution ; who
selected even the statues which were to look down from its niches ;

who designed its avenues, and planted the trees which are to grow into
them : he, too, is taken, and the College of his care, and especially
this Chapel, the foundation of which, as one of the last acts of his life
of ceaseless beneficence, he himself laid, have become a commemora
tion of the Great and Good Prince, for whom this land has wept, as it

weeps most seldom, and for very few."

Mr. Kingsley's Lecture on Natural History and the Memorial

          Photographs of the Past.                                     157

he drew up for the Museum plan may well be prefaced by a
letter from Dr. Benson, characteristic alike of the writer and his

subject.

" My                           The Chancery, Lincoln, Sunday, July 11, 1875.
          dear Mrs. Kingsley,
           " Our coming to Wellington College and going away again

was to you, in your long life at Eversley, with all its variety of persons

and things and all its vividness, one among many shadows that came

and   went. But to us it was   very different.     and  leading  men,  espe
                               intervals to great
   "  It brought one close at

cially to the group whose names cast light about the Prince Consort,

Iwho loved them well ; and it would seem to you overstrained if were

to write down the intensity of interest with which all that Mr. Kingsley

said, or did, or looked, was invested, from the day when, near twenty

years ago, Canon Lightfoot and I walked over to look at his house.

Many a maxim, ' fresh from life,' many a flash of bright thought are

Iamong my possessions for ever -- his gift. And to how many young men

  tell untired that, if they are to have the people's hearts, they must try

to be in their parishes the Rector of Eversley, in their small way.
   " How kind he was in some most serious circumstances to me, you

know -- always kind and always sound in counsel. But indeed you would

be weary of my saying what every one says to you, and would find all
Ithat you know, and all that have experienced, put with infinitely poorer
Imodes than am sure are moving
                                 always before your      eyes and ears.  at
   " How bright some of my own  photographs are.        Those evenings
Eversley -- certain lyings on the grass --two or three sermons --a service
at Bramshill --one or two rides --half a dozen walks -- turns round the
Wellington Cloisters --those lectures -- some talks about Maurice -- about
classics -- about history -- about West Indies. Oh ! dear Mrs. Kingsley,
how I wish I could express half my gratitude to him, or half the grati
Itude feel to you who always promoted my seeing of him all that my

busy moments allowed. But you are occupied with greater thoughts of
him --what he was to England and its youth and manhood, and thoughts

of the inner circle, where all men know that he was to his children and
servants a yet ' finer gentleman,' to use the grand old English word he

loved to use, than he was in the finest circles.                       It was

  " As I write on I feel that what I owe him is more than most.

a great thing to see his noble words lit up with his noble life, and to see

how, great as his gifts were, they were most fully at the service of his
Ihumblest parishioners.  never did, and I believe I never shall, see

anything that spoke so loud for the Church of England as never to be

158 Charles Kingsley.

put away, as did the morning service in Eversley Church, whether

he read or whether he preached  There was a bold sketch
of Mr. Kingsley in the Spectator in his squire-like aspect, and I
think it was true. But I know that an equally true sketch might

be made of him as a parish priest, who would have delighted

George Herbert. The gentle, warm frankness with which he

talked on a summer  Sunday among the grassy and    flowery graves.
                    in which he walked, chatting,  over to Brams-
--The happy peace

hill chapel-school, and, after reading the evening service, preached

in his surplice with a chair-back for his pulpit, on the deeps of the

Athanasian Creed ; and, after thanking God for words that brought such

truths so near, bade the villagers mark that the very Creed which laid

such stress on faith, told them that ' they who did good would go into

everlasting life.' -- His striding across the ploughed field to ask a young

ploughman in the distance why he had not been at church on Sunday,
and ending his talk with ' Now, you know, John, your wife don't want

you lounging in bed half a Sunday morning. You get up and come to

church, and let her get your Sunday dinner and make the house tidy,

and then you mind your child in the afternoon while she comes to

church.' These, and many other scenes, are brightly before me. His

never remitted visits to sick and helpless, his knowledge of their every

malady, and every change of their hopes and fears ; the sternness and

the gentleness which he alternated so easily with foolish people ; the

great respectfulness of his tone to old folks, made the rectory and

church at Eversley the centre of the life of the men as well as their

children and wives. Gipsies on Hartford-bridge flats have told me they

considered Eversley their parish church wherever they went, and for his
own parishioners, ' every man jack of them,' as he said, was a steady

church-goer. But it was no wonder, for I never heard sermons with

which more pains had been taken than those which he made for his poor

people. There was so much, such deep teaching, conveyed in words

that were so plain. One on the conversion of St. Paul, and one on the

Church, I shall never forget. The awe and reverence of his manner of

celebrating the service was striking to any one who knew only his

novels. Strangers several times asked me, who saw him at service in

our own school-chapel, who it was who was so rapt in manner, who

bowed so low at the Gloria and the name of Jesus Christ ; and so I too

was surprised when he asked me, before preaching in his church, to use

only the Invocation of the Trinity ; and when I observed that he

celebrated the communion in the eastward position. This he loyally
Igave up on the Purchas judgment, ' because
                                             mind the law,' but

told me with what regret he discontinued what from his ordination

           Letter from Chancellor Benson.                                            159

he had always done, believing it the simple direction of the Prayer
Book.

   " An amusing incident happened once, which, I daresay, he never heard
of. A sub-editor, of a famous religious paper, once attended a chapel

service at Wellington, when Mr. Kingsley preached, and then withdrew

his son's name from our list, and prepared a leading article upon a sup
                                                                                     ' high.'
pos"edWhhaetada-lmwaasytsers, trwuchkosemedocintrinheimanwdasmathnenercawreereansdo  pains which  he

took with all that he undertook. Nothing was hurried, or slurred, or

dashing. ' I can tell you, I've spared no trouble upon it,' he said, when

we thanked him for the beautiful sermon on ' Wisdom and her seven

pillars,'  which he made for one of our days.*   he  helped                          us wonder
           the readiest and yet most modest way
   " In

fully. His presence looking on, helped our games into shape when we

began with fifty raw little boys, and our football exploits, twelve years
after, were as dear to him as to his son ; ' the Kingsley ' steeple-chase was

the event of the year. But in far higher ways he helped us. He wrote

an admirable paper for us, which was widely circulated, on School

Museums ; he prevailed on the Royal College of Surgeons, on Lady

Franklin, and other friends, to present the boys with many exquisite

natural history specimens, and started all our collections.
           lectures (of which I trust
   "His                                Isome of his notes exist) on natural history,
            on geology, were some
and two                                of the most brilliant things ever heard.

Facts and theories, and speculations, and imaginations of what had been

and might be, simply rivetted the attention of 200 or 300 boys for an
hour and a half or two hours, and many good proverbs of life sparkled

among these. Their great effect was that they roused so much interest.

At the same time his classification of facts such as the radiation of

plants (Heather for instance) from geographical centres, gave substantial
grounds for the work which he encouraged. ' Let us make a beginning
by knowing one little thing well, and getting roused as to what else is
to be known.'

   " Nothing was more delightful too, to our boys, than the way in which
he would come and make a little speech at the end of other occasional
winter lectures, Mr. Lowne's or Mr. Henslow's, or about balloons, or,
above all, when, at the close of a lecture of Mr. Barnes's, he harangued
us in pure Dorset dialect, to the surprise and delight of the Dorsetshire

poet.

   " In our many happy talks we scarcely ever agreed in our estimate of

mediaeval character or literature, but I learnt much from him. When

           * Published in " Discipline and other Sermons."

160 Charles Kingsley.

even St. Bernard was not appreciated by him, it is not surprising that
much of the life of those centuries was repulsive, and its religious

practice ' pure Buddhism,' as he used to say. At the same time, I never

shall forget how he turned over on a person who was declaiming against

'idolatry.' ' Let me tell you, sir,' (he said with that forcible stammer),
' that if you had had a chance you would have done the same, and worse.

The first idols were black stones, meteoric stones. And if you'd been

a poor naked fellow, scratching up the ground with your nails, when a

great lump of pyrites had suddenly half buried itself in the ground within

three yards of you, with a horrid noise and smell, don't you think you'd

                     it
                                             it,
                                                     it

                                                        it,
have gone down on your knees to and begged not to do again,
                                                             '                 I
and smoothed and oiled                   and anything else?'
" Greek life and feeling was dear to him in itself, and usually he wasis a it          it a it
                                                                                                    is
pen"etrFartoemd' with     thankfulness   that           formed so large part   of education.
                 that    and from the   Bible,        boys learn what must be
                                                                               learnt among

the grandest moral and spiritual reproofs of what base. Nothing so

fearful as to leave curiosity unslaked to help itself.' At other times he

doubted. Still,          iIf  measure rightly, he doubted only when he was so

possessed with the forest ardour, that he said, All politics, all discussions,

all philosophies of Europe, are so infinitely little in comparison with

those trees out there in the West Indies. Don't you think the brain

a fungoid growth         ?               could only find an artist to paint                    tree

                              O

                                      !

                                 in iIf
as see    it     iIs, 'In mentioning last this keen enjoyment of his in the
I
              !

earth as  it             seem to have inverted the due order but see as a
                                                             a'
solid, truthful background his soul of all the tenderness and lovingness,
                                                                           :
and spiritual strength in which he walked about convinced,' as a friend

once said to me of him,         that, as man and as           priest, he       thhearde.'go"t  the
devil under, and that         was his bounden duty to         keep him
                              it

                                  '
                                                   a

                 LECTURE AT WELLINGTON COLLEGE.

                                              June 25, 1863.
   " Young Gentlemen,

             " Your head-master, Dr. Benson, has done me the honour of
asking me to say little to you to-night about the Museum which in

contemplation, connected with this College, and how far you yourselves
I
can help it.  Ia
    " assure you
                                         a

                               I
                                             I

                                                                                 it,
                                                                                                               is

                                                                                                                                  a
                         do so gladly.                Anything which brings me in contact

with the boys of Wellington College, much more of helping forward

their improvement in the slightest degree, shall always look upon as

very great pleasure, and very serious duty.

   " Let me tell you, then, what think you may do for the Museum,

and how you may improve yourselves by doing without interfering

                 The Art of Learning.                                                                                 16 1

with your regular work. Of course, that must never be interfered with.
You are sent here to work. All of you here, I suppose, depend for your
success in life on your own exertions. None of you are born (luckily

for you) with a silver spoon in your mouths, to eat flapdoodle at other

people's expense, and live in luxury and idleness. Work you must, and

I don't doubt that work you will, and let nothing interfere with your

work.                                                                                          and morality, is

   " The first thing for a boy to learn, after obedience                                       It matters little
a habit of observation. A habit of using your eyes.

what you use them on, provided you do use them.
   " They say knowledge is power, and so it is. But only the knowledge

which you get by observation. Many a man is very learned in books,
and has read for years and years, and yet he is useless. He knows

about all sorts of things, but he can't do them. When you set him to do

work, he makes a mess of it. He is what is called a pedant : because
he has not used his eyes and ears. He has lived in books. He knows
nothing of the world about him, or of men and their ways, and therefore

he is left behind in the race of life by many a shrewd fellow who is

not half as book-learned as he : but who is a shrewd fellow --who
keeps his eyes open --who is always picking up new facts, and turning

Ithe"mNtoows, omedopna'rtticmuleaar n  use.  undervalue  book-learning.                        No man less.
                                         to

All ought to have some of                    and the time which you spend here
   it

       is
                  a
                           is,
                                                     ;

                                                         it,
                                                                                            a
on not whit too long but the great use of public-school educa

tion to you,      not so much to teach you things as to teach you
how to learn.
                 To give you the noble art of learning, which you can

use for yourselves in after-life on any matter to which you choose to

turn your mind. And what does the art of learning consist in First
                                                                                               it, a
and foremost, in the art of observing. That
                                       I,                                            the boy who uses his          ?

                                              a
                                                      is

                                                                            ?

                                                                       it,
                                                                                is,
eyes best on his book, and observes the words and letters of his lesson

most accurately and carefully, that the boy who learns his lesson best,

I  presume.

   "You know, as well as                     how one fellow will sit staring at his book

for an hour without knowing word about                                             while another will learn

the thing in quarter of an hour, and why Because one has actually
not seen the words. He has been thinking of something else, looking
   a
out of the window, repeating the words to himself like parrot. The
other fellow has simply, as we say, looked sharp.' He has looked atI
            it.                              '
                                                    it,                                        and therefore
the lesson with his whole mind, seen                     and seen into

knows all about

   "Therefore, say, that everything which helps a boy's powers of
observation helps his power of learning and know from experience
                                                         ;

                                                               I

1 62 Charles Kingsley.

that nothing helps that so much as the study of the world about

you, and especially of natural history. To be accustomed to watch

for curious objects, to know in a moment when you have come on
anything new -- which
                                   is observation. To            be quick at seeing when
things are like, and               when unlike--which
                                                                 is classification. All that
must, and I well know does, help to make a boy shrewd, earnest,

accurate, ready for whatever may happen. When we were little and

good, a long time ago, we used to have a jolly old book called
' Evenings at Home,' in which was a great story called Eyes and

No Eyes, and that story was of more use to me than any dozen
other stories I ever read.
" A regular old-fashioned formal story it but right good one, and
thus begins --                                                   is,
' it                                                                      a
                                                                             aa
                        :
                                                                                                        ?'
" Well, Robert, where have you been walking this afternoon                                                  said

Mr. Andrews, to one of his pupils, at the close of holiday. Oh, Robert

had been to Broom Heath, and round to Campmount, and home through
the meadows. But was very dull, he hardly saw single person. He
                           is
                                   it

                                                 ?
had rather by half have gone by the turnpike road.
   " But where William
   " Oh, William started with him, but he was so tedious, always stop

ping to look at this thing and that, that he would rather walk alone, and

so went on.

   " Presently in comes Master William, dressed no doubt as we wretched

boys used to be forty years ago, frill collar, and tight skeleton monkey

j--acketp, aairndotfiglhotwtrosuhsoeerss--buwthtoicnhed    over  it,and not       down to his ankles
a                                                        always      is,came off      stept into heavy
      aground --and terribly dirty and wet he                                   a
           a it
                                                                                if
                                                                 but he never had such a

pleasant walk in his life, and has brought home handkerchief full of

curiosities.                                                                        it                      and
                                                                                         a is,
   " He has got piece of mistletoe, and wants to know what
                           a
                                a
seen woodpecker and wheat-ear, and got strange flowers off the
                                   ;
heath, and hunted peewit because he thought its wing was broken, till
                                        a
of course led him into a bog and wet he got but he did not mind,
                                                                 ;
                                                                               ;
for in the bog he fell in with an old man cutting turf, who told him all

about turf cutting, and gave him an adder and then he went up hill,

and saw grand prospect, and wanted to go again and make out the

geography of the county by Carey's old county map -- which was our

only map in those days and because the place was called Campmount,

he looked for Roman camp and found one and then he went to the
                 a                                               ;

                                                                                                            a
ruin, and saw twenty things more, and so on, and so on, till he had

brought home curiosities enough and thoughts enough to last him

week.

                             Eyes and no Eyes.                                 163

    "Whereon Mr. Andrews, who seems a sensible old gentleman enough,

tells him all about his curiosities ; and then it turns out that Master
William has been over exactly the same ground as Master Robert, who

saw   nothing at   all.  Mr. Andrews, wisely  enough         in his  solemn,   old-
      Whereon     says
   "

fashioned way, ' So it is. One man walks through the world with his

eyes open, and another with them shut; and upon this difference depends

Iall the superiority of knowledge which one acquires over the other.

have known sailors who had been in all the quarters of the world, and

could tell you nothing but the signs of the tippling houses, and the price
and quality of the liquor. On the other hand, Franklin could not cross

the Channel without making observations useful to mankind. While

many a vacant thoughtless person is whirled through Europe without

gaining a single idea worth crossing the street for, the observing eye and
inquiring mind find matter of improvement and delight in every ramble.
Do you then, William, continue to make use of your eyes ; and you,

IIRo"beArnt,dlewahrnenthIarteaedyesthawtersetogryiveans
                                    you to use.'     said    to myself,  will be
                                   a little boy,
Mr. Eyes ; I will not be Mr. No Eyes, and Mr. Eyes I have tried to be
ever since ; and Mr. Eyes, I advise you, every one of you, to be, if you

wish to    be happy  and successful.    the   idle,  vacant,  useless    life which
   " Ah,   my dear
                     boys, if you knew

too many young men lead when their day's work is done, and done
spiritlessly, and therefore done ill, having nothing to fall back on but

the theatre, or billiards, or the gossip at their club, or if they be out in

a hot country, everlasting pale ale ; and continually tempted to sin, and
shame, and ruin, by their own idleness, while they miss opportunities of

making valuable discoveries, of distinguishing themselves, and helping

themselves forward in life ; then you would make it a duty to get a habit
of observing, no matter what you observe, and of having at least

some healthy and rational pursuit with which to fill up your leisure

hours.

   "The study of natural history, of antiquities, of geography, of

chemistry, any study which will occupy your minds, may be the means,
whether out on some foreign station, or home here, at work in London,
of keeping you out of temptation and misery, of which, thank God, you

as  "yeIt   know nothing.
           am happy to hear
                             that  there are  many   of you  who  don't  need  this

advice, some who are working well at chemistry, some who have already

begun to use your eyes, and to make collections of plants, insects, and

bird"s'Theagtgsi.s good as far as it goes. As for birdnesting, I think it a manly

164 Charles Kingsley.

Iand excellent pursuit ;* no one has worked harder at it than I, when

was young, or should like better to go bird-nesting now, if I was not

getting rather too stiff and heavy to bark up to a hawk's nest.

   " But see. Because every boy collects for himself, there is a great

deal of unnecessary destruction of eggs, especially of the small soft-billed

birds, which are easiest got, and are the very ones which ought to be

spared, on account of their great usefulness to the farmer in destroying
insects ; and next -- Pray, where will nine-tenths of those eggs be seen

a few days hence ? smashed, and in the dust-hole, and so of the insects

and plants.

   " Now it seems to me, that if fellows were collecting for a College

Museum, instead of every one for himself, it would save a great deal of

waste, and save the things themselves likewise.

  " As for a fellow liking to say, ' I have got this, and I will keep it to

myself, I like to have a better collection than any one else,' that is

natural enough ; but like a great many natural things, rather a low

feeling, if you will excuse my saying so. Which is better, to keep a

thing to yourselves, locked up in your own drawers, or to put them
into the common stock, for the pleasure of every one ? and which is

really more honour to you to be able to say to two or three of your

friends, ' I have got an egg which you have not,' or to have the egg, or

whatever else it may be, in a public collection, to be seen by every one,

by boys, years hence, after you are grown up. For myself, I can't think

of a better way of keeping up a corporate feeling in the college, and

binding the different generations, as they succeed each other, together
in one, than a museum of this kind, in which boys should see the names

of those who have gone before them, as having presented this or that

curious object.

  " So strongly do I feel
it,                         that have asked Dr. Benson's leave to

        ;

                     a
                               a

                                             it,

                                    it, I
give two prizes every year. One for the most rare and curious thing of

any kind-- whether in natural history, geology, antiquities, or anything

else fit for museum, which has been bona fide found by the boy him      a
self and a second prize for the most curious thing contributed by

boy, never mind how he has got provided only that he has not bought

for against that there are objections. That would give the boys with

ple"ntBy utofthmeoreneyare  chance which the others had not.   abroad,  or in the
                            so many of you who have relations

country, that you will be able to obtain from them rare and curious

   * He never allowed his own boys to take nests, or more than one, or at most twoa
eggs out of nest where there were several, so that the mother bird might not miss

them.

                 Holidays and How to Employ than.                                                \ 65

Iobjects which you could not collect yourselves, and advise you to turn

sturdy beggars, and get hold (by all fair means) of anything and every
thing worth putting in the Museum, and out of which you can coax or

beg   anybody whatsoever,              old or young.        am     ready  to           give  as  many
      And, mind, you will
   "                                  have help. I myself

curious things as I can, out of my own collections ; and if this Museum
had been started ten or twenty years ago, I could have given you a great

deal more, but my collections have been too much and often spoilt and

Ibroken, and at last the remnant given away in despair, just because
Ifhad no museum to put them in.                       there had been one where I was at
school, I could have saved for it hundreds of different things which are

now in dust-holes in half-a-dozen counties, and also should have had
Ithe heart to collect many things which
                                                            have let pass me, simply
Ibecause did not care to keep them, having nowhere to put them, and

Iso it  will be with you.       myself    as   an  example  of what  I  have           been  saying.
         only mentioned
   "
IBut it is not to me merely that you must look for help.
                                                                                       am happy to

say that you will be helped by many (I believe) real men of science,
who will send the Museum such things as are wanted to start it well.

To start it well with ' Typical Forms,' by which you can arrange and

classify what you find. They will as it were stake out the ground for

you, and you must fill up the gaps, and I don't doubt you will do
    I

                               if

                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                        it,
and"  well.  sure  you      can,          you will see now here         an opportunity of
        am
          a beginning -- during the
making                                         next vacation.  to  receive             contributions
   " Dr.  Benson has said that he              will be ready

from scientific men after the holidays. But he has guaranteed for you

in return, that some of you, at least, will begin collecting for the museum

dur"inWghtahte   holidays.  do  better    ?    IIam sure your holidays would be much
                can you                     ?

happier for it. don't think boys' holidays are general so very happy.
                 I                                             in

                        :                                          I
Mine used to be but why Because the moment got home, went
                                                                                       :

                                                                                        I
on with the same work in which employed every half-holiday natural

history and geology. But many boys seem to me in the holidays very
much like Jack when he paid off at Portsmouth. He suddenly free
from the discipline of ship-board. He has plenty of money in his pocket,
                                      is              aa
                                                                                   is
and he sets to, to have lark, and makes fool of himself till his money
                                is a
is  spent and then he very poor, and sick, and seedy, and cross, and
          ;
disgusted with himself, and longs to get fresh ship and go to work
again --as great many fellows, suspect, long for the holidays to bea
over. They suddenly change the regular discipline of work for complete
                                               I

                                                  is
idleness, and after the first burst over, they get very often tired, and

1 66 Charles Kingsley.

stupid, and cross, because they have nothing to do, except eating fruit

and tormenting their sisters.

   " How much better for them to have something to do like this.

Something which will not tire their minds, because it is quite different

from their school work, and therefore a true amusement, which lets

them cut the muses for awhile ; and something, too, which they can take
a pride in, because it is done of their own free will, and they can look

forward to putting their gains in the Museum when they come back, and

saying, ' This is my holiday work, this is what I have won for the College
Isince have been away.

   " Take this hint for your holidays, and take it too for after life. For

I am sure if you get up an interest for this Museum here, you will not

lose  it when you go away.     abroad,     perhaps    spend   much                         of your lives
      Many of you will go
   "

abroad, and I am sure you will use the opportunities you will then have

to enrich the Museum of the College, and be its benefactors each accord

                                   your
                                  young
Iing"
      to your powers throughout            lives.        which                             have more at
      But there is one interest,             gentlemen,
heart even than the interest of Wellington College, much as I love for
                                                                                                          it,
its own sake and for the sake of that great Prince beneath whose fostering
                                                                                                            I
shadow grew up, and to whom this College, like me myself, owes more
than we shall either of us ever repay yet there an interest which
           I it
               I

                        ;;
                                              a

                                                      is

                                                                             ;
                                                                                        a

                                                                                    is
have still more at heart, and that the interest of Science herself.
   " Ah, that could make you understand what an interest that is. The

interest of the health, the wealth, the wisdom of generations yet unborn.

Ah, that could make you understand what noble thing                                                it     to be
                                                                                                      is

men of science rich with sound learning which man can neither give

nor take away useful to thousands whom you have never seen, but who

may be blessing your name hundreds of years after you are mouldering
in the grave, the equals and the companions of the noblest and the most

powerful. Taking rank higher than even Queen Victoria herself can
           I

                            a
                                 a

                                                                        is

                                                                       it

                                                           I
giv"e,   by  right of that knowledge which power.        All                               can do  is  to hope
        But     must not expect you to see that yet.

that my fancy may be fulfilled hereafter, that this Museum may be the

starting point of school of scientific men, few may be in number, but

strong, because bound together by common affection for their College,

and their Museum, and each other. Scattered perhaps over the world,

but communicating their discoveries to each other without jealousy or

dispute, and sending home their prizes to enrich the stores of their old
Museum, and to teach the generations of lads who will be learning here,

wh"ileAhth, etyhaatreitgrown   men, doing  the work   of men over the world.
                        might  so happen.   Ah, that  even one great man of science

Science and Heroism.  167

might be bred up in these halls, one man who should discover a great
truth, or do a great deed for the benefit of his fellow men.

  If" this College and Museum could produce but one master of natural

knowledge, like Murchison or Lyell, Owen or Huxley, Faraday or
Grove, or even one great discoverer, like Ross, or Sturt, or Speke, who

has just solved the mystery of ages, the mystery after which Lucan

makes Julius Cassar long, as the highest summit of his ambition : to
leave others to conquer nations, while he himself sought for the hidden
sources of the Nile. Or, if it ever should produce one man able and
learned enough to do such a deed as that of my friend Clements Mark-
ham, who penetrated, in the face of danger and death, the trackless

forests of the Andes, to bring home thence the plants of Peruvian bark,
which transplanted into Hindostan, will save the lives of tens of thou

sands --English and Hindoos --then, young gentlemen, all the trouble,

Iall the care, which shall have been spent on this Museum -- had almost

said, upon this whole College, will have been well repaid."

   The following Memorial, written for circulation by Mr. Kings-
ley in reference to the Museum and Library, is inserted by the
wish of Dr. Benson :

   "The assistance of scientific men is requested on behalf of a Museum

and Library connected therewith, now about to be established at Welling

ton College.

   " The objects of this Museum and Library are :
   " 1. To help the education of the lads themselves, by calling out their
powers of observation and discrimination, and instilling into them a
general love of and respect for Nature. Neither the pursuit of natural
history and antiquities, nor any other pursuit whatsoever, can be allowed
to interfere with the regular studies of a public school. But such pursuits
may, it is hoped, be profitably set before the boys of Wellington College
(according to an idea of the Prince Consort), not as lessons which they
are required to learn systematically, but simply as new fields of thought
and interest. It is hoped, moreover, that a museum and scientific
library, by accustoming them to the sight of curious objects, properly

classified, may teach them much valuable knowledge without overtask
ing the brain, and may at the same time excite a desire to know more,
which will last through after life, and give employment to hours which
might otherwise be squandered in idleness.

   " 2. Next, it is hoped that the interests of science may ultimately be
advanced by such a plan. Many of the Wellington College boys will
hereafter obtain employment abroad ; and some of them at least may

1 68 Charles Kingsley.

have learnt enough natural science to be ready to perceive and send

home any curious object which they may meet; while those who have

any intuitive talent for the study of natural history and antiquities will

have a   fair chance   of developing that    talent as early as possible.   far   as
         is wished,   therefore, to collect    a museum, consisting, as
   " It

possible, of typical forms in zoology, botany, geology, antiquities,

and indeed in any class of objects which may be of practical use to the

lads hereafter. This museum may excite the lads to try how far they

themselves can complete the groups of each class ; and may thus
become valuable, not only for itself, but as the nucleus of a school of

observers to be scattered hereafter over the world, yet kept in com

munication    by the bond of school-fellowship.        have  long     felt  the  ad
             are many scientific men of note who
   " There

vantages of some such plan. To them the matter need only be stated,

to make them at once its advocates and supporters, and, it is hoped,

the donors of objects from their own collections.
   " The lads of the College, meanwhile, have begun to collect natural

objects during their play-hours, and will, many of them, continue to do

so during the coming vacation. After the vacation, the College will be

ready to receive thankfully any donations, whether of specimens or of

books, from gentlemen who are interested in the spread of science."

             TO SIR CHARLES LYELL, F.G.S., etc, etc

" My dear Sir Charles,                                 Eversley, April 28, 1863.

         " I have at last got through your big book* --big in all senses,
Ifor it is as full as an egg, and as pregnant. But have read specially the

chapter on the Analogy of Language and Natural History, and am
Idelighted.
             had no suspicion that so complete a case could be made

out. And it does not seem to me a mere ' illustration ' of the deceptive
kind used in Scotch sermons, whereby **** used to make anything

prove anything else ; but a real analogue, of the same inductive method

Iapplied to   a set of facts   homologous, though distinct.  at  the  Wellington
             very anxious     to see a Museum established
   " am

College, for training the boys in the knowledge of nature, and in the

pursuits of natural science. As most of the boys go abroad in after

life, it seems to open a great door for your scheme, of having educated

gentlemen-naturalists spread abroad, and in communication with each

Iother and with the societies at home, and shall soon go shamelessly

                              * " Antiquity of Man. "

          Bagshot Sands and Gravels.                       169

a-begging for typical forms of every kind, the intermediate gaps to be
filled up by the boys themselves."

I"        TO W. PENGELLY, ESQ., F.G.S., &c.

"   have been reading your interesting paper on Beekites of 1858.
  One thing always struck me about them, and the beds in which they
Iare found -- viz., the traces of active volcanic agency ; always suspect
volcanic springs where I find traces of water containing silex in solution.

I suspect flows of hot water, holding silex in solution, may have caused

our chalk flints.
   " But there are (to me) distinct proofs of the conglomerata of

Torquay having been deposited, some of them under active volcanic

agency. Froude, the historian, first pointed it out to me, when

bathing off the Beekite beds at the Thunderhole.        ' See,' he said,
' that every fragment of these older rocks is angular.  They have not

been rolled on a sea-beach. Have they not been blasted out of a
volcano ? ' At once there occurred to me the great similarity between

them and the dust and gravel beds of the Eifel, which I know well ;

and where, round each crater of explosion, you have vast (recent)
layers of dust and little angular bits of the Devonian strata, rasped by

steam off the lips of the crater.                   about  it and more
   "Do think over this action, unless you know all  about
                                                           the traps of
Ialready, and tell me where can find information

S. Devon, and their age."

          TO SIR C. BUNBURY.

                                                                    EVERSLEY, July 12, 1863.

" I see that Sir Charles Lyell says in his ' Antiquity of Man,' that the

whole of England south of the Thames was laid during the glacial
Iperiod.
          have collected facts which leave no doubt on my mind that

the whole of the Bagshot sand district was ice-travelled sea at that

period, and during that period rose slowly out of the sea. If Sir C.

Lyell has also come to that conclusion, and would do me the honour
to point out any place in which he has dealt with the district, I need

trouble him no further ; but if he still adheres to his former views, per

haps he would let me, with all humility, put before him my reasons for

a different opinion.

   " Let A B C be an escarpment of gravel, with a horizontal line of weep

ing springs as in (I). Let anything, softness of strata or other, determine
extra drainage to point B, then the escarpment must in time beat back
to B', and the points A and C become dry-- the outshed of water being
intercepted by the course A B1 C, before reaching A and C. This

I TO Charles Kingsley.

process will, in the course of ages, carry the outshed back to B:, the
escarpments A B2, C B2, becoming dryer as they near the promontories
A and C.

   " A similar process beginning at D, and working back to D, D2, would

form a long dry bank B2, C, D2, with a boggy valley on each side, such as
are common here.

                                                                           Da

AH                                            D. Lower Bagshot.
                                              E. Lower drift.
     A. Gravel dust.
      B. Upper Bagshot.                       F. London clay.
     C. Bracklesham clays

   " Rain falling on the flats percolates A and B, and is stopped by the
Brackleshams at C. It runs along C to the open air, and flows over

the Brackleshams, forming bogs, and eating out the escarpment A, B, C,

by a continuous horizontal line of springs at its base, which often over

hangs and crumbles from    5 to 6 feet at C.  to  E, where  it rests on  the
                           down slope C D,
   " The debris is washed

flat valley bottom of London gravel, and a second line of springs breaks

up through  it,  being thrown up off the surface of London clay (F).

These are foul and chalybeate. The upper springs are all exquisitely

pure and soft."

                Natural Theology and Science.                                              171

                    TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

  I" am very busy working out points of Natural Theology, by the
strange light of Huxley, Darwin, and Lyell. I think I shall come to
Isomething worth having before I have done. But am not going to

rush into print this seven years, for this reason : The state of the

scientific mind is most curious ; Darwin is conquering everywhere, and
rushing in like a flood, by the mere force of truth and fact. The one or

two who hold out are forced to try all sorts of subterfuges as to fact, or

else  by evoking the odium theologici'm                  got      rid  of an  interfering  God --a
      But they find that now they have
   "

master-magician, as I call it -- they have to choose between the

abs"oGlurtoevee'smptirreulyofgraecactidemntin, danhdasa  living,  immanent,    ever-working God.
                                                         seized   the latter  alternative already,

on the side of chemistry. Ansted, in his Rede Lecture, is feeling for
it in geology ; and so is Lyell ; and I, in my small way of zoology, am

urging it on Huxley, Rolleston, and Bates, who has just discovered
facts about certain butterflies in the valley of the Amazon, which have

filled me, and, I trust, others, with utter astonishment and awe. Verily,

God is great, or else there is no God at all.
   " That mystery of generation has been felt in all ages to be the crux,

the meeting point of heaven and earth, of God or no God ; and it is
being felt so now more intensely than ever. All turns on it

So does human thought come round again in cycles to the same

point ; but, thank God, each time with more and sounder knowledge.

All will be well, if we will but remember what is written : ' He that

believeth will not make haste.'

  "But I ought to say, that by far the best forward step in Natural

Theology has been made by an American, Dr. Asa Gray,* who has said
Ibetter than I can all that I want to say.
                                                                       send you his pamphlet,

entreating you to readis          especially pp. 28-49, which are in my eyes
                             it,
unanswerable.   between  me       and  ****              (we are most         intimate     and con

   " A passage

fidential, though more utterly opposed in thought than he to the general
                                                                              is
                                                                                             is
religious or other public), may amuse you. He says somewhere,

'  the ape's brain  almost exactly like the man's, and so                                        his

throat. See, then, what enormously different results may be produced

   * When in America, in 1874, Mr. Kingsley had the happiness of making acquaint's

ance with Professor Asa Gray, who among many other botanical works had lately
published his admirable little book for the young on "Climbing Plants." In an im
portant work just published in Boston (1876) on Darwinism, the Professor has made
quotations from Mr. Kingsley "Westminster Sermons."

172 Charles Kingsley.

by the slightest  difference  in structure    '           I tell him, ' not a bit ; you are

                                            !
Ifputting the cart before the horse, like the rest of the world.
                                                                                                you

won't believe my great new doctrine (which, by the bye, is as old as the

Greeks), that souls secrete their bodies, as snails do shells, you will remain
                              I know an ape's brain and throat are
in outer darkness
almost exactly like a man's -- and what does that prove ? That the ape is

a fool and a muff, who has tools very nearly as good as a man's, and

yet can't use them, while the man can do the most wonderful thing with

tools very little better than an ape's.

  " ' If men had had ape's bodies they would have got on very tolerably

with them, because they had men's souls to work the bodies with. While an

ape's soul in a man's body would be only a rather more filthy nuisance

Ithan he is now. You fancy that the axe uses the workman, say that the

workman uses the axe, and that though he can work rather better with

is
                                          a

                                           I
                                                                                is,
a good tool than a bad one, the great point                                          what sort of workman
he-- an ape- soul or human soul?'                                                    not going astray into
" Whereby you may perceive that
                                                          am

materialism as yet."

                      TO PROFESSOR HUXLEY.

   " Don't                                                         Eversley, June 28, 1863.
and men.
              take the trouble to answer this. In re great toes of apes
               Have you ever remarked the variableness of the hallux in

our race
   " The old Greek
      ?               it, isremarkable for small hallux and large second
           ?                  is
                                         a
toe, reaching beyond          and that held (and rightly) as the most perfect

form of the human foot. But in all modern Indo-Gothic races                                     the
            In all children which have seen (and have watched care                              is
same                          I                                                      I              it

                                    is                                                                I
fully) the hallux far larger and longer in proportion to the other toes
                  is
                        it
than in the Greek statues. This not caused (as commonly supposed)
by wearing shoes, for holds in the Irish children who have never worn

them.

   " Now surely such a variation in the size of the hallux gives proba

bility at least to your deductions from      its great variability                      in the   apes.
   " Science owes you the honour of         having demonstrated                           that  the hind

hand of the apes not hand, but true foot. Think over what
                      is
                                   a
                                                       a

have said."

              TO CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ., F.R.S., &c

                                                                         Eversley, June 14, 1863.I
   " have been reading with delight and instruction your paper on
climbing plants.

           Climbing Plants and Mocking Butterflies. 173

   " Your explanation of an old puzzle of mine --Lathyrus Nissolia --is a

master-piece. Nothing can be more conclusive. That of the filament
at the petiole-end of the bean is equally satisfactory.

  I" Ah, that could begin to study nature anew, now that you have

made it to me a live thing, not a dead collection of names. But my
work lies elsewhere now. Your work, nevertheless, helps mine at every

turn. It is better that the division of labour should be complete, and

that each man should do only one thing, while he looks on, as he finds
time, at what others are doing, and so gets laws from other sciences

Iwhich he can apply, as do, to my own."

    TO H. BATES, ESQ., F.R.S., &c, &c

                                         EVersLey, April 13, 1863.

I" ' Les beaux esprits se rencontrent.'  was in the act of writing off
to my bookseller for your delightful book, ' Travels on the Amazons,'

when to my surprise and pleasure it appeared last night with your
kind and flattering letter. It fell out thus. Clements Markham came

down to me, and found me in great wonder and admiration over your

extraordinary paper in the Linnean on the Mocking butterflies, and told

me of your new book ; and I agreed that I would write a review for

' Macmillan ' of poor Spruce's pamphlet, &c, Markham's translations
    it,
        it

         I it
                         ?
                           it
                           II
of the old Amazon voyages, and the Amazon in general.                            have
                                         it

                                                  ;

                                               I
                                                    I

                                                               it

                                                              I

                                                                                            ;
glanced at your book, and find all took for granted would be

and shall recommend  as strongly as possible.                          may have to ask

you some questions as to Wallace and Spruce that may do justice

to every one. Is Wallace who went to New Guinea, and brought
                            If so, know him.
home the birds of Paradise
" One thing more.
                     think your explanation of the Mocking butter

flies one of the best instances of Darwin's theories, explaining what
is

nothing else will that know. But have you not overlooked the causes
    I                                                                  "
                                                                            ..
of this adaptation which would greatly accelerate  it

                                                       ?
                                                                         .
                                                                              .

   Here he proposes to Mr. Bates at some length, as an explana
tion of the singular mimicry of form and colours between butter

flies belonging to entirely distinct families, possible intermarriage
                                         a
                                                            it
of individuals belonging to these distinct forms. The idea was a

crude one, as quickly abandoned as conceived, and                                need not
therefore, be given here. He concludes -- " May not these be

the descendants of true fertile hybrids (however rare) between
Ithomia, &c, and Leptalis at a remote epoch The possibility
                            I
                                                                    ?
of any one or all of these cases believe in. Pray think them

174 Charles Kingsley.

over, and give me your opinion if they seem to you anything

beyond nonsense."

   To Mr. Bates's kind reply, in which he rejected this theory,
Mr. Kingsley says in a second letter, which also goes into details
which would not interest the general reader :

  I" honestly bow to your superior knowledge. I am not aware of any
book in which cases of the kind I talked of are scientifically recorded.

It is a great want. For the popular notion ought either to be confirmed
or solemnly exploded. It is too important just now to be left in doubt.

" There is no physical cause discovered by the microscope why ova

should develope each according to its kind. To a philosopher, a hen

bringing forth a crocodile would not be so wonderful, as the hundred

thousands of hens never    bringing forth any thing but hens.  is to use
   " To talk of its being   done by laws impressed on matter,

mere words. How can a law be impressed on matter ? Is it in the

matter? Is it impressed thereon as a seal on wax ? Or even as a polar
Ifarrangement of parts on a solid ?
                                     so, it is discoverable by the micro
scope. But if ' it ' were found, that would not be a Law, but only a
present and temporary phenomenon -- an arrangement or formation of
particles for the time being -- not the Law or formative cause thereof;

and we should be just as far from the 'causa causativa' of the develop

ment as ever. I hope I am not boring you by all this. You will see

whither it is tending ; and it is the result of long and painful thought, in

Iwhich have been trying to bring my little logic and metaphysic to bear

--not on physical science herself, for she stands on her own ground,

microscope in hand, and will allow no intruder, however venerable; but

on the nomenclature of physical science, which is to me painfully con

fused, from a want in our scientific men of that logical training by which

things are rightly named, though they cannot be discovered thereby.
And this common metaphor of ' a Law imprest on matter ' is one which

must be regarded merely as a metaphor, and an approximative symbol,

useless for accurate science, or we shall get into horrible confusions of

speech and thought about material causes and their limits, especially
now when Darwin, &c, on one hand, and Lyell, &c, on another, have

shown us what an enormous amount of the world's work is done by

cau"seFsorstrmicytslyelfm, aIteargiarel.e with Dr. Asa Gray, in his admirable pamphlet

on Darwin, that the tendency of physical science is ' not towards the

omnipotence of Matter, but to the omnipotence of Spirit. And I am

            Whitchurch Still-life.                                 175

....inclined to regard the development of an ovum according to kind as the

result of a strictly immaterial and spiritual agency.

I" For the rest I yield to you.        had stupidly overlooked the great
structural gulf between Leptalis and Ithomia, when I talked of a fertile
hybrid ; and I do not on second thoughts think much of my more

complex theory
   " Anyhow, it is utterly wonderful, and your explanation, though it is

the simplest, is the most wonderful of all ; because it looks most like

an immensely long chapter of accidents, and is really, if true, a chapter

of special Providences of Him without whom not a sparrow falls to the
Iground, and whose greatness, wisdom, and perpetual care
                                                                   never

understood as I have since I became a convert to Darwin's views."

   " These letters, written by our dearly-beloved friend Charles Kingsley,"
Mr. Bates says, " are very interesting as showing the working of your
variously gifted husband's mind, while grappling with one of the most
difficult problems in Nature. It was a great surprise to me at the time

      an out-of-the-way subject had caught his attention   at all.
                                                          contribute
      so glad I kept the letters, and am thus able to
....Ithatsuch                                                         a
   "am

little to the work you have in hand."

   We now turn from science to fishing, and venture to insert, for

those who never met him in his genial humorous moods, a letter or
two written in the joy of his heart when for a short moment

all care was cast away, and he became a boy again.

                                       TO HIS WIFE.

                                                  WHITE HART, WHITCHURCH, May 26, 1863.

   " Quite safe here, and so jolly at being on the chalk. Just starting to
fish Whit.

I I" 6.30.
      re-open this, having been driven off the water by real
rain --rain which is raining grass and gold.
IEversley.                                    hope it will get to

-- indeed,                              and can do nothing better
        So am settled down,            no books in Whitchurch, than

      nothing else--as there are
Isit and twaddle to you.  like this place, and that is truth. It is

old without being decayed. This low room has a beautiful Queen

Anne's ceiling, and could by withdrawing the partition, be enlarged from

the club room into a ball-room, in which the three belles and one-and-

a half beaux of Whitchurch would have full room to dance. Opposite

me, again across a street rather wider than the room, is a chemist's shop,

176 Charles Kingsley.

which is also a post-office. How quietly and gracefully here the new

invades the old, without dispossessing or confusing it ! The two storeys

are rather lower than one of an average London house, so that we will

hope the folks inside are not tall ; but there is a grand peaked roof with

Idormers, in which I suppose servants are stuffed away. But hold my

nose at the thought. In the window are a dozen bottles -- some near a

hundred years old, with drugs of ditto age. One hopes they are all

Ilabelled right. The only one can answer for is one of poppy-heads.
ISo suppose toothaches are known here. There are also two plaster

of Paris horses, indicating that horse-balls may be had within ; a case of
scents ; an accordion ; two framed prints --one seemingly of a military,

the other of a fox-hunting nature, evidently by a French artist ; a bottle

or two filled with what looks humiliatingly like lollipops ; and a blue
tablet bearing a golden inscription, in the very centre of the window,

Iwhich must examine to-morrow and report to you. In front, instead

of pavement, are great flints and a row of posts, which prevent the

carriages of Whitchurch from rushing into the house windows, and the

drunken men thereof from losing their way home. There are also two

gutters, down which are running now gallons, ay, tons, of true London
milk -- chalk and water, with a slight tinge of animal matter. The

Ipopulation are ' understood but not exprest,' like words in the Latin
grammar which don't appear.          know there was a Methodist parson

walked up to the station an hour ago, and came back again, worse luck

for the place ; and there was a shepherd came and stood in the exact

centre of the town, of course with an umbrella (all Chalk shepherds have
umbrellas), and has been doing nothing certainly for an hour, in pouring

rain. Also a groom boy went by, who looked as if he had been

expelled Lord Portsmouth's stables for dirt. And there you have the

Whitchurch news.
" Lord P. is gone to Bath. Anthony is not come nor heard of. I have
Iwritten to him to-night to stir him up ; but if he don't come shall come
Ihome
             But the fishing to-morrow will be splendid.                 took

Iseven brace this afternoon (none very large, but what would be a great

day at Wildmoor) in three hours. Threw almost all in, for had nought

....to do with them, which raised me infinitely in the keeper's eyes.
" Why do I chat on thus ? Because                 I love to talk to you in the
Ionly way in which can talk, by pen. My tongue is dumb. When I
              I can talk
get"  a pen                    that  I have  got  two  pairs  of bucks'  horns --
             Rose and Maurice
      Tell
....one for each of them, huge old fellows, almost as big as Baby."
" Wednesday. Expect me home to-morrow unless I hear of A. I
have had a splendid day's fishing, and came home through the Park --

Black Alders and Trout.                                                                                                                        177

the finest, I hold, in the south of England. The keeper is an old

retainer of Lord P.'s, and his huntsman whilome at Eggesford. So you
may suppose we have been ' telling ' Devonshire. Conceive his once
running a fox from the back of Okehampton right over Yestor into
the heart of the moor, and killing him, or rather the hounds did, for not

Ia man could get near them. Oh dear, have had such a jolly day, and

....the lamb chops are so good, and there is such a sponge-bath in my

room."

                           TO J. A. FROUDE, ESQ.

                             WHITE HART, WHITCHURCH, May 27, 1863.

"And is this the way you expect to get fishing when you want
I it
                            ?
                                   a.

                                                        .

                                                                                                          a

                                                                                       it ;
                                                                                                         a it,
axing for with fierce importunity, and then running away and leaving

....your disconsolate partner to terrify himself into fiddlestrings with fancy
ing what was the matter . .  Well             but you have lost lovely

day's fishing. The first was not much, owing to the furious rain but

yesterday went up the side stream in the Park, and after the rain was

charming. They took first little black gnat, and then settled to

red palmer and the conquering turkey-brown, with which we killed so

many here before. My beloved black alder* they did not care for --for

* "Oh thou beloved member of the brute creation Songs have been written in
;
                                      a

                                                     '
                                                                 ;

                                                                                          !
praise of thee statues would ere now have been erected to thee, had that hunchback

and those flabby wings of thine been susceptible of artistic treatment.                            '                                           But ugly
                                                                                                      ;
thou art in the eyes of the uninitiated vulgar a little stumpy old maid toddling about

the world in a black bonnet and brown cloak, laughed at by naughty boys, but

doing good wherever thou comest, and leaving sweet memories behind thee so sweet

that the trout will rise at the ghost or sham of thee, for pure love of thy past kind
nesses to them, months after thou hast departed from this sublunary sphere. What

hours of bliss do not owe to thee How have seen in the rich meads of Wey,
II I
                     !
                                          !
                                       I
after picking out wretched quarter-pounders all the morning on March-brown and red-

hackle, the great trout rush from every hover to welcome thy first appearance among

the sedges and buttercups  How often, late in August, on Thames, on Test, on

Loddon heads, have seen the three and four pound fish prefer thy dead image to any

live reality. Have not seen poor old Si. Wilder, king of Thames fishermen (now
gone home to his rest), shaking his huge sides with delight over thy mighty deeds, as

his fourteen-inch whiskers fluttered in the breeze like the horse-tail standard of some

great Bashaw, while crystal Thames murmured over the white flints on Monkey
Island shallow, and the soft breeze sighed in the colossal poplar spires, and the great

trout rose and rose, and would not cease, at thee, my alder-fly                              Have                                              not seen,
'
                  '
                                       !

                              I

                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                            ?

                                                                               I
after a day in which the earth below was iron, and the heavens above as brass, as the

three-pounders would have thee, and thee alone, in the purple August dusk, old

Moody's red face grow redder with excitement, half proud at having advised me to

put on thee, half fearful lest we should catch all my lady's pet trout in one evening?

Beloved alder-fly would that could give thee  soul (if indeed thou hast not one
          VOL. II.
                                                                                           N

178 Charles Kingsley.

Iwhy ? She was not out. The stream was not as good as when we fished

it last, owing to extreme drought. But kept seven brace of good fish

Iand threw in twelve. None over 1 Jib. though. After two came a

ferocious storm, and chop of wind to W., and after that did nothing.

IOh ! wish you had been with me ; but if you will be good you shall

come down week after next, and Mrs. Alder will be out then, and

perhaps a few drakes on the lower shallow, and oh, won't we pitch into

....the fish ? Lord P. is gone to Bath, and Lady P. to High Clere.

So I am going home by mid-day train."

        TO REV. E. PITCAIRN CAMPBELL.

                                                Eversley, May 29, 1863.

" By the strangest coincidence, Sir Charles Bunbury, a great geologist
Iand botanist, and were talking over this very evening Sir Alex. Gordon
ACumming's toads in a hole. I promised him to write to Sir
                                                                on the

strength of his kind messages to me, for further information ; and behold,

on coming home from a dinner-party at General Napier's, your letter

anent them ! Verily, great things are in these toads' insides, or so strange

a coincidence would not have happened.

  " Now, I say to you what I said to him. Toads are rum brutes. Like

all batrachians, they breathe through their skins, as well as through their

lungs. The instinct (as I have often proved) of the little beggars an

inch long, fresh from water and tadpoledom, is to creep foolishly into

Ithe dirtiest hole they can find, in old walls, &c, where 99 out of a 100

are eaten by rats and beetles, as hold -- or else the world would have

been toadied to utter disgust and horror long ago. Some of these

may get down into cracks in rocks, and never get back. The holes
may be silted up by mud and sand. The toad may exist and grow in that

hole for Heaven knows how long, I daresay for centuries, for I don't

think he would want food to grow ; oxygen and water he must have, but

a v"erAyccliottrldeinwgolyu,ldaldl ot.he cases of toads in a hole which I have investi

gated have been either in old walls or limestone rocks, which are porous

as a sponge, absorb water and air, and give them out slowly, but enough

to keep a cold-blooded batrachian alive.                        I have
   " Now, Sir Alex. Gordon Cumming's toads have puzzled me.

read all that he has written, and thought over  it,  comparing  with all
                                                                it

                                                                    I
know, and think know almost every case on record, and am
I

             it
                    is,

              I
                        I

                                  I
already, thou, and all things which live), and make thee happy in all icons to come
                                                     :
                                                                                          !
But as  such immortality as can bestow on thee here, in small return for all the
pleasant days thou hast bestowed on me." -- 'Chalk Stream Studies Prose Idylls.'

                 "Hypatia" and the D.C.L.                                                                                                                           179

confounded. Will you ask him for me, what is the nature of this con

glo"mIerastaeid  in which   the toads are ?      in toads  anywhere  but in                                                  lime
                  to-night
                            I would not believe

stone or chalk, i.e., in strongly hydraulic strata. Sir Charles Bunbury

corrected me, by saying that certain volcanic rocks, amygdaloid basalts,
were as full of holes as limestone, and as strongly hydraulic, and so

toads might live in them.

  If" Sir A. G. C. would send us a piece of the rock in which the toads

lie, we could tell him more. But that the toads are contemporaneous

with the rock, or have got there any way save through cracks now filled

    I
              II

                                             I
                                                            iIs,

                                                                                                                                                                  !

                                                                               I
up, and so overlooked in the blasting and cutting,          believe, impos
sible, and cannot be-- though God alone knows what cannot be --and

so "   wait for  further    information.  Alexander's  most kind invitation, and
       Oh, that     could     accept Sir

come and see the toads myself, let alone killing the salmon                  But

cannot.
    "
    "  We must send         up   one  of our F.G.S.'s  to see into the matter                                                                                       next
       Your flies are        to   me                   will try them on Itchen
                                       wonderful.

week. But have been killing well in burning sun, and water as clear

as air, on flies which are to them as bumble bees."

    In the summer of this year the Prince and Princess of Wales

honoured the Oxford Commemoration with their presence, and
according to custom His Royal Highness sent in previously the
names of those on whom he wished the University to bestow the
honorary degree of D.C.L. Among those names was that of
Charles Kingsley, who was one of the Prince's private chaplains.

He had several warm friends in the University, among others
Dean Stanley (then Canon of Christ Church), Max Miiller, &c,
who would have gladly seen this honour conferred on him but
         ;
                                                                                                                                                                 ;
among the extreme High Church party there were dissentient
voices and the Professor of Hebrew took the lead in opposing

the degree on the ground of Mr. Kingsley's published works,
especially " Hypatia," which he considered " an immoral book"

and one calculated to encourage young men in profligacy and
false doctrine-- the very charge, in fact, that twelve years before
had been brought against " Yeast " by an Oxford graduate

of the same party. If the vote in Convocation had been car

ried in Mr. Kingsley's favour,                   would have been anything
                                 a

                                                  it

                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                          2
but unanimous, and                    threat being made of  " non placet "

                                                                     N

180 Charies Kingsley,

in the theatre at the time of conferring the degree, his friends

considerately advised him to retire ; and he, in order to avoid
disturbing the peace of the University on such an auspicious

occasion, as considerately followed their advice. The follow
ing year some of his Oxford friends chivalrously offered to

propose his name again for a distinction which he would have

valued as much as any man living : but he declined, saying
that " it was an honour that must be given, not fought for,"
and that till the imputation of immorality was withdrawn from
his book " Hypatia," he could not even in prospect accept the

offer.

   In 1866 Bishop Wilberforce, then Bishop of Oxford, wrote to
ask him to preach one of a course of sermons in the University

in Lent, but he declined that honour too on the same grounds

as the degree.

  " I do not deny," he says in a letter to Dean Stanley, " a great

hankering for years past, after an Oxford D.C.L            But all

these things are right, and come with a reason, and a purpose,

and a meaning ; and he who   grumbles  at them or at worse,
believeth not (for the time  being at  least) in the Living
God."

Again, to one who would have liked to see honour upon honour
showered upon him-- " Pray, pray take what God does not send
                                                           "
as not good for us, and trust Him to send us what is good

And so, when a disappointment was over, he would root out

the memory of it before it had time to rankle in his mind and

sow any seed of envy or malice. He lived on a high level, and

to keep there he knew that he must crush down the unforgiving

spirit which springs from egotism in the hearts of less noble

men. Coupled with this, too, was not only his intense faith in
the government of God, as shown in the smallest as well as the
most important events of life, and in His education of His
creatures, by each and every one of these events, but a deep
sense of his own unworthiness, which made him content (a
word he loved) with what he had already as all too good for

him.

   Bishop Colenso's work on the Pentateuch had lately appeared
and was the topic of general discussion, which led to his preach

                         The Pentateuch.                                                                 181

ing a series of sermons* on the subject to his own people                                                              at
Eversley. In a letter to Mr. Maurice, he said, in reference
                                                                                                                       to
the one on the Credibility of the Plagues of Egypt and
miracles in general :--                                                                                                of

   " All this talk about the Pentateuch is making me feel its unique

I Ivalue and divineness so much more than ever did, that burn to say

something worth hearing about and cannot help hoping that what

say may be listened to by some of those who know that shrink
                              I           I                                                              :I
from no lengths in physical science  it,            am sure that science                                   I
                                              if  I
and the creeds will shake hands at last, only people will leave bothIa I                                        I

alone, and pray that by God's grace perchance may help them to
      I

                     is
do so.                   that people will fancy me          verbal-inspiration-

   " My only fear

monger, which, as you know, am not and that shall, in due time,
                                          ;

....suffer the fate of most who see both sides, and be considered by botha
   hypocrite and a traitor."

   These sermons he dedicated to his friend Dr. Stanley --

   " dedicate these sermons to you, my dear Stanley, not that may
   I

make you responsible for any doctrine or statement contained in them,

but as the simplest method of telling you how much they owe to your

book on the Jewish Church, and of expressing my deep gratitude to you

for publishing that book at such time as this.
   " It has given to me (andin I
                                   a
                                                                       ;

                                                            I
                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                            a
                              doubt not to many other clergymen)

fresh confidence and energy preaching to my people the gospel of the

Old Testament as the same with that of the New and without                                               many

of these sermons would have been very different from, and am certain

very inferior to, what they are now, by the help of your admirable

book.                                     men  of the last generation, upon
    " Brought up, like all Cambridge      as   matter of course, and as the

Paley's Evidences,' had accepted
      '

                   (' I

                                                                      3, a
                                                                                           '

                                                                           it

                                                                                                   is '
authoritative teaching of my university, Paley's opinions as to the limits

of biblical criticism Evidences,' part cap. 3), quoted at large in

Dean Milman's noble preface to his last edition of the History of the

Jews,' and especially that great dictum of his, that                                                     an unwarrant

able, as well as unsafe rule, to lay down concerning the Jewish history

      '            Sermons on the Pentateuch." Macmillan.

182 Charles Kingsley.

that which was never laid down concerning any other, that either every
particular of it must be true, or the whole false.'

    " A reverent and rational liberty in criticism (within the limits of
             I             have always supposed, the right of every Cambridge
orthodoxy)     iIs,

man and was therefore the more shocked, for the sake of free thought
        ;
in my university, at the appearance of book which claimed and exer
          a                                        Ia

                                                                                             it
                                                                                                    it)
cised licence in such questions, which must (after careful study of
call anything but rational and reverent. Of the orthodoxy of the book,

it  is  not, of course, private clergyman's place to judge. That book
                           a

seemed dangerous to the University of Cambridge itself, because was
likely to stir up from without attempts to abridge her ancient liberty of
thought but seemed still more dangerous to the hundreds of thou
             I;

                       it
sands without the university, who, being no scholars, must take on trust

the historic truth of the Bible.  if               not always read, yet still talked and
   " For found that book,

thought of on every side, among persons whom should have fancied
careless of its subject, and even ignorant of its existence, but to whom
                                                   a                                                   it,
was personally bound to give some answer as to the book and its worth.;
                                                                                                              II
It was making many unsettled and unhappy                  it Iwas (even worse) pan

dering to the cynicism and frivolity of many who were already too cynical

and frivolous and much as shrank from descending into the arena of
             ;

                     I
                           I
religious controversy, felt bound to say few plain words on at least

to my own parishioners.

   " But how to do so, without putting into their heads thoughts which

need be in no man's head, and perhaps shaking the very faith which

was trying to build up, was difficult to me, and think, would have beenII
impossible to me, but for the opportune appearance of your admirable

book.
    " could not but see that the book to which have alluded, like most
is
other modern books on biblical criticism, was altogether negative was
   I                                                                                                   is
possessed too often by that fanaticism of disbelief, which
                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                       just as

dangerous as the fanaticism of belief; was picking the body of the Scrip

ture to pieces so earnestly, that seemed to forget that Scripture had a
                              ;

                                     if
                                         it it
spirit as well as body or,                         confessed that had spirit, asserting
             it                                    it
                                                                  it
                    a
                                                                     it

                                                                                  a

                                                                                                    ;
that spirit to be one utterly different from the spirit which the Scripture

asserts that possesses.                                         were moved by the

   " For the Scripture asserts that those who wrote

Spirit of God that            record of God's dealings with men, which
             ;             it
                               is

                                     a
                                            ; is,
certain men were inspired to perceive and to write down whereas the

tendency of modern criticism                     without doubt, to assert that Scripture

    inspired by the spirit of man that contains the thoughts and dis-

       Unique Element in Old Testament.                                    183

coveries of men concerning God, which they wrote down without the

inspiration of God, which difference seems to me (and I hope to others)

infinite and incalculable, and to involve the question of the whole cha

rac"teTr,hehroenour,waitnhdougtlorydooufbtG,ods.omething in the Old Testament, as wellis,
                    Ia
as in the New, quite different in kind, as well as in degree, from the

sacred books of any other people an unique element, which has had
                                                   :
                                                       '

                                                                '
an unique effect upon the human heart, life, and civilization. This

remains, after all possible deductions for ignorance of physical science,''
 errors in numbers and chronology,' interpolations,' mistakes of tran
                                                                      '

                                                                        a
scribers,' and so forth, whereof we have read of late great deal too
much, and ought to care for them and for their existence, or non

existence, simply nothing at all because, granting them all (though the
                                    ;

greater part of them                do not grant, as far as can trust my critical
                                                                   I

faculty), there remains that unique element, beside which all these

accidents are but as the spots on the sun, compared to the great glory

of his life-giving light. The unique element there and cannot but

still believe, after much thought, that --the powerful and working
                                                   it                 is ' ;
                                                           is
                                                                            I
element, the inspired and Divine element, which has converted, and still
converts millions of souls -- just that which Christendom in all ages                  is
has held to be-- the account of certain noble acts of God's, and not                             it
   it                               is             a                                                 is

                                                ;          '
of certain noble thoughts of man in word, not merely the moral, but
the historic element and that, therefore, the value of the Bible teaching
            ;

depends on the truth of the Bible story. That my belief. Any
criticism which tries to rob me of that shall look at fairly, but very
                                    is
severely indeed.                        a
                                           '
  " If all that man wants                       a

                                               I
a                                      religion,' he ought to be able to make

      I
               '
                           a
                                is
   very pretty one for himself, and fresh one as often as he tired of

the old. But the heart and soul of man wants more than that, as

written, My soul athirst for God, even for the living God.' Those

whom have to teach want a living God, who cares for men, forgives
men, saves men from their sins -- and Him have found in the Bible, and
                                    :

                                                I

nowhere else, save in the facts of life, which the Bible alone interprets.
   " In the power of man to find out God will never believe. The
                                    I'

                                                     it

                                                          I
religious sentiment or God-consciousness,' so much talked of now-a-

days, seems to me (as believe                      will to all practical common-sense

Englishmen) a faculty not to be depended on, as fallible and corrupt as

any other part of human nature apt, to judge from history, to develop
                                    ;

itself into ugly forms, not only without a revelation from God, but too

often in spite of one --into polytheisms, idolatries, witchcrafts, Buddhist

asceticisms, Phoenician moloch sacrifices, Popish inquisitions, American
spirit-rappings, and what not. The hearts and minds of the sick, the

184 diarles Kingsley.

poor, the sorrowing, the truly human, all demand a living God, who has

revealed Himself in living acts ; a God who has taught mankind by facts,
not left them to discover Him by theories and sentiments ; a judge, a

Father, a Saviour, an inspirer ; in a word, their hearts and minds demand
the historic truth of the Bible -- of the Old Testament no less than of the

New.

  " What I needed, therefore, for my guidance was a book which should

believe and confess all this, without condemning or ignoring free criti

cism and its results ; which should make use of that criticism, not to

destroy, but to buildup ; which employed a thorough knowledge of the
Old Testament history, the manners of the Jews, the localities of the

sacred events, to teach men not what might not be in the Bible, but

what was certainly therein ; which dealt with the Bible after the only

fair and trustful method ; that          to consider              at first according to the
                                         is,
                                                               ;

                                                              it
theory which sets forth concerning itself, before trying quite another
a

                    it
theory of the commentator's own invention and which combined with

courageous determination to tell the whole truth, and nothing but the

truth, that Christian spirit of trust, reverence, and piety, without which

all intellectual acutenessI is but blindness and folly.                                  genius
                              found in your book, enforced with                          a
   " All this, and more,
                                                                                               I
which needs no poor praise of mine and hailed its appearance, at
                                         I
such crisis, as a happy Providence, certain that would be, what;
a                                               it                it
           a                                    aI

              it
now know by experience          it a it  has been, balm to many a wounded

spirit, and check to many wandering intellect, inclined, in the rash

ness of youth, to throw away the truth   already had, for the sake of

theories which hoped that might possibly verify hereafter.

   "With your book in my hand, have tried to write few plain
                                                                                   in a
sermons, telling plain people what they will find in the Pentateuch, in

spite of all present doubts, as their fathers found                 before them, and as
                                         it
trust) their children will find                                 it
(I                                       after them, when all this present

  I
wh"irlwhinadveotfocldontthroevmerstyhaht atshepyaswt. ill find in the Bible, and         no other

ancient book, that living, working God, whom their reason and con

science demand and that they will find that He                        none other than
     '                  I
           ;
Jesus Christ our Lord.                it,

                                                  '

                                                       ;

                                              I
                                                   I is

                                                                              it,
                                have not apologized for, or explained away,

the so-called Anthropomorphism of the Old Testament. On the con

trary, have frankly accepted             and even gloried in as an integral,
II
and, believe, invaluable, element of Scripture.                       have deliberately

ignored many questions of great interest and difficulty, because had
                                                                                         I

no satisfactory solution of them to offer but have said, at the same

time, that those questions were altogether unimportant, compared with
those salient and fundamental points of the Bible history on which
                                                                                            I

                 Lectures on the Jewish Church.               185

Iwas preaching. And therefore        have dared to bid my people re

linquish biblical criticism to those who have time for it ; and to say of it
Iwith me, as Abraham of the planets, ' Oh, my people, am clear of all
Ithese           turn myself to Him who
  I"                                          made heaven and earth.'
       things !                                for the press sermons which

       am painfully conscious, on revising

would never have been published save by special request, how imper
fect, poor, and weak they seem to me -- how much worse, then, they

Iwill appear to other people ; how much more may be said which have
Inot the wit to say ! But the Bible can take care of itself, presume,
I I Iwithout my help : all can do is to speak what think, as far as see

my way ; to record the obligation toward you under which I, with thou

sands more, now lie ; and to express my hope that we shall be always

found together fellow-workers in the cause of Truth, and that to you

and in you may be fulfilled those noble and tender words, in which you
                                                              spirit :--
have   spoken of Samuel, and of those who work in Samuel's
       In later times, even in our own, many names spring       to our re
   "'

collection, of those who have trodden or (in different degrees, some
known and some unknown) are treading the same thankless path, in the
Church of Germany, in the Church of France, in the Church of Russia,

in the Church of England. Wherever they are, and whosoever they

may be, and howsoever they may be neglected, or assailed, or despised,

they, like their great prototype and likeness in the Jewish Church, are
the silent healers, who bind up the wounds of their age in spite of itself;

they are the good physicians who bind together the dislocated bones of

a disjointed time ; they are the reconcilers who turn the hearts of the

children to the fathers, or of the fathers to the children. They have but

little praise and reward from the partisans who are loud in indiscriminate

censure and applause. But, like Samuel, they have a far higher reward,

in the Davids who are silently strengthened and nurtured by them in
Naioth of Ramah -- in the glories of a new age, which shall be ushered

in peacefully and happily, after they shall have been laid in the grave.'

('  Lectures    on the Jewish Church,' Lect.  18, p. 401.)
              such, my dear Stanley, may be   your work and
    " That                                                    your destiny,  is

the earnest hope of                  " Yours affectionately,

    Everslby Rectory, July 1, 1863.           "C. Kinosley."

                               TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                                                                                                      September 18, 1863.

  I" am very anxious to know what you think of Stanley's 'Lectures on
the Jewish Church.' I have read them with the greatest pleasure and

1 86 Charies Kingsley.

comfort, and look on the book as the best antidote to Colenso which I

have yet seen, because it fights him on his own ground, and yet ignores

him and his   negative form of thought.   to thousands, and make them
              the book will give comfort
   " I think
Itake up their Bibles once more with heart and hope.
                                                            do trust that
you feel as I do about it  I have been so ' run about' with
Iparish work and confirmation work, that have neglected to tell you
how deeply I feel your approval of my sermons. I do hope and trust
that they may do a little good. I find that the Aldershot and Sand

hurst mustachios come to hear these discourses of mine every Sunday --
and my heart goes out to them in great yearnings. Dear fellows -- when
I see them in the pews, and the smock frocks in the open seats, I feel
as if I was not quite useless in the world, and that I was beginning

to fulfil the one idea of my life, to tell Esau * that he has a birthright as
well as Jacob. I do feel very deeply the truth which John Mill has

set forth in a one-sided way in his new book on Liberty -- pp. 88-90,
I think, about the past morality of Christendom having taken a somewhat

abject tone, and requiring, as a complement, the old Pagan virtues,

which our forefathers learnt from Plutarch's Lives, and of which the
Imemory still lingers in our classical education.
                                                   do not believe, of

course, that the want really exists : but that it has been created,

principally by the celibate misanthropy of the patristic and mediaeval

Ichurch. But have to preach the divineness of the whole manhood,

and am content to be called a Muscular Christian, or any other impertinent
name, by men who little dream of the weakness of character, sickness of

body, and misery of mind, by which I have bought what little I know of

the human heart. However, there is no good in talking about oneself.
I" I am so obliged to you for your kindness to our Maurice.
                                                                       hope

you were satisfied with your godson. He is a very good boy, and makes

us very happy."

                     TO REV. J. LLEWELLYN DAVIES.

                                                                                    EVERSLEY, August 3, 1863.

" I have to thank you for your most kind and reasonable review of

* Dean Stanley's words may explain this allusion to Esau : " It was this sense

that he was a thorough Englishman that endeared him to you             O rising
youth of England ! . . . . It is for this that he speaks to you with especial force,
you whom he would have called the sons of Esau -- the frank, the generous, the self-
forgetful ; and bids you rise to higher spiritual spheres. It is for this also that the

religious world, the orthodox world, the sons of the believing, but yet timid, wily

Jacob, ought to feel that in his presence they had the best because the most severe

of monitors-- that in his departure they have lost the most faithful of friends because

the severest of critics." (Funeral Sermon on Charles Kingsley, p. IL)

           Sir George Back on " Water babies."                                                                          187

me in the ' Reader.' You have said for me all I wish said. You will
Iunderstand that have read much and hard on these critical questions
Iabout Scripture, and that am sick of them, because they do not touch
Ithat vital religion, which is all in all to me.
                                                  will assert the right of any
Iclergyman to write freely on them, but will attack, if need be, any one

who, while using criticism, ignores Vital Religion, which, with me, is
Ifsynonymous with a belief in the main facts of the Bible.
                                                                                        they are
Itaken away have no alternative but the modern Neo-Platonist School,
which I do not believe in ; or to turn a jolly Greek Pagan again. In

any case, to find you and myself agreeing at all is a hearty pleasure, and

I wish much that I saw more of you and of rational beings in general."

The "Waterbabies" came out this year, dedicated "To my

youngest   son, Grenville Arthur, and to all other good little
        "
boys       If"
      :

              Come     read me my   riddle, each  guopodfollkittlceanm. a"n,
                  you  cannot read      no grown
                                    it,

                                                                                                                     :
   The "l'envoi," in the first edition, was suppressed in the second,I it

lest should be misunderstood and give needless offence --

                               " Hence unbelieving Sadducees,

                                        And less believing Pharisees,
                                        With dull conventionalities
                                        And leave country muse at ease
                                       To play at leap-frog, she please,
                                       With children and realities."
                                    a

                                                 if
                                                                       ;

" think," said Admiral Sir George Back,                                   writing to friend, "
                       a                                                                                                I

                          I
                                              '
                                                       it,

                                                       is in
                                                                    is

                                                                         is
                                                                                     a
told you that no one, lady or gentleman, could give me anything like a

satisfactory answer to the question of What the story of the Water-

babies about?' And now that have read the reason clear enough,

for in the playfulness of charming fairy tale                             included the most

amusing allusions to different branches of science. Of plants, fresh

water and sea; of waterflies, dear to an old fisherman, and especially the

gorgeous dragon-fly, of fish, birds and shells wish the large gull, bur
                                                  (I

gomaster of Spitzbergen had been noticed); of species, of gorillas, the

ories, specific gravities, latitudes and longitudes, minute computations,

philosophers, examiners, etc, etc, and some poetry that did one's heart

Igood to read.                                                                                                          d

 ..." will honour the shadow of the shoe-tie of any Landbaby, age

discretion, who will do full justice to the merits of this extraordinary
book"

j 88 Charles Kingsley.

   Perhaps it was the last book, except his West Indian one,

" At Last," that he wrote with any real ease, and which was

purely a labour of love, for his brain was getting fatigued, his
health fluctuated, and the work of the Professorship, which was
a constant weight on his mind, wore him sadly.

CHAPTER XXIII.

                                             1864-5.

                                    Aged 45, 46.

Illness-- Controversy with Dr. Newman-- Apologia--Journey to the
South of France -- Biarritz -- Pau -- An Earthquake-- Narbonne --
The Schoolboy's Sea-- Beziers -- Pont du Gard-- Wild Flowers --

Nismes-- Avignon-- Sermons in London and at Windsor -- Enclosure
of eversley Common-- death of the right hon. thomas erskine--
University Sermons at Cambridge-- Muscular Christianity and
tChheivTarlrinyi--tyM--r.HJoonh. n
                                     Stuart  Mill's   London Committee -- Letter on
                                             Spring   Rice -- Letter on Subscription--
                                    Stephen

Savonarola-- Luther and Demonology-- Visit of Queen Emma of
the Sandwich Islands to Eversley Rectory and Wellington Col
lege--The Literary World--Wesley and Oxford-- The Mammoth
on Ivory-- Bewick's Autobiography-- Death of King Leopold -- Lines

written at Windsor Castle.

" HE heeded not reviling tones

  Nor sold his heart to idle moans,
   Though cursed and scorn'd, and bruised with stones.

  He seems to hear a Heavenly Friend
  And thro' thick veils to apprehend
  A labour working to an end."--TENNYSON.

                 CHAPTER XXIII.

   THE severe illness and great physical depression with which
this year began were a bad preparation for the storm of contro
versy which burst upon Mr. Kingsley, and which eventually pro
duced Dr. Newman's famous " Apologia pro vita sua." That
controversy is before the world, and no allusion would be made
to it in these pages, but from the fear that silence might be
misconstrued into a tacit acknowledgment of defeat on the main
question. This fact, however, may be mentioned, that informa
tion conveyed to Mr. Kingsley that Dr. Newman was in bad

health, depressed, and averse from polemical discussion, coupled

with Dr. Newman's own words in the early part of the corres
pondence, in which he seemed to deprecate controversy, appealed
irresistibly to Mr. Kingsley 's consideration, and put him to a
great disadvantage in the issue. Still throughout there were
many who held with him--among them some personal friends
in the Roman Catholic Church. Many private letters, too, of
generous sympathy from strangers came to cheer him on--some
from laymen --some from clergymen -- some even from working-
men, who having come in contact with the teaching of Roman
Catholic priests, knew the truth of Mr. Kingsley 's statements.
Last but not least, a pamphlet was published by the Rev.
Frederick Meyrick, entitled " But is not Kingsley right after
all ? " This pamphlet was never answered.

   For the right understanding of this controversy, it cannot be
too strongly insisted upon, that it was for truth and truth only that
Mr. Kingsley craved and had fought. The main point at issue
was not the personal integrity of Dr. Newman, but the question
whether the Roman Catholic priesthood are encouraged or dis
couraged to pursue " Truth for its own sake." While no one

192 Charles Kingsley.

more fully acknowledged the genius and power of his opponent
than Mr. Kingsley himself, or was more ready to confess that
he had " crossed swords with one who was too strong for him,"

yet he always felt that the general position which he had taken
up against the policy of the Roman Catholic Church, remained
unshaken*

   " It was his righteous indignation," says Dean Stanley,

"against what seemed to him the glorification of a tortuous
and ambiguous policy, which betrayed him into the only

personal controversy in which he was ever entangled, and

in which, matched in unequal conflict with the most subtle
and dexterous controversialist of modern times, it is not sur

prising that for the moment he was apparently worsted, what
ever we may think of the ultimate issues that were raised in the
struggle, and whatever may be the total results of our experiences,

before and after, on the main question over which the combat
was fought -- on the relation of the human conscience to truth or

to authority." f
   For more than a year past Mr. Kingsley had been suffering

from chronic illness increased by overwork of brain, and a
thorough rest and change of air had long been seriously urged

upon him by his kind friend, Sir James Clarke. At this moment,
Mr. Froude, who was going to Spain to look over MSS. in con

* It may be doubted whether any words of Mr. Kingsley's convey a more serious

accusation against the Church of Rome, than Dr. Newman's own in the "Lectures on

the Prophetical Office of the Church," when  s"pweaekisnhgalol f   the  professions of Rome   he
warns those who make advances to her, that                        find  too late that we are  in

...the arms of a pitiless and unnatural relative who will but triumph in the arts which
have inveigled us within her reach  for in truth she is a church beside herself . . .
crafty, obstinate, wilful, malicious, cruel, unnatural as madmen are --or rather she
may be said to resemble a demoniac -- possessed with principles, thoughts, and tenden

cies not her own ; in outward form and in natural powers what God made her, but

ruled by an inexorable spirit who is sovereign in his management over her, and most

subtle and most successful in the use of her gifts. Thus she is her real self only in
name, and till God vouchsafes to restore her, we must treat her as if she were that evil

one who governs her." (Prophetical Office of the Church, p. 101.)       to an " Essay on
   These words Dr. Newman formally retracted in the advertisement

the Development of Christian Doctrine," page iv., but when first published, they

expressed his deliberate opinion, and as such were accepted without remonstrance by

the High Church party.

f Funeral Sermon on Canon Kingsley, in Westminster Abbey, on January 30,
1875, by Dean Stanley.

          First Impressions of France.                            193

nection with his Historical work, invited him to go with him,

to which he answers :--

  " This is too delightful. I had meant to offer myself to you, but my
courage failed ; but when you propose what can I do but accept ? . . .

I am ready, for my part, not only to go to Madrid, but on by mail to

Alicant, and then by steamer to Gibraltar, via Carthagena and Malaga,

coming home by sea. I have always felt that one good sea voyage
Iwould add ten years to my life. All my friends say, go, but must not
be the least burden to you. Remember that I can amuse myself in

any hedge, with plants and insects and a cigar, and that you may leave
I Ime anywhere, any long, certain that shall be busy and happy.
                                                                  can

not say how the thought of going has put fresh life into me."

   On the 23rd of March he started with Mr. Froude for Spain,
but being ill at Biarritz he did not go over the border. It was
his first visit to France, of which his impressions are given in his

letters to his wife and children.

                                                                PAris, Sunday, March 25, 3 P.M.

I" am writing this from the top of the Hotel Meurice, with the

Tuileries gardens beneath blazing in the sun, and as crowded and

noisy as a fair. We got here yesterday, with several men we knew,

among others Captain Blackett. The splendour of this city is beyond

all I could have conceived, and the beautiful neatness and complete

ness of everything delight my eyes. Verily these French are a civilised

people. We went this morning to the Madeleine, where a grand cere
mony was going on, consisting of a high priest brushing people with a

handkerchief, as far as I could see. Next, to Notre Dame, where

old women were adoring the Sacrament in a ' tombeau ' dressed up

with cloth and darkness, two argand burners throwing light on it

above, and over it a fold of white drapery exactly in the form of the

sacrificial vitta on the Greek vases, from which it is probably uncon
sciously derived. For the rest, they are all as busy and gay to-day as

on any other. We met John Lubbock in the street going off to
examine the new bone-caves in Dordogne. I am much better to-day
I-- may say, quite well. This air is most bracing, and the sun magni
Ificent.
          will write to you to-morrow from Bayonne             Do let me
..."know what sport Maurice had with the hounds.

                                    Bayonne, March 26, 1864.

I" A place utterly unlike anything  ever saw.       Certainly very pic

turesque, with the yellow and brown jalousies to the windows, and the

vol. 11.                                                       o

194 Charles Kingsley.

shipping at the bottom of the street, and the red-legged soldiers every

where. I have seen so much since I wrote this morning, I hardly know
where to begin. At Coutras, the other side of Bordeaux, I felt at once
I was in a new world. Everything a month earlier than with us ; the

fruit trees in full flower ; pink and crimson almond trees by dozens

everywhere. The air strangely clear, the houses low-roofed, and covered

with purple-ribbed tiles like the old Roman. I saw in an instant what

you mean by the colouring of the south.
   " Bordeaux seems a magnificent place -- the suburbs are all vineyard

in the highest order. Into Bordeaux we did not go, but only into the
Landes -- for which, fancy one hundred miles of Hartford Bridge Flat,

with pinus maritima (which we saw at Bournemouth) instead of Scotch
fir, and a tall delicate heath (mediterranea) unknown to me, among the
common heath. Little long-woolled sheep, cows you could put under

your arm, boys on stilts tending them, with sheepskin coats (wool out

side)  and sheepskin pads   for their poor feet, else they would have to
have
       them asked after if  there was anyone to ask, which there aint--

the only birds magpies. But thrivingness and improvement every

where ; immense new plantations of the pinus, new clearings for culti
vation, new smart cottages, beautiful new churches, railway stations laid

out with shrubberies of foreign trees. What a go-a-head place France
is ! It gladdens my heart to look at it. Saw the first cork-trees about

forty miles from Bayonne planted, barked all round about nine feet high
for the cork. It don't hurt them, in fact they rather like and gives
                                                          in it,
the new wood room to expand.                                         it

                                                                      I
                                          '        saw many flowers on the banks

                                                I
did not know, and maize-fields, with last year's stubble              them, and

plenty of our dear English lady's smock in the wet meadows near'

here, which looked very homy. Ccming off the Landes between
Morceux and Dax, saw low ridge of clouds below the other clouds,
                        a
which were the Pyrenees.                  could soon distinguish the line of eternal
                          I

snow -- could see vast arretes and glaciers blazing in the sun one hundred
miles off-- gorges that faded into infinite cloud land; peaks just cut off
by the lower banks of vapour. It was an awful sight for the first time.

They were intensely clear in the rainy atmosphere, and clear all but the

tops of few of the highest. After Dax they faded, as we rounded
          a
their lower outworks, which run to the sea. The climate here, beinga
                                   is is
near to the Atlantic,                   much warmer than North Spain  I
                                                                              I
have just discovered a huge vulture (vautour arrian,                  think)
chained to tree in the courtyard in the rain, sulking and poking and

dripping."

"... My bed-room                          narrow, but high -- twelve or thirteen feet

                       Biarritz and the Basques.                                   195

high, with a tall window from ground to ceiling, with jalousies and white

muslin ; as is the bed, all very neat and clean. . . .

  "Remark 1. All the horses in France are white except one, which I

see"   at   rare intervals.  most  exquisite    little yellow     oxen  here, rather
        2.   They have the

bigger than a donkey. They put brown holland pinafores on their

backs, and great sheepskin mats on their heads, where the yoke comes,

and persuade them as a great favour to do a little work. But they

seem so fond of them that the oxen have much the best of the bargain.
This place is half Spanish, of course, as witness what is painted on a
shop-door opposite :-- ' Fabrica de licores deposito de varios aguardientes

ven"taLopvoer  mayor   y por menor Bither vermuth.'        this,  especially  the  last
               to the  darlings, make them construe

word, which is considered by these barbarians to be English ! God

bless you all with all Easter blessings. . . ."

                                                                     Biarritz, April, 1864.
   " A pleasant day at Biarritz, which is just a cross between Bude and

IScarborough. What a sea there was there you may imagine when tell

you that it is in the very bight of the Bay of Biscay, and that it was
Iblowing great guns in from dead W.N.W.
                                                           never saw a finer sea,

rushing through caverns and cracks in a strange sandstone full of num-

mulites and flat layers of flint. The country like the Devonshire coast.

Flowers wonderful. Cliffs covered with white and red stocks, the same
Ias our garden ones, and just as fine.
                                                shall stop here for a week or

so, to botanize and breathe sea-champagne; Tulk, who is an M.D.,

wil"l  take  care of me.     a  lingo  utterly  different  from all European       lan
       The   Basques speak

guages, which has no analogue, and must have come from a different
stock from our ancestors. The women are very pretty -- brown, aqui

line, with low foreheads, and have a quaint fashion of doing up their

back hair in a gaudy silk handkerchief, which is cunningly twisted till one

great triangular tail stands out stiff behind the left ear. This is a great

art. The old ones tie their whole heads up in the handkerchief and look

ver"y  pretty,   but browner than apes from wearing        no bonnets.  sheathing,'
                rained to-day, again, ' marling-spikes     and copper
       It has
Iand the vulture (whom have sketched much) has been dancing about

trying to dry himself, and expanding great concave wings as big as

windmill sails. He must be a glorious bird in his native Pyrenees."

" Me viola abonne" a 1'Hotel de France Biarritz au second, from whence

                                                                                                                          o2

196 Charles Kingsley.

I look north over the Bay of Biscay. I could see you, if I could see

far enough. Half a mile off a long point one hundred feet high, with
a splendid "phare" or light-house. -- Then, a sandy bay, with isolated

sandstone rocks, over which the Atlantic is leaping before a fearful

gale. Half-way is the villa Eugenie, looking like a comfortable English
house of brick and stone,

' Where the fair empress and her mushroom court,
 Amid the admiring waves themselves disport,'

as a country poet might have written. The hills here are like the
Bideford coast -- still more like the Cornish -- covered with the true

Cornish heath, pale blue vernal squills, a great white potentilla verna,
and a long blue flower, which T
                                 took for gentian, but which seems
to me a borage or bugloss. Anyhow, I am drying all I find. The

Spanish mountains are covered with snow, and look magnificent. The

rocks are covered with echinus lividus, a sea-urchin that bores in
limestone ! T
               has found them, but only on the south-west coast

of Ireland. We are going to chisel some out.

  I" am quite in love with these Frenchmen. They are so charmingly

civil and agreeable. You can talk to any and all classes as equals.

But, alas ! I have fallen among English at the table d'hote. . . .

   " Wednesday afternoon. A day as pleasant as one can be without
you ; sea and rocks wonderful. -- A new and most beautiful and curious

Izoophite, ditto seaweed, and burrowing Echini. T. and made a gauze

pool-net, sat lazily on the beach and picked up little shells for Mary,
then walked a mile out toward the battle-field of Barrillhet, of which

more hereafter. I found Daphne odorata growing among heath, quite
Ias fine as ever saw it in an English garden. T. and I reaped it

with our knives, and brought home a great bundle. God bless you.
"...I wish I was home again."
              After breakfast we generally lounge the rocks till one-  I have

found some gigantic skate purses, which must belong to a ray twenty

feet broad ; then luncheon ; then lounge again, sitting about on benches

and rocks, watching the grey lizards (I haven't seen any green ones

....yet), and smoking penny Government cigars, which are very good ;
then table d'hote at six.  Yesterday we hired a carriage and went

to the bar of the Adour, and saw the place where Hope carried the
Guards across and made a bridge of boats in the face of 15,000 French.

IWhen one sees such things -- and shall see more --who dare sneer at
' old Peninsular officers ? ' To-day I was looking through the glass at

the Rhune mountain, which Soult entrenched from top to bottom, and

Wellington stormed, yard by yard, with 20,000 men, before he could

               Rest.                            197

cross the Bidassoa ; and to have taken that mountain seemed a deed

of old giants. Behind it were peaks of everlasting snow, gleaming

white in the glorious sun, and beneath it the shore of St. Sebastian

and Fontarabia, and then the Spanish hills, fading away to the right
Iinto infinite space along the Biscayan shore.
                                                shall go and sit

there the whole afternoon. We drove through Landes yesterday, too,

and saw the pine trees hacked for turpentine, and a little pot hung to

each, with clear turpentine running in, and in the tops of the young

Itrees great social nests of the pitzocampo moth-caterpillar, of which

have got some silk, but dared not open the nest, for their hairs are

deadly poison, as the old Romans knew. Tell Grenville I saw a

steamer come out over the bar just now tugging two schooners, and

another huge steamer far out at sea, going, perhaps to Gibraltar and

then to Alexandria. The rocks here are of the true old willow-plate
pattern, and bridged over by the Emperor, just like them -- all caves and
holes -- and the sea, instead of running over the rocks, runs through

them. There is one opposite my window, just like a thing in a play

house scene

  I" am just in after a long lounging afternoon under the Villa

Eugenie, where I found many curious fossils, and fell asleep on the sand.

The sea, which was deep blue, has been invaded from the north by a vast

Imass of mud, presume the outflow of Loire, Garonne, and Adour after

these great floods. It is curious to watch the battle between the two
waters, quite unmixed, owing to their different specific gravity --the

yellow water getting on the top of the blue and burying it. The hedges
here are full of magnificent canes, ten to twelve feet high, ' Arundo

donax,' with which oxen are driven, fish caught, and boys fight. The

horses here all have necklaces of bells, like hawks' bells, which sound

very pretty, and go like brave little rats as they are, and the oxen are

Idarlings. . . . Oh, the blessed, blessed feeling of having nothing to do !

   start sometimes and turn round guiltily, with the thought, 'Surely

I Iought to be doing something -- have forgotten something,' and then
to feel that there is nothing to do even if I wanted ! It will make me
            "
quite well

                                                                                                                PAU, Sunday.

  I" I am writing from a place which, for beauty, beats everything

ever saw, and all the better for finding your dear letter here, and one

Ifrom Grenville, which shall answer at once. This place is a mixture

of Bath and Edinburgh ; at its foot, below, the beautiful chateau where

Henry IV. ' Le Monstre Henri ' was born, a valley of flat grass, filled
with poplars, the Gare, a glacier torrent rolling over acres of grey

198 Charles Kingsley.

gravel. On the south bank of the town the loveliest chateaux, parks,

allks, flower-gardens, trees full of singing-birds, whose notes are new to

me, and trees covered with purple flowers (Judas ?) wisterias, and

yellow banksia roses over every wall. Frogs barking, rattling, making a

dozen noises unknown at home. Opposite, broken wooded hills

covered with chateaux. Ten miles off, a purple wall with white

streaks, which is not the Pyrenees, but is about as high as Snowdon ;

twenty miles off, an abyss of cloud and snow, which is the Pyrenees.

It is a place to live in ! a great town, city one ought to say, as it is

roy"alWferomwenatll  ages,   and in the loveliest spot one can  imagine.    for  why   ?
                     to the   English church, after having all  been ill ;
Ithe water is horrible, suppose from the great age of the town. So
ICane and I flee to the mountains to-morrow.
                                                                will write again
Iwhen return. We purpose to be here three or four days, then Bag-

nieres, Taches, rail to Toulouse,  Carcassonne,    Beziers (all the scenes
                                   have wished    to realise to myself for
of the Albigense horrors, which I

years), and so to the Mediterranean and Perpignan. Then we may or

may not go via Barcelona to Madrid, pick up Anthony, and come home

with him. But I have no plans, and don't intend to have any. Write
your next letter to Poste Restante, Toulouse. I am much better
Ihere ; though the water has upset me, feel better to-day than I have
felt at all. If I had wits I should tell you about Orthez, and the noble

ruin we saw there; one of the Duke's great battle-fields. But you
should make R
                             read up this country in Napier's ' Peninsular War,'

beginning at the passage of the Bidassoa, and following me hither and
to Toulouse. How I shall devour it when I get home
                                                                                 The

wine-seller opposite has made     a  failure  --  why  can      they  never      spell
                                         "
English words ? --Scoht wiskey.  ..  ..

                             TO HIS YOUNGEST BOY.

"My dear little Man,                                                             Pah.

" I was quite delighted to get a letter from you so nicely written.
IYesterday I went by the railway to a most beautiful place, where am
staying now. A town with an old castle, hundreds of years old, where
the great King Henry IV. of France was born, and his cradle is there still,

made of a huge tortoiseshell.        Underneath the castle are beautiful
walks and woods -- all green, as if it was summer, and roses and flowers,
and birds, singing -- but different from our English birds. But it is quite

summer here because it is so far south. Under the castle, by the river,

are frogs that make a noise like a rattle, and frogs that bark like toy-

dogs, and frogs that climb up trees, and even up the window-panes --

Pau and the Eternal Snow.                                       199

they have suckers on their feet, and are quite green like a leaf. Far

away, before the castle are the great mountains, ten thousand feet high,
Icovered with snow, and the clouds crawling about their tops.
                                                                    am
Igoing to see them to-morrow, and when I come back will tell you.
IBut have been out to-night, and all the frogs are croaking still, and

making a horrid noise. Mind and be a good boy and give Baba my
Ilove. Tell George
                    am coming back with a great beard and shall

frighten him out of his wits. There is a vulture here in the inn, but he

is a little Egyptian vulture, not like the great vulture I saw at Bayonne.

Ask mother to show you his picture in the beginning of the bird book.
He is called Neophra Egyptiacus, and is an ugly fellow, who eats dead

horses and sheep. There is his picture.  " Your own Daddy,
                                                    "C. KINGSLEY."

  I" have taken quite a new turn, and my nerve and strength have
I Icome back, from three days in the Pyrenees. What have seen can

not tell you. Things unspeakable and full of glory. Mountains whose

herbage is box, for miles and thousands of feet, then enormous silver

firs and beech, up to the eternal snow. We went up to Eaux-Chaudes

--a gigantic Lynmouth, with rivers breaking out of limestone caverns

hundreds of feet over our heads. There we were told that we must

take horses and guides up to the Plateau of Bioux Artigues, to see the
Pic du Midi, which we had been seeing for twenty-eight miles. We

wouldn't, and drove up to Gabas to lounge. Cane and I found the

mountain air so jolly that we lounged on for an hour -- luckily up the

right valley, and behold, after rochers moutonne"s, and moraines, show

ing the enormous glaciers which are extinct, we came to a down, which
we knew by inspiration was the Plateau. We had had a good deal of

snow going up, but a good road cut through it for timber carts. We

climbed three hundred feet of easy down, and there it was right in
front, nine thousand feet high, with the winter snow at the base -- the

Ieternal snow holding on by claws and teeth where it could above.
could have looked for hours. I could not speak. I cannot understand

it yet. Right and left were other eternal snow-peaks ; but very horrible.

Great white sheets with black points mingling with the clouds, of a
Idreariness to haunt one's dreams.
                                    don't like snow mountains.
" The Pic above is jolly, and sunlit and honest. The flowers were not all
out -- only in every meadow below gentiana verna, of the most heavenly

azure, and huge oxslips : but I have got some beautiful things -- a prim
rose, or auricula, among others. To-day we saw Eaux Bonnes -- the

rival place, which the Empress is bedizening with roads and fancy

     200 Charles Kingsley.

     trees and streets at an enormous cost : two great eternal snow-peaks

     there, but not so striking. Butterflies glorious, even now. The common

     one, the great Camberwell beauty (almost extinct in England), a huge
     black butterfly with white edge ; we couldn't catch one. The day before

     yesterday, at Eaux Chaudes, two bears were fired at, and a wolf seen.

     With every flock of sheep and girls are one or two enormous mastiffs,

     which could eat one, and do bark nastily. But when the children call

     them and introduce them to you formally, they stand to be patted, and

     eat out of your hand ; they are great darlings, and necessary against
     bear and wolf. So we did everything without the least mishap -- nay,
     with glory -- for the folk were astonished at our getting to the Plateau on

     our own hook. The Mossoos can't walk, you see, and think it an awful

     thing. A Wellington College boy would trot there in three-quarters of

     an hour. Last night, pour combk, we (or rather I) did something

     extra -- a dear little sucking earthquake, went off crash-- bang, just

     under my bed. I thought something had fallen in the room below,
     though I wondered why it hove my bed right up. Got out of bed, hear

     ing a woman scream, and hearing no more, guessed and went to bed.

     It shook the whole house and village but no one minded. They said
                                              ;

                                                   It

                                                                    a
                                                                           it,
     they had lots of young earthquakes there, but they went off before they

     had time to grow. Lucky for the place.   was very queer sensation,

     and made most awful noise.a

        " Now for our plans. We leave to-morrow for Montrejean and

     so to Toulouse, where expect letter, and then to Barcelona vid
                       I                   a

     Perpignan."

                                                                                           Marseilles.

        " Here am, having been comforted much by your telegram of last
     night, and half hoping may have letter to-morrow -- in this wonder
       I
                     is I

                                                           a
                                                                                       is

                                                                                   is
     ful place, the new Paris and new Liverpool, which rising round the

     old Phocaean city. The most splendid place, with the most splendid

     environs. The mistral dying out, but the dust still terrible. The

     scenery here, along the Mediterranean coast, was very beautiful and

     strange. But the mistral has prevented our seeing anything yet but                                 a

     beautiful collection of Mediterranean shells and south French birds, and

     buying ourselves   those  delightful     necessaries of the climate,                  white
     umbrellas         "

a       " am quite well to-day, and have been on a glorious drive round

   IIthe city, along five miles of sea-wall with figs, aloes, and pines, and such
        noble view of the sea.
        " am very glad to be able to talk over the South with you, though,

             Carcassonne and the Inquisition.                    201

of course, this is not to be compared to Genoa, being so much of it

new. Thirty years ago there were 60,000 people, and now 400,000, and

it is growing daily. The works are enormous, the houses magnificent,
and they have brought the Durance water over the finest aqueduct in
the world, and sent it up to the tops of the houses. There are fountains

everywhere. I have seen one palm-tree, which pleased me much, and

the ' caprificus,' the wild fig, one reads about in Latin Poets, growing
out of rocks and ruins. That was a great pleasure. Almost the only
thing which grows on these barren cliffs is white Alyssum-- what you

are so fond of in the garden.

   " Lyons to-morrow. There I shall hear from my darlings, of whom I
dream every night. Whom should I just meet but Henry Glyn ? Just

come to this Hotel from Nice. Mistral awful last night again . . . ."

                                                                                                              NARBONNE.

" It is strange to be sitting here and writing to you, just as if I had

been travelling all my life. The novelty of the thing has worn off, and

I long to be home. But I believe I am quite right in going on. I saw

"... Ienough yesterday to make the groundwork of a whole romance.
                  was delighted with your letter about Garibaldi and Clifden
. . . . he is a noble man, if ever there was one ; and his reception by

the English is a great political fact, which will make all tyrants and

cdf"arWdse  tremble from the   Pope downwards.   fortified  place, where walls
             were yesterday   at Carcassonne, a

were built by Roman, Visigoth, Mussulman, Romane (i.e. Albigense)

and then by French kings. Such a remnant of the old times as I have

dreamed of-- now being all restored by M. Viollet-le-Duc, at the expense
of Government --with its wonderful church of St. Nazaire, where Roman
Corinthian capitals are used by the romance people -- 9-10 century.
We went down into real dungeons of the Inquisition, and saw real chains

and torture rings, and breathed more freely when we came up into the

//air, and the guide pointed to the Pyrenees and said ' n'y a point de

demons let.'                           Narbonne is very curious, once the

   " I shall never forget that place.

old Roman capital,     then the    Albigense. Towers, Cathedral, Arch
                       wonderful.    Whole quarries of Roman remains.
bishop's palace --all

The walls, built by Francis I., who demolished the old Roman and
IfGothic walls are a museum of antiquities in themselves.
                                                                 you want to

have a souvenir of Narbonne, read in my lectures Sidonius's account of

Theodoric the Visigoth (not Dietrich the Amal) and his court here.
His palace                    It probably stood where
             is long gone.                                  the  Archbishop's
palace does                   my window . . . ."
             now --opposite

202 Charles Kingsley.

                                                                              NlsMeS.

I If I". . . . Here am. It is all like a pleasant dream.                                                                                  had
                   Ito show it to ! But
but you and R                                     have no one to share
Iwith me the mere pleasure of existence of this sunny South.
                                                                                                                                          am

sitting after a cafe-au-lait and before a cold bath, at 8.30, at an open

window. Garden, trees, flowers, fountain outside, with people sitting

out on the benches already, doing nothing but simply live; and

more and more will sit there, till 10 to-night; from 7 to 10 the
whole population of this great city will be in the streets, not

sunning but mooning themselves, quite orderly and happy, listening to

music, and cutting their little jokes, along the boulevards, under the
Ibeautiful trees these French have the sense to plant.
                                                                              understand

them now. They are not Visigoths, these fellows. They are the

descendants of the old Roman Gauls, the lovers of the town, and

therefore they make their towns liveable and loveable with trees and

fountains, and bring the country into the town, while the Teutons

take the town out into the country, and love each man his own garden

and park, like us English -- the only real Teutons left in the world.

But what a country they have made of              these brave French For
                                               it,                            a
one hundred miles yesterday, what had been poor limestone plain wasis
                                                         a it                        !
garden. A scrap or two saw of the original vegetation                                 donkey
a                         it I

     il                            is
would have starved on. But they have cleared all off for ages, ever

since the Roman times, and             one sea of vines, with olive, fig, and

mulberry planted among them. Where there                       hill  it       exactly like
                                                                          is

the photographs of the Holy Land and Nazareth --limestone walls with

nothing but vineyards and grey olives planted in them, and raised
stone paths about them. The only green thing -- for the soil
                                                                                        red,
and the vines are only sprouting -- here and there             it
                                       '                                      field of the
                                                                     is a
                                           is                             a
Roman plant, lucerne, as high as one's knee already.                          came by
                                                                       I
                                                                                      is

                                                                                  I
Beziers, where the Inquisitor cried, Kill them all, God will know His
own,' and they shut them into the Madelaine and killed them all --

Catholics as well as Albigenses, till there was not                  soul alive in

Beziers, and the bones are there to this day.is'

   " But this land beautiful -- as they say, Si Dieu vcnait encore sur la

terre, viendrait demeurer a Beziers,' and, indeed                    just like, as

have said, the Holy Land. Then we came to immense flats -- still in

vine and olive, and then to sand hills, and then upon the tideless shore

broke the blue Mediterranean, with the long lateen sails, as in pictures.

It was a wonderful feeling to a scholar * to see the schoolboy's sea for
           it
* " There      is

                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                       it,

                                                                                                                                       '
           at last. The long line of heavenly blue, and over                  far away, the

white-peaked lateen sails, and there, close to the rail, beyond the sand-hills, delicate

           The Sacred Sea.   203

the first time, and so perfectly, in a glory of sunshine and blue ripple.
We ran literally through it for miles between Agde and Cette -- tall

asphodel growing on the sand hills, and great white iris and vines. We

are going to do the town to-day, and the Pont du Gard to-morrow. I

Iam quite well, and have been enjoying the most glorious two weeks of
sunshine.  have not seen rain for ten days. It blew a great sirocco

for four days, but even that is gone now. I shall come back to you a

I Idifferent man. My brain is getting quite clear and well. Tell M. and G.

that love them very much, and that have seen the most beautiful

butterflies, and hear the tree-frogs quacking like drakes in the tops of

the trees, but cannot see them. The butterflies are Podalirius, the

great striped swallow-tail, and the Antiope, Camberwell beauty, black

with a white edge--(tell M. to find them out in the butterfly-book) -- and
such yellows ! We are just back from the Pont du Gard. I thought of

your having seen it with delight. I will tell you all to-morrow. Tell

G. the horses had foxes' brushes fastened between their ears to keep off
                          "
the flies  God bless you
" My first impression of the Pont du Gard was one of simple fear.
I' It was so high that it was dreadful,' as Ezekiel says. Then said,
again and again, ' A great people and a strong. There hath been none

like before them, nor shall be again, for many generations.' As, after

fifteen miles of the sea of mulberry, olive, and vine, dreary from its

very artificial perfection, we turned the corner of the limestone glen,

and over the deep blue rock-pool, saw that thing hanging between earth

and heaven, the blue sky and green woods showing through its bright

yellow arches, and all to carry a cubic yard of water to Nismes, twenty

miles off, for public baths and sham sea-fights (' nau-maelicas ') in the
amphitheatre, which even Charlemagne, when he burnt the Moors out of

wavelets are breaking for ever on a yellow beach, each in exactly the same place as
the one which fell before. One glance shows us children of the Atlantic that we are

on a tideless sea.

   "There it is,-- the sacred sea. The sea of all civilization, and almost all history,
girdled by the fairest countries in the world ; set there that human beings from all its
shores might mingle with each other, and become humane -- the sea of Egypt, of
Palestine, of Greece, of Italy, of Byzant, of Marseilles, and this Narbonnaise, ' more
Roman than Rome herself,' to which we owe the greater part of our own progress ;

the sea, too, of Algeria, and Carthage, and Cyrene, and fair lands now desolate,
surely not to be desolate for ever -- the sea of civilization. Not only to the Christian,
nor to the classic scholar, but to every man to whom the progress of his race from
barbarism toward humanity is dear, should the Mediterranean Sea be one of the most
august and precious objects on this globe ; and the first sight of it should inspire
reverence and delight, as of coming home --home to a rich inheritance in which he
has long believed by hearsay, but which he sees at last with his own mortal corporal
eyes." -- From Ocean to Sea, Prose Idylls, p. 220.

204 Charles Kings ley.

      could not destroy. -- Then felt the brute greatness of that Roman
it,                              I

             ;
people and an awe fell upon me as may have fallen on pooris ? it

Croc, the Rook, king of the Alemans --but that a long story, --when
                                                            is

                                                                           I
he came down and tried to destroy this city of the seven hills, and

ended in being shown about in an iron cage as The Rook. But doubt

not when he and his wild Alemans came down to the Pont du Card they
said was the work of dwarfs --of the devil
it                                                          We walked up to the top,
       is it
through groves of Ilex, Smilax, and Coronella (the first time have seen

  growing), and then we walked across on the top. A false step, and
                                                            is

                                                                 I
                                                                          if
one was a hundred feet down, but that                    not my line. Still, any

one giddy, he had better not try it. The masonry wonderful, and

instead of employing the mountain limestone of the hills, they have

brought the most splendid Bath oolite from the hills opposite. There
are the marks cut by the old fellows --horse-hoofs, hatchets, initials,

&c, as fresh as paint. The Emperor has had                  all repaired from
                                                            ; it
the same quarries, stone for stone. Now, after 1600 years, they are             a

going to bring the same water into Nismes by it. When we crossed,

was in new world. Genista Anglica, the prickly needle furze of our
I

                  aa
commons (rare with us), in great golden bushes and box, shrubby
                           I is
thyme,                wonderful blue lily, bee-orchis, and asters, white, yellow,
purple (which won't dry, for the leaves fall off). --Then wild rosemary,
and twenty more plants never saw. We went below into natural

park of ilex and poplar (two or three sorts), and watched such butter

flies and the bridge, till Cane said, This               too perfect to last,' which
                                         ;'
                                                                            For such
                                                     is
frightened me and made me pray and there was reason.                          and yet

 ....day never had in my life of beauty and wonder
a

   I
       is I
there one thing more glorious and precious than the whole material
universe, -- and that                                    "
                           is    woman's love
                              a

" stopped at Nismes, and begin again at Avignon. We saw to-day

the most wonderful Roman remains.        I     have brought back a little book

of photographs.            But the remarkable thing was the Roman ladies'

baths in a fountain bursting up out of the rock, where, under colonnades,
they walked about, in or out of the water as they chose. All standing,
                                                            I

                                                                        is
and could be used to-morrow,     it      the prudery of the priests allowed
                                     if
it. Honour to those Romans-- with all their sins, they were the cleanest

people the world has ever seen. But to tell you all         saw at Nismes

would take book. Perhaps will make one some day                                    Good
I
       I

                        a
bye.          shall write again to morrow from this, the most wonderful place

have yet seen."

                                                                                           Avignon, Sunday.

   " We are still here under the shadow of that terrible fortress which the
Holy Fathers of mankind erected to show men their idea of paternity.

       Avignon and its Dungeons.                              205

IA dreadful dungeon on a rock. The vastest pile of stone ever saw.
IMen asked for bread, and they gave a stone, most literally.
                                                              have seen

La Tour de la Glaciere, famous for its horrors of 1793, but did not care
....to enter. The sight here are the walls -- very nearly perfect, and being
all restored by Viollet-le-Duc, under government  We are enjoy
ing here such weather as I hope we shall never see in England. Did
you ever hear of a mistral ? It is on this wise. The whole of the air

between the Alps and Pyrenees rushes into the Mediterranean from
north-west -- a three or four days' gale, with a bright blue sky, cold wind,

parching and burning, with not dust merely but gravel, flying till the

distances are as thick as in an English north-easter. It is a fearful wind,

and often damages crops severely ; but they say it is healthy and brac

ing, and so I find it ; but the roar and rush, and the dust and dirt, beat
anything I ever felt. When one has a gale in England it has the courtesy

to water the streets first. To-morrow for the Mediterranean again, vi&

the plain of Crau, where Zeus threw great stones on the savages, who

attacked Hercules as he came back from Spain with Gorgon's heads--a

Iplace have longed to see for years . . . ."

                                                              Lyons.

  I" Here found your letter, which was as cold water to a thirsty soul.
. . . . I intend, please God, to be home on the 22nd, and I believe, shall

bring home a stock of health with me. My brain never excites itself or
....tries to work, and I sleep excellently. These southern suns are terrible
things, but I had no sunstroke  I have seen enough in these last

two or three days to last me for months. Slept at Orange the night be

fore last, and saw the wonderful theatre, triumphal arch, &c. Then on
to Lyons in the afternoon up the Rhone -- the beauty of which for one
hundred miles nearly is past telling -- like the best parts of the Rhine

and Moselle --one peep of the Alps, with Monte Viso, a cone of dazzling

white, nearly one hundred miles off. We can see Mont Blanc from

here--only we can't, for the cloud to-day. It thundered over the Alps

....in the afternoon. Below, we have not had a drop of rain for three
weeks  I Ihave learnt a great deal in this town.  have learnt
more history than I should have learnt at home in a year, and I have
learnt, I hope, more tolerance, and wider views of man and God's pur
Ipose in putting him here.      cannot say that I have become more

tolerant of the cafards, who set up on every high place their goddess-

Ivirgin. But have learnt to love these French people, and to feel that

we have much to learn from them, just as they have from us. Tell M.

that her letter was delightful, and that I will give her lessons in the

geography of France. Tell G. that there is a wonderful mechanical

2o6 Charles Kingsley.

Iclock in the cathedral here, and when have seen                           will write to
I
                     it.
                      J.
                                        is
                                      I
                                                         iIt,
                  If M. in danger must come home and see him,
....him all about
and must be at Cambridge to meet the Prince                      Write to Hotel

Windsor, Paris."

                  TO HIS YOUNGEST DAUGHTER.

" My Darling Mary,                                                               Biarritz.
                                               long letter about all sorts of things.
      " am going to write you
;I                is
                                            a
And first, this place full of the prettiest children ever saw, very like
                                                         it I
English, but with dark hair and eyes, and none of them look poor or
                                                                        ;
ragged but so nicely dressed, with striped stockings, which they knit
themselves, and Basque shoes, made of canvas, worked with red and

purple worsted. There a little girl here six years old, a chemist'sis
daughter, who knits all her own woollen stockings. Mrs. * * * * has
given her Mademoiselle Lili, and she has learnt
                                                                 all by heart, and we
                                       All the children go to a school kept
;

     I

            it

                           a
                                   a;

                          I it.
have great fun making her say

by nuns and am sure the poor nuns are very kind to them, for they
laugh and romp seems to me all day long. In summer most of them

wear no shoes or stockings, for they do not want them but in winter

they are wrapped up warm and have not seen one ragged child or

tramp, or any one who looks miserable. They never wear any bonnets.

The little babies wear white cap, and the children a woollen cap with

pretty colours, and the girls smart handkerchief on their back hair, and

the boys and men wear blue and scarlet caps like Scotchmen, just the

sha"pTehoef  mushrooms, and a red sash.        and   so  gentle  and wise,  the  men
             oxen here are quite yellow,

make them do exactly what they like.           is I  will draw you an ox cart when
                                                                 a

                                                                      I
                                                                                       a
                                                                                  I
come home. The banks here are covered with enormous canes, as high
as the eaves of our house. They tie one of these to fir pole, and make

a huge long rod, and then go and sit on the rocks and fish for doradas,

which are fish with gilt heads. There                an old gentleman in scarlet

blouse and blue mushroom just gone down to fish and am going to
look at him. There are the most lovely sweet smelling purple pinks on
the rocks here, and the woods are full of asphodel, great lilies, four feet

high, with white and purple flowers.           'I   saw the wood yesterday where
the dreadful fight was between the French and English -- and over the

place where all the brave men lay buried grew one great flower-bed of'
asphodel. So they slept in the meads of asphodel,' like the old Greek

heroes in Homer. There were great lords and ladies,' (arums) there,
growing in the bank, twice  as big as ours, and not red, but white
                               But you cannot think how beautiful                and
primrose --most beautiful.                                                        the

But one Eternal.                                         207

commons are, they are like flower gardens, golden with furze, and white

with potentilla, and crimson with sweet smelling Daphne, and blue with
Ithe most wonderful blue flower which grows everywhere.
                                                         have dried

them all.

   " Tell your darling mother I am quite well, and will write to her to
morrow. Tell her I met last night at dinner a Comtesse de M. (nee

D -- ), the most charming old Scotch Frenchwoman, with snow-white

Ipowdered hair, and I drew her portrait for her. There, that is all have

to say. Tell Grenville they have made a tunnel under the battle-field,

for the railroad to go into Spain, and that on the top of the tunnel there

Iis a shaft, and a huge wheel, to pump air into the tunnel, and that

....will bring him home a scarlet Basque cap, and you and Rose Basque

shoes

                                                                "YOUR OWN DADDY."

   He now returned to work and letters, and writes to Mr.
Maurice --

                                                                                                       EVERSLEY, Friday.

  " I have just read your letter to the Bishop of London. You have
Istruck at the root of the matter in every page. For me, am startled

by hearing a man talk of the eternity of hell-fire, who believes the
IfAthanasian Creed, that there is but one Eternal.
                                                    so, then this fire

is the fire of God -- yea, is God himself, whom the Scriptures formally
identify with that fire. But if so, it must be a fire of purification, not of

mere useless torment ; it must be a spiritual and not a physical fire, and

its eternity must be a good, a blessed, an ever useful one ; and amena

ble to the laws which God has revealed concerning the rest of his

attributes, and especially to the great law ' when the wicked man turneth

he shall save his soul alive.' This eternal law no metaphors of fire and

Ibrimstone can abrogate. But have much more to say on all this ;
I Ionly am not well enough to formulise it ; so must content myself, as
I have for some time past, with preaching Him whom you bid me
preach, sure that if I can show people His light, that of itself will dissi

pate their darkness.

   I" am come back (from France) better, but not well, and unable to

take any mental exertion."

   Before going abroad he had given a lecture at Aldershot
Camp on the " Study of History," and preached at Whitehall
for the Consumptive Hospital; and on his return had preached
one of his finest Eversley sermons, " Ezekiel's Vision," before the

208 Charles Kingsley.

Queen at Windsor Castle, and a remarkable one on " the Wages
of Sin is Death," at the Chapel Royal, St.
accused him of preaching a " soft " gospel  James's.    Those who
                                             and an   " indulgent "

God, would have believed otherwise if they had been present

and had heard his burning words, and watched the fiery

earnestness with which then and always he addressed a London

 congregation.

  "... The wages of sin and the end of sin is death. Not the

 punishment of sin, but something much worse --the wages of sin and
 the end of sin.

    " And how is that worse ? My friends, every sinner knows so well

 in his heart that it is worse news, more terrible news, for him, that he
 tries to persuade himself that death is only the arbitrary punishment

 of his sin ; or, quite as often, that the punishment of his sin is not

 even death, but eternal torment in the next life.

    " And why ? Because as long as he can believe that death, or hell,

are only punishments arbitrarily fixed by God against his sins, he can
hope that God will let him off the punishment. Die, he knows he
must, because all men die, and so he makes up his mind to that ; but

being sent to hell after he dies, is so very terrible a punishment, that he

cannot believe that God will be so hard on him as that. No ; he will get
off, and be forgiven at last somehow ; for surely God will not condemn
him to hell. And so he finds it very convenient and comfortable to

believe in hell, just because he does not believe that he is going there,

whoever else may be.

    " But, it is a very terrible, heart-rending thought, for a man to find

out that what he will receive is not punishment, but wages ; not punish
ment, but the end of the very road he is travelling on. That the wages
of sin, and the end of sin, to which it must lead, are death ; and that

every time he sins he is earning those wages, deserving them, meriting
them, and therefore receiving them by the just laws of the world of
God. That does torment him, that does terrify him, if he will look
steadfastly at the broad plain fact. You need not dream of being let
off, respited, reprieved, pardoned in any way. The thing cannot be

done. It is contrary to the laws of God, and of God's universe. It is
as impossible as that fire should not burn, or water run up-hill. It
is not a question of arbitrary punishment, which may be arbitrarily

remitted, but of wages, which you must needs take, weekly, daily, and
hourly ; and those wages are death ; a question of travelling on a

certain road, whereon, if you travel it long enough, you must come to
the end of it ; and the end is death. Your sins are killing you by

                       Wages not Punishment.                                                                                       209

inches ; all day long they are sowing in you the seeds of disease and

death. Every sin which you commit with your body shortens your

bodily life. Every sin you commit with your mind, every act of

stupidity, folly, wilful ignorance, helps to destroy your mind, and leave

you dull, silly, devoid of right reason. Every sin you commit with your
spirit, each sin of passion and temper, envy and malice, pride and

vanity, injustice and cruelty, extravagance and self-indulgence, helps to

destroy your spiritual life, and leave you bad, more and more unable to

do the right and avoid the wrong, more and more unable to discover

right from wrong ; and that last is spiritual death, the eternal death of
your moral being. There are three parts in you --body, mind, and

spirit ; and every sin you commit helps to kill one of these three, and,

in  "mSaon,y  cases,   to kill all three       together.
              sinner,   dream not of           escaping
                                                          punishment  at the last.                                                 You

are being punished now, for you are punishing yourself; and you will

continue to be punished for ever, for you will be punishing yourself for

ever, as long as you go on doing wrong, and breaking the laws which

God has appointed for body, mind, and spirit.

    " Oh, how men hate that message !-- the message that the true wrath of

God, necessary, inevitable, is revealed from heaven against all unrighteous
ness of men. How they writhe under it ! How they shut their ears to

   and cry to their preachers No Tell us of any wrath of God but
that Tell us rather of the torments of the damned, of frowning God,
of absolute decrees to destruction, of the reprobation of millions before
it,

         !
                                  ;

                                  it,

                                                                         :
                                                                              '

                                                                                          !

                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                                          it.
they are born any doctrine, however fearful and horrible because we

don't quite believe but only think that we ought to believe                                                                        Yes,

tell us anything rather than that news, which cuts at the root of all
our pride, of all our comfort, and all our superstition -- the news that we

cannot escape the consequences of our own actions that there are no
                                                                      ;
                                                                         ;
                                                                                                             ;
back stairs up which we may be smuggled into heaven that as we sow,

so we shall reap that we are filled with the fruits of our own devices
    :
                       ;;

                                            ;
every man his own poisoner, every man his own executioner, every man

his own suicide that hell begins in this life, and death begins before
we die -- do not say that because we cannot help believing
                                                          is it                       for our
                                                              is
own consciousness and own experience tell us                          true  No wonder
                                                                          a !'
                                                                                 ;it
that the preacher who tells men that, hated, called Rationalist,is                                                                 aa

Pantheist, heretic, and what not, just because he does set forth such
living God, such justice of God, such wrath of God as would make
              aa                               it,
                             a                      a

                            if
the sinner tremble, he believed in not merely once in way, when
                                                                      ;
                                                                                  a

                                                                                                p
he hears      stirring sermon about endless torments but all day long,

going out and coming in, lying on his bed and walking by the way, always
      vol. 11.

2io Charles Kingsley.

haunted by the shadow of himself, knowing that he is bearing about in
him the perpetually growing death of sin." *

                         TO REV.      .

                                                              EVERSLEY, July 9, 1864.

I" ought before to have acknowledged the excellent sermon which

you were kind enough to send me ; but ill-health and absence from
Ihome have put my correspondence into confusion.
                                                        am much pleased

to find a young clergyman expressing himself in language at once so

sound and so liberal ; and much pleased, too, to find him saying that

he owes some little to my teaching. Believe me, meanwhile, that you

will learn a thousand times more than you can from me, or from any

man, from honest prayer, honest reading of your Bible, and honest

study of the facts of human nature, as you see them round you in daily
life-- remembering that they are, as Bacon says, ' voluntatem dei in rebus

revelatam.'"

   In sending this letter to the editor, the clergyman to whom it

"...was addressed, says :--
               You will confer a favour upon me by allowing me, in however
humble a way, to testify to Canon Kingsley's great influence over the
                         It was not only the crowded room and
young men at Cambridge.

breathless attention that told the interest, but many of us now, at the

interval of fifteen years of busy life in our positions as clergymen, in deal

Iing at home and at Missions (to which much of my life is devoted) with

men of thought and mind, can trace back, as can, their first impres
                                                        "
sions of true manly Christianity to his stirring words

   This year the proposal for the enclosure of Eversley Common
land was decided on, and was a real distress to him. He regretted
it not only from mere aesthetic point of view, feeling that
were carried out the characteristic beauty of the parish he loved
so well would be gone: but for the sake of the poor man who kept
his geese and cut his turf at his own will the loss too of the
              :a
                     a the

                                                                                       ;

                                                                           : if

                                                                                           it
cricket ground where the men and boys had played for years,
vexed him. " Eversley will no longer
                                         the same Eversley to
me." It was wound to his heart which never healed.

In the autumn great cloud came over Eversley in the loss of

Judge Erskine and he writes to his son Mr. Henry Erskine

              * " Water of Life, and other Sermons."

                        A righteous Man.                                                                 211

  I" Few men," can sympathise more with you and yours than do, be

cause few, if any, have lost more in your loss. It looks to me quite

irreparable : the parish without such an influence, and I, in too many

things, without a counsellor, and without the most kind and disinterested
friend I have ever met  I never during all those years asked his

advice without    following it implicitly and finding it right                               and sound.  and
                                                                                              have seen
   " The feeling   in the parish is sound and deep, and I

heard enough to-day to show me that they feel that a wise and good

man is gone from among them, whose like they will not soon see
               Happy are those who call such a man father. In all my
again
experience of men I never met so pure a spirit, combined with such
Isound and manful shrewdness.
                               have learned more from your father
Iof the actual practical business of life than
                                                                                             ever learnt of any

man            What a blessed providence that he should go as he went,

without pain to himself or misery to those who looked on ; ready to die
and sure of the reward of the righteous -- for righteous he was in no

mere theological sense, but in that most human and most divine sense,

which every one, down to the poorest in the parish, understood and
Iadmired.
               believe his influence and example will live here after him.

It shall not be my fault, with God's help, if any one is base enough to
                  "
forget him

   He was busy in the autumn preparing his university sermons
on David, having been selected as one of the preachers at Cam
bridge for 1865, and in a letter to Mr. Maurice he speaks of his

work :

" I have read with delight your words in ' Macmillan ' on the Pope's
Iletter.
               am sure that you are right, and that the most important

lesson to be drawn from it is the one which you point out. It is that
longing for unity which he has outraged --the aspiration which is work
ing, I verily believe, in all thinking hearts, which one thrusts away fiercely

at times as impossible and a phantom, and finds oneself at once so much

meaner, more worldly, more careless of everything worth having, that

one has to go back again to the old dream.

   " But what I feel you have taught me, and which is invaluable to me

in writing these University sermons, from which God send me good

             I
                       is,
                                     a

                                                                                         is
deliverance,      that we need not make the unity from doctrines or

systems, but preach the fact that the unity made by and in the

per"peAtnuadl  government of the Living Christ.                                              that, confusedly
                 do see, that the mediaeval clergy preached

of course, but with clearness and strength to which neither we nor

212 Charles Kingsley.

the modern Papists have attained. They preach their own kingdom,

Iwe a scheme of salvation. From both take refuge more and more

where you have taught me to go -- to the plain words of Scripture, as

interpreting the facts about me.         They lie heavy on my

   "Wish me well through these sermons.

sinful soul."

   When the Christmas vacation was over he went up to Cam
bridge to give these sermons. St. Mary's was crowded with
undergraduates long before the services began, and he felt the
responsibility a heavy one. The subject chosen was " David."

  I" My motives," he says, " for choosing this subject will explain
Iin a very few words. We have heard much of late about ' Muscular

Christianity.' A clever expression, spoken in jest by know not whom,

has been bandied about the world, and supposed by many to represent
some new ideal of the Christian character. For myself, I do not know
what it means. It may mean one of two things. If it mean the first,
Ifit is a term somewhat unnecessary, if not somewhat irreverent.
                                                                  it

mean the second, it means something untrue and immoral.

   " Its first and better meaning may be simply a healthful and manful

Christianity ; one which does not exalt the feminine virtues to the exclu
sion of the masculine. That certain forms of Christianity have com

mitted this last fault cannot be doubted. The tendency of Christianity
during the patristic and the Middle Ages was certainly in that direction.

Christians were persecuted and defenceless, and they betook themselves
to the only virtues which they had the opportunity of practising --gentle

ness, patience, resignation, self-sacrifice and self-devotion --all that is

loveliest in the ideal female character. And God forbid that that side

of the Christian life should ever be undervalued. It has its own beauty
-- its own strength, too, made perfect in weakness ; in prison, in torture,

at the fiery stake or the lonely sick-bed ; in long years of self-devotion
and resignation, and in a thousand womanly sacrifices unknown to man,
but written for ever in God's book of life.

   " But as time went on, and the monastic life, which, whether practised

by men or by women, is essentially a feminine life, became more and

more exclusively the religious ideal, grave defects began to appear in

what was really too narrow a conception of the human character. The
monks of the Middle Ages, in aiming exclusively at the virtues of

women, copied little but their vices. Their unnatural attempt to be

wiser than God, and to unsex themselves, had done little but disease
their mind and heart. They resorted more to those arts which are the

              Chivalry and Muscular Christianity.                              213

weapons of crafty, ambitious, and unprincipled women. They were too

apt to be cunning, false, intriguing. They were personally cowardly, as

their own chronicles declare ; querulous, passionate, prone to unmanly
tears ; at times cruel --cruel with that worst cruelty which springs from

cow"aGrdriacdeually, to supply their defects, another ideal arose. The warriors

of the Middle Ages hoped that they might be able to serve God in the
world -- even in the battle-field ; at least the world and the battle-field

they would not relinquish, but make the best of them. And among
them arose a new and a very fair ideal of manhood ; that of ' the gentle,

very perfect knight,' loyal to his king and to his God, bound to defend

the weak, succour the opprest, and put down the wrong-doer ; with his

lady or bread-giver, dealing forth bounteously the goods of this life to

all who needed ; occupied in the seven works of mercy, yet living in the

world, and in the perfect enjoyment of wedded and family life. This

was the ideal. Of course, sinful human nature fell short of
         it                                                                    and

                                              ;

                                  I

                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                          it,

                                                                                                                                a
defaced      by absurdities but do not hesitate to say that was

higher ideal of Christian excellence than had appeared since the days of

the Apostles, putting aside the quite exceptional ideal of the blessed

ma"rtyArsh. igher ideal,  say, was chivalry, with all its shortcomings.        And
              ;

                   I

                        it

                                     a
for this reason that asserted the possibility of consecrating the whole

manhood, and not merely few faculties thereof, to God and thus
                                                               ;         ; it

contained the first germ of that Protestantism which conquered at the

Reformation                                                    puts upon family
   " Then the Old Testament, with the honour which
                                          it it
                                                      it
and national life, became precious to man, as never had before and

such history as David's became, not as         was with the mediaeval
      a
          a
monks, mere repertory of fanciful metaphors and allegories, but the

solemn example for good and for evil of man of like passions and
                                         it
like duties with the men of the modern world is                that, then the expres
   " Now all that Muscular Christianity means
      is                                           a
sion                                                      a
          if
                                                           is
         altogether unnecessary; for we have had the thing for three

centuries-- and defective likewise, for   not merely muscular but              a

human Christianity which the Bible taught our forefathers, and which

our forefathers have handed down to us."

He closed the course with these words of warning
                          it
" Therefore, settle            in
                                                                                      is

                                                                                                                        :

                                                                                                                       ;;
                          your minds, young men, that the first, and

the last, of all virtues and graces which God can give, self-control

as necessary for the saint and the sage, lest they become fanatics and

pedants, as for the young man in the hey-day of youth and health

214 Charles Kingsley.

but as necessary for the young man as for the saint and the sage, lest,

while they become only fanatics and pedants, he become a profligate
and a cumberer of the ground. Remember this -- remember it now,

in the glorious days of youth, which will never return, but in which

Ifyou are sowing seed of which you will reap the fruit until your dying
day. Know that as you sow, so you will reap.                                                     you sow to the
flesh, you will of the flesh reap corruption ; corruption-- deterioration,

whether of health, of intellect, of character, in some shape or other.

You know not, and no man knows, what the curse will be like : but the

curse will surely come. The thing which is done cannot be undone,

and you will find that out, before and not merely after your dying day.

Therefore rejoice in your youth, for God has given it to you ; but

remember, that for as for each and all of His gifts, God will bring
      if

                        it,

                                                                                              ;
you into judgment. And when the hour of temptation comes, go back
--go back, you would escape -- to what you were all taught at your

mother's knee, concerning the grace of God for that alone will keep

you safe, or angel or archangel, or any created being safe, in this life
and in all lives to come." *

   The letters of 1865 that have been recovered are few. He
was so broken in strength, that to get through the duties of

his professorship and his parish was as much, nay, more than he

could manage, and in the summer he was forced to leave home
with his family for three months' rest, and settle quietly on the

coast of Norfolk.

                            TO TOM HUGHES, ESQ.
                                                                    Eversley, May 21, 1865.

" have delayed writing to you. First, have had tragedy on hand
a II                                  I                                                             ; I;
                      is
                                                     is
                            I                                 a

                                                                       a
next, wanted to tell you the end of it. Henry Erskine, as you

suppose know, dead at the age of forty-nine. We buried him to-day

the father hardly cold in the ground. His death                                                  to me great sorrow
-- gap in my life which feel and cannot fill.
                                                                                                 A nobler, honester,

kindlier man never lived, or one more regretted by men of all kinds

who knew his private worth. Such death as his draws one closer to the
                                   a

men   of our own age             whom one has still left, and among                                 others to you.
        am delighted                                                                                Maurice's side.
   "                             to see you on Mill's committee at
'I
    I

       I

                              a
                                a

                         I
You have done good deal of good work, but never better than that.

wish were Westminster elector for the time, that might work for
                                                                                                 I

him and with you. am much struck with his committee-list in to-day's

Times,' so many men of different opinions and classes, whom one

                                   * Sermons on Davitl.

                          The Holy Trinity.                                                      215

     knew and valued for different things, finding a common cause in Mill,

     IR C , and Holyoake, side by side. I do hope you will succeed.

        am just writing to Mill at Avignon anent this noble book of his on

     Sir W. Hamilton, and shall tell him of many things which ought to
     Iplease him.  answered your good friend as kindly as I could, but as
     II have had to answer dozens -- that the doctors forbid my preaching.

     gave my necessary Whitehall sermon to the Consumptive Hospital as to
     I Ian old and dear friend ; but have refused all others.
                                                                                                 am getting
     better after fifteen months of illness, and I hope to be of some use again
     Isome day; a sadder and a wiser man, the former, at least, grow every
     Iyear.
             catch a trout now and then out of my ponds (I am too weak for

     a day's fishing, and the doctors have absolutely forbidden me my
     Isalmon).
                have had one or two this year, of three and two pounds,
     Iand a brace to-day, near one pound each, so am not left troutless. . . ."

                          TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                                  Eversley, May 18.

     " Your letter comforted me, for (strange as it may seem for me to say
     Iso) the only thing  really care for -- the only thing which gives me
     Icomfort -- is theology, in the strict sense ; though God knows
                                                                                                 know
     little enough about it. I wish one thing -- that you would define for me

     what you mean by being 'baptized into a name.' The preposition in

     its transcendental sense puzzles me, and others likewise. I sometimes

                   it,

                      I
                                                                      it,

                                                                   I
     seem to grasp and sometimes again lose from the very unrealistic

     turn of mind which have in common with this generation. want your
     definition (or translation of the formula into words of this generation)
     that may tell them somewhat as to what you mean.

        " As to the Trinity do understand you. You first taught me that
is a               a

   aI                  I

                                     it

                                                a
                                                             aa

                                               I
                                                       it, I

                                                                                              a
     the doctrine was a live thing, and not mere formula to be swallowed                         a

     by the undigesting reason, and from the time that learnt from you that

        Father meant real Father, Son real Son, and Holy Spirit

     real Spirit, who was really good and holy, have been able to draw all

     sorts of practical lessons from in the pulpit, and ground all my morality,

and great deal of my natural philosophy upon and shall do so more.

The procession of the Spirit from the Father and the Son, for instance,
     Ifmost practically important to me.
                                          the Spirit proceeds only from the

     Father, the whole theorem of the Trinity, as well as its practical results,

     fall to pieces to my mind.  don't mean that good men in the Greek
                                 I. I
                                                         I
     Church are not better than  On the contrary, believe that every

     good man therein believes in the procession from both Father and Son,

     whether he thinks that he does or not. But in this case, as in others,

216 Charles Kingsley.

one has extreme difficulty in remembering, and still more in making

others understand, that a man may believe the facts which the doctrine

connotes without believing the doctrine, just as he may believe that a

horse is a horse, for every practical purpose, though he may have been

     mistaught to call it a cow. It is this slavery to formulae-- this mis

taking of words for conceptions, and then, again of conceptions for

the facts, which seems our present curse ; and how much of it do we
not owe to the Calvinists, who laid again on our necks the yoke of con

ceptions which we were bursting at the Reformation, because neither
                                            It was this which made me reject
we nor our fathers could bear
                          is
     Mansel and Hamilton's The Absolute and The Infinite,' and say,
                                '
      If these men's arguments are good for anything, they prove that
                                I
     either 1. God not The Absolute and The Infinite, as they assert HeI it.
is '              is                        '
       or, 2. That there no God.' What they are meant to prove really
    ;                  ;                       I;
                                                        '
being, that we cannot conceive what we cannot conceive, whichis     not
                                                                    a
new, though true and also, in Mansell's case, that though we cannot           a is

conceive an ^conditional God, we can easily enough conceive an                  I
                                                                 not new. It was
///-conditioned one, which, again, though true,

therefore with great comfort that found Mill, in his chapter iv., take

     exactly the same line against those words only, of course, with infi

nitely more force and clearness.
   " am taking regular course of metaphysic, and so forth, as tonic
     I            a

after the long debauchery of fiction-writing.                say to you, once for all,
Have patience with me, and will pay thee -- not all, but little, and
know you will not take me by the throat. If you did, you would break

my heart which could be much more easily broken than people think.;

If man intensely in earnest after truth, be what may, and alsois
     a                                                 I         ;

intensely disgusted with his own laziness, worldliness, and sensuality,itif it

his heart not difficult to break.is                                      a
   " Poor Spring Rice * That was noble gentleman, and had he had             is
                          !       is
                                                             never met more singleI'
                               a      I
health, might have been noble statesman.      a                                            '
                                                   in                                               !'
eye. Look to the single eye in others,' he once said to me, judge
is
of every man by the first question ask him. Has he an arriere pensce
   I I ?? '  Does he answer what he knows, simply, or what he " thinks
or not
will do " If the former, he
                                  my friend henceforth              the latter, he

     nothing to me.'                                   your letter. You say, The
     " don't quite understand one point

Articles were not intended to bind men's thoughts or consciences

Now, can't help feeling that when they assert proposition, e.g., the
                                                             a

Trinity, they assert that that and nothing else on that matter true, and

                  * The late Right Honourable Stephen Spring Rice.

                    Subscription no Bondage.                            217

Iso bind thought ; and that they require me to swear that believe it so,

and   so    bind my conscience.  condemn        an error, it seems to me quite
            the case where they
   "  In

different. There they proscribe one form of thought, and leave all

others open by implication, binding neither thought nor conscience.

ifThus the Tract XC. argument was quite fair-- its author could have

used it fairly. The Romish doctrine of Purgatory is false ; but denying
that does not forbid me to believe other doctrines of Purgatory to be

true, and to speculate freely on the future state. So that what you say

applies clearly (to me) to the cases in which the Articles deny. It

applies also to all cases in which the Articles do not affirm, eg., endless

torture.

   " Also to all in which it uses words without defining them, eg., the

IArticle on Predestination, which sign in what I conceive to be the

literal sense not only of but of the corresponding passage in St. Paul,
                       ' ; it,
without believing one word of the Calvinistic theory, or that St. Paul

was speaking of the future state at all.
   " But how does your theorem apply where the Articles not only assert,

but define That want to understand.
   " For myself, can sign the Articles in their literal sense toto corde, and
            is, ?
                is

                I
                    I
subscription no bondage to me, and so am sure can you. But all
                                                I II
I  demand        that, in signing the Articles, shall be understood to sign

them and nothing more that do not sign anything beyond the words,
                                 it I
and demand the right to put my construction on the words, answerable only

to God and my conscience, and refusing to accept any sense of the words,

however popular and venerable, unless choose. In practice, Gorham

and Pusey both do this, and nothing else, whenever    suits them.
                                                      it

                                                         I
                                                                      I
demand that shall have just the same liberty as they, and no more.
            I

   " But the world  at large uses verya         powerful, though worthless, argu
ment. Lord ****     answered, when              asked him why the Articles had
                                        I' I I
not defined inspiration, Because they never expected that men would
                                                had to reply -- and think con
arise heretics enough to deny        !
                                       '

vinced him -- that that line of thought would destroy all worth in
                                                sign the XXXIX. Articles, and as
formula, by making signing mean,

many more as the Church has forgotten to, or may have need to,

put"  in.'  the  mob, whose     superstitions   are the very cosmogony  of their
      But
creed, would think that argument conclusive, and say, --of course, you

are expected to believe, over and above, such things as endless torture,

verbal dictation, &c., which are more of the essence of Christianity than

the creeds themselves, or the Being of God.
   " Meanwhile, each would make reservation -- the Evangelical of
                                          a
                                                 a

                                                                                     '
                                                                                                         '

218 Charles Kingsley,

Ithe Calvinist School would say in his heart -- and of course (though

daren't say so) every man is expected to believe conversion, even though

not mentioned ; and the Romanist, of course every man must believe in

the Pope, though not mentioned ; and the reigning superstition, not the

actually signed, becomes the test of faith.
how we are to better this by doing away
formulae

  I" But
                                                      with  subscription,

don't see yet.
   " As long as the Articles stand, and as long as they are interpreted by

lawyers only, who will ask sternly, ' Is it in the bond ? ' and nothing else,
I Ifsee hope for freedom and safety.
                                           subscription was done away,
every man would either teach what was right in his own eyes --which
would be somewhat confusing -- or he would have to be controlled by a

body, not of written words, but of thinking men. From whom may my

Lord deliver me !
" For as soon as any body of men, however venerable, have the power
Igiven them to dictate to me what I shall think and preach,
                                                                    shall
answer --my compact with the Church of England is over. I swore to
Ithe Articles, and not to you.
                                 have preached my last sermon for
you There is my living, give it to whom you will ; I wipe off

of my feet                       and
therefore                        for
Ithe dust          against you,       go  free.       ****
                    do not care
   " And                                  ****   and        trying  to make

the Articles a tyranny, by making them talk popular superstition,

Ibecause have faith sufficient in the honesty and dialectic of an English

lay lawyer to protect me against their devices ; and, for the sake of

freedom, cannot cast in my lot with ****, dearly as I love him.

   " Now, do tell me whether this seems to you sense or nonsense. . . ."

   That his mind was deeply exercised at times, the following
extract in a letter to Mr. Maurice shows :--

  " I feel a capacity of drifting to sea in me which makes me cling
nervously to any little anchor, like subscription. I feel glad of aught

that says to me, ' You must teach this and nothing else ; you must not
Itrun riot in your own dreams !' . . . ."
         may be a comfort to troubled      souls when they remember

the calm assured faith with which he faced life and death, and

when standing on the very threshold of the next world, was
heard repeating again and again, " It is all right--all under rule."

Perhaps his dearly loved George Fox's words best express the
habitual attitude of his heart and mind for thirty years. " And

I saw that there was an Ocean of Darkness and Death : but an

           Visit from Queen Emma.  219

infinite Ocean of Light and Love flowed over the Ocean of

Darkness : and in that I saw the infinite Love of God." --(George
Fox's Journal)

           TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                   Eversley, Saturday.

I I" Many thanks for your letter.
           am very sorry differ from you

about Savonarola. It seems to me that his protest for the kingdom of

God and against sin was little worth, and came to nought, just because

it was from the merely negative inhuman monks' standpoint of the 13th

century ; that he would at best have got the world back to St. Bernard's

time, to begin all over again, and end just where Savonarola had found

them. Centuries of teaching such as his had ended in leaving Italy a

hell on earth ; new medicine was needed, which no monk could give.

A similar case, it seems to me, is that of the poor Port-royalists.

They tried to habilitate the monk-ideal of righteousness. They were

civilized off the face of the earth, as was poor Savonarola, by men

worse than themselves, but more humane, with wider (though shallower)
notions of what man and the universe meant.

   " As for Luther, I am very sorry to seem disrespectful to him, but

the outcome of his demonology was, that many a poor woman died in

shame and torture in Protestant Germany, just because Luther had

given his sanction to the old lie, and he needs excusing solely for that.
I do not undervalue his protest against man's true and real spiritual
Ienemies.
           excuse his protest against certain fancied enemies, which

were not spiritual at all, but carnal, phantoms of the brain, and

suffered to do carnal and material harm. Ever since the 4th century

had this carnal counterfeit of the true demonology been interweaving

itself with Christianity. It had cost the lives of thousands. It is so
horrible a matter that I (who have studied it largely) cannot speak of

Iit calmly, and do not wish to. And of its effects on physical science

say nothing here, disastrously retarding as it has been, and therefore

costing thousands of lives more, and preventing the sick from being

properly treated, or sanitary precautions taken. But of this more when

I have the very great pleasure of becoming your guest."

   In the autumn Queen Emma of the Sandwich Islands came
on a visit of two days to Eversley Rectory. King Kamehameha,
her husband, had read Mr. Kingsley's books and shewas anxious to
know him. She also wished to combine with her visit to Eversley
one to the Wellington College, of which she had heard much,

220 Charles Kingsley.

and where it was said if her little son had lived, he would have

been sent for his education. It was a great pleasure to Mr.

Kingsley to take Queen Emma to the college, and to point out
to her all the arrangements made by the wise and good Prince,

of whom she had heard so much, to make it a first-rate modern

school, and which were so admirably carried out by the Head

Master. Dr. Benson took her all over and into its beautiful
                                   it
chapel and museum. After seeing the boys at dinner in hall,it,

                                                                         a
and tasting their pudding at the high table, she asked for a

half-holiday for them, upon which Ponsonby, then head of the

school, called for three cheers for Queen Emma; and as they
resounded through the dining hall at the granting of her request,

she was startled almost to terror, for was the first time in her

life that she had heard the cheers of English public school boys.

She went on the playground, and for the first time saw game of

cricket, examined the bats, balls, wickets, and pads, looking into

everything with her own peculiar intelligence.                  After dinner

at Eversley Rectory, she drove over again to Wellington to be

present at the evening choral service in chapel, followed the

musical notes of each hymn and chant, and was struck, as every

one was, by the reverent behaviour of the boys. In driving back
to the Rectory that night, she said, " It so strange to me to
                   '
                                                           '

                                                            is
be staying with you and to see Mr. Kingsley. My husband

read your husband's Waterbabies to our little Prince." Queen
Emma wrote soon after an autograph letter to Dr. Benson,

which was read aloud to the boys, expressing her deep gratifica

tion with her visit to Wellington College. At the same time she
wrote to Mr. Kingsley --
                   :
"                                                               November                                   1865.
                                                           a

                                           I
                                                                                                       3,
I  have the pleasure to fulfil my promise of sending you a Book of

Common Prayer in Hawaiian, together with preface written by the

Translator of the former, Kamehameha IV., my late husband, and king

of our islands, and a portrait of myself which will, hope, sometimes re

mind you of one who has learnt to esteem you and Mrs. Kingsley, as

friends in whose welfare and happiness she will always feel the greatest

interest.  Please  remember"  me kindly to your daughters,

                              And  b"eMlieyvedemare  to be,

                                                     M"r.YoKuinrsgsvleeyry,  tr"uElym, ma."

                Wesley and Oxford.                     221

                TO THE REV. J. MONTAGU.

                                                  November 30, 1865.

" I shall be delighted to do all I can for  , but I fear I am a very

Esau now with the Press, going my own way, and joining no literary clique,
....without which one must submit to hatred and abuse  If will
I Isend her books to ' Fraser's Magazine,' will do what can to get them
fair play and a bit of courtesy into the bargain. But really, I have no
influence ; and as for ' living in the 'literary world,' it is just what I don't

....and won't. Not the writing merely, but what a man writes, makes
him an object of interest to me  So you are leading a hum-drum
life--happy man ! Free from ambition, disappointment, fears, shame,
foolish exaltation, vanity and vexation of spirit. Had I not a boy going
to Cambridge, I would never write another word, but live between my

microscope, and my roses. God bless you . . . ."

                                           TO DR. RIGG.

                                                                                  EVERSLEY, December 16, 1865.

  " I shall be very glad to see Wesley's Journals or any thing which ex

plains him to me. He has long seemed to me a true son of Oxford ;
possibly the precursor of the late great Oxford movement. Had he
been born fifty years ago, and under the influences which he himself

originated (qu. e. imposs) he would have been a great high churchman,
the fellow but the superior of Newman and Pusey, and then you would
have been just where many an honest, humorous high churchman is now.

Possibly you would have been a rival of Dr. Hook, of whom you often
remind me. It is these thoughts which make a man liberal --when one
considers how man is the creature of circumstances, and we have nought
but what we have received. Only to escape atheism and despair, let
us remember that the Creator and Ordainer of the circumstances is not
chance or nature, but the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ and of us.

I shall be always glad to hear from you."

                TO , ESQ.

" In reference  to the drawing                                                   October 1, 1865.

                                 of a mammoth on ivory, reported by
Mr. Milne Edwards from La Madelaine, let me call your attention to the

fact, that a proboscidean, or elephantine animal appears again and

again on the sculptured ' standing stones ' of Scotland. A glance at

any good work on them will show the beast, deformed in its lower ex

tremities, as if the sculptor had forgotten the tradition of their form, but

always with a trunk. The occurrence of this form on stones which

222 Charles Kingsley.

(whatever be their age) are probably prior to that of the introduction
of Christianity into Scotland, has long demanded, in my mind, an ex

planation. From whence did these Celts hear of the elephant, and

why should they associate it with the mysterious symbols of their cultus
Iwhich appear on these stones ?
                                 have for some years past believed

the explanation to be, that any elephantine animal had become extinct

a few generations before, and had by that time become mythic, magical,

and sacred."

                  TO MR. T. DIXON.
               (Cork -cutter of Sunderland.)

                                                                                  EVERSLEY, December 28, 1865.

   " You and your friends in free kindness could not have devised a pre

sent more to my taste than ' Bewick's Autobiography,' I have read it

through, and am equally delighted and astonished at it. Brought up

Ias was on ' Bewick's Birds,' and owing much of my early inspirations,

such as they were, to his love of natural scenery as well as his love of
Iornithology,
               always held him to be a great genius in his own line, but
I was not prepared to find him so remarkable a man in other respects --

his temperance and thrift, his simple virtue, his sound and wide views

Ion all matters political and social, astonish me as do the prophecies, if

can so call them, and none more than those on social and economic
reform which has since been carried out -- salmon preservation amongst
the rest. Delightful are the sketches of simple, sturdy, north country

life in the last century. A noble breed of men they must have been,

and we will hope that the race is not worn out ; they cannot be, and

need not be, just what their fathers were.

               ' The old order changcth giving place to  new,

               And God fulfils himself in many ways,

               Lest one good custom should corrupt the world.'

So says Tennyson -- and so you may find it come true ; the times in
which we live after all, are better and not worse than Bewick's, and you

may find it easier, not more difficult, to live a life like Bewick's now
than one hundred years ago. As for regretting the good old-fashioned
life, we must recollect that it too had its bad side. For one thing it

would be impossible now for the country to be plunged into such a war
as Pitt's, or preyed upon by such a swarm of placemen as it was in

Bewick's time, simply because whatever the hand-workers have lost they

have gained in intelligence, in weight, in power of expression, and of
action ; for want of which in Bewick's days they became mere food

for powder at the beck of an aristocracy. The aristocracy too have

           Leopold King of the Belgians.                                 223

learned by the awful lesson of the French Revolution to comport them

selves differently from the eighteenth century, and if they are induced

to forget themselves again there are plenty to give them a stern but

friendly jog and say ' work or perish,' as all classes must do now, high
and low, rich and poor. All Christmas blessings to you and your
Ifriends.
           heartily thank you for your unexpected remembrance of me."

   On the 9th of November, he went, by royal command, to stay
at Windsor Castle, and on the following day, while preaching
before the Court, a telegram came to the Queen to announce the
death of Leopold, King of the Belgians. Mr. Kingsley had been
asked to write a few lines in the album of the Crown Princess

of Prussia, and with his mind full of this great European event,

wrote the following Impromptu, which is inserted here by her
kind permission of her Imperial Highness.

           " A king is dead ! Another master mind    November 10,        1865.

           Is summoned from the world-wide council-hall.
           Ah for some seer, to say what lurks behind --

           To read the mystic writing on the wall !

           " Be still, fond man : nor ask thy fate to know.              KINGSLEY."

              Face bravely what each God-sent moment brings.

              Above thee rules in love, through weal and woe,
              Guiding thy kings and thee, the King of kings.

                                                                    "C.


                CHAPTER XXIV.

                                                   1866-- 1867.
                                                   Aged 47--48.

Cambridge-- Death of Dk. Whewell-- The American Professorship --
     Monotonous Life of the Country Labouring Class -- Penny Readings
     -- Strange Correspondents -- Like of Bewick -- Letters to Max MOli.er
     -- The Jews in Cornwall -- The Meteor Shower-- Letter to Professor
     Adams and Sermon in the Chapel Royal-- The House of Lords -- A
     Father's Education of his Son -- " Fraser's Magazine" -- Bird Life,
      Wood Wrens--Names and Places-- Darwinism-- Beauty ok Colour, its
     Influence and Attractions --Flat-kish -- Ice Problems -- Bagshot Sands
     --St. Andrews and British Association -- Aukrgeldie Castle -- Scottish
     Antiquities-- Horace Field's Heroism -- Rules for Stammerers.

           vol.. 11.

" We were weary, and we                               Arnold.

   Fearful, and we, in our march,

   Fain to drop down and die.
   Still thou turnedst, and still

   Beckonedst the trembler, and still

   Gavest the weary thy hand !

  If in the paths of the world,

   Stones might have wounded thy feet,
  Toil or dejection have tried
  Thy spirit, of that we saw
  Nothing ! To us thou wert still

   Cheerful and helpful and firm.
   Therefore to thee it was given
   Many to save with thyself;
  And at the end of thy day,
   O faithful shepherd I to come
   Bringing thy sheep in thy hand."

                                             Matthew

CHAPTER XXIV.

   WHILE the Professor was giving his usual course of lectures
in the Lent term of 1 866 at Cambridge, a great blow fell upon
the University in the death of Dr. Whewell, Master of Trinity,

and he writes home :

I" am sorry to say Whewell is beaten by his terrible foe. It is only

a question of hours now. The feeling here is deep and solemn. Men

say he was the leader in progress and reform, when such were a per

secuted minority. He was the regenerator of Trinity ; he is connected

with every step forward that the University has made for years past.

"Yes. He was a very great man: and men here feel the awful

suddenness of it. He never was better or pleasanter than on the

Thursday, when I dined there, and he was asking me for my ' dear wife.'

His manner with women was always charming.  He was very kind to

Ime, and was very fond of him.

I" Whewell is dead !  spoke a few solemn words to the lads before

lecture, telling them what a mighty spirit had passed away, what he had

been to Cambridge and science, and how his example ought to show

them that they were in a place where nothing was required for the most

splendid success, but love of knowledge and indomitable energy. They

heard me with very deep attention. He is to be buried in the College
                      I am up to the eyes in work, sending round
....Chapel, Saturday

my Harvard address."

   The Harvard address alluded to here was on the subject of an
American Professorship, which had been proposed for Cam
bridge. The following letter to Sir Charles Lyell explains its

object :

                                                                                                                                          Q2

228 Charles Kingsley.

                                                                   BARTON HALL, February 18, 1866.

  I I" take the liberty of enclosing a broadsheet which have just issued
at Cambridge. It expresses, I am happy to say, the opinions of all the

most educated Cambridge men, on the subject of the proposed
American Lectureship, to be founded by a Mr. Yates Thompson, of

Liverpool, and supplied by the authorities of Harvard College, United
IfStates.
           any of your many American friends are interested in the

matter, you would perhaps kindly show them this broadsheet.

   " I have done myself the honour of signing the requisition to Govern

"Iment about Sir J. Hooker's collection of dried plants, &c.
         think, considering that governments (like the unjust judge) will

not take the trouble to do right, unless they are forced, that it would be
well to bring the press, e.g., the ' Times,' the ' Saturday Review,' the

'Athenaeum,' to bear upon public opinion ; or the whole matter may be
' burked ' unknown."

               THE AMERICAN LECTURESHIP.

" I trust that it will not be considered impertinent, if I, as Professor

of Modern History, address a few words on this matter to the Masters

of Art in this University.
" My own wish
is
     a
                   is

                            is,

                                  ;I a
                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                             it
                                                                                                         it
               that the proposal be accepted, as frankly as                                          has

been made.

   " Harvard University --an offshoot, practically, of our own University
-- body so distinguished, that any proposition coming from
deserves our most respectful consideration and an offer of this kind,

on their part, to be looked on as very graceful compliment.

   "The objections are obvious; but after looking them through fairly,

as they suggested themselves to me, must say that they are fully met
by Mr. Thompson's own conditions by the Vice-Chancellor's veto, and

by the clause empowering either University to put an end to the Lecture

ship when they like.

   " But they are best met by the character of Harvard University itself.

Its rulers, learned and high-minded gentlemen, painfully aware of our

general ignorance about them, and honourably anxious to prove them

selves (what they are) our equals in civilization, will take care to send us
the very best man whom they can find. And more than one person

suggests himself to my mind, whom they chose (as they would be very
I
       I

                     I

                                     if

                                                                 in
                                                                                                 in
likely to choose) should gladly welcome as my own instructor                                         the

history of his country.

"When did myself the honour of lecturing this University on the

History of the United States, became painfully aware how little was

known, and how little, then, could be known, on the subject. This

                              Ai1 American Lectureship.                               229

great want has been since supplied by a large addition to the University

Library of American literature. I think it most important that it should

be still further removed by the residence among us of an American

gentleman.

  If'- there should be, in any minds, the fear that this University

should be ' Americanized,' or ' democratized,' they should remember, that

this proposal comes from the representatives of that class in America,

which regards England with most love and respect ; which feels itself in

increasing danger of being swamped by the lower elements of a vast

democracy; which has, of late years, withdrawn more and more from

public life, in order to preserve its own purity and self-respect ; which

now holds out the right hand of fellowship to us, as to one of the most

conservative bodies in this country, because it feels itself a conservative

element in its own country, and looks to us for just recognition in that
character. It is morally impossible that such men should go out of their

way, to become propagandists of those very revolutionary principles,

aga"inAsnt dwhiifchthtehreey   are   honourably              struggling at home.  on  just now  to
                              be    (as there                  an attempt going
'
                                   '
                                             a

                                                          is)
Americanize England, on the part of certain Englishmen, no better

defence against such scheme can be devised, than to teach the

educated young men of England as much as possible about America
                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                               ;
to let them hear the truth from worthy American lips and judge for

themselves.
" But
'            deprecate the introducing into this question any notions

   aIdrawn from general American politics, or manners. We have no more

right to judge of Harvard by our notions of the                '                                or
                                                                        '             a if
the Black Republican pulpit, than Harvard would have to judge of
                                    '                                                 It  .'
                                          '                                                    ,'
Cambridge by Reynolds's Mysteries of London,' or
                                                                                                 it is
simply question between two dignified and learned bodies. Let
remain as such. There are as great differences of civilization, rank,

learning, opinions, manners, America, as in England andin                         ;   we are
not yet convinced of that fact, will be good for us thatit                            highly-

educated American              gentleman     should come hither and prove it.         that
   " Of the general           importance
                                             of the scheme, of the great necessity

our young men should know as much as possible                  of

Ifto be the greatest in the world, shall say little.
                                             I                 I       country destined
                                                                    a
                                                                     shall only ask--

in the second century before the Christian era the Romans had offered
to send a lecturer to Athens, that he might tell Greek gentlemen of

what manner of men this new Italian power was composed, what were

their laws and customs, their intentions, and their notion of their own
duty and destiny -- would Athens have been wise or foolish in accepting

the offer?

230 Charles Kingsley.

   " May I, in conclusion, allude to one argument, which would of

course have no weight with the University in a question of right and
wrong, but which may have weight in one, like the present, of ex

If Iped"iencywe? decline this offer,  fear that we shall give offence, not of

course to gentlemen like the rulers of Harvard, but to thousands who

care as little for Harvard as they do for our own Cambridge. A sensitive

people like the Americans, instinct with national feeling, among whom

news is spread far more rapidly than in England, will be but too likely
to take up our refusal as a national insult. The lower portion of the

American press will be but too likely to misrepresent and vilify our

motives ; and a fresh soreness between us and Americans may be caused

(by no real fault of our own) at the very time when we should be doing
all in our power to promote mutual good will and good understanding.

                                                           "C. KINGSi.EY."

"February>), 1866.

   The offer was finally rejected by vote of the Senate, to the
great regret of many leading men in the University.

   The death of Dr. Whewell, the appointment of Mr. Maurice
to the chair of Moral Philosophy, the discussion of the American

Professorship, and the happiness of having his eldest son an
undergraduate of Trinity, made this a year of no ordinary

interest, as far as Cambridge was concerned, to the Professor.
   His yearly residences at Cambridge gave him not only the

advantage of associating with scholars and men of mark in the
University, but of paying visits in the neighbourhood to houses

where good pictures and charming society refreshed and helped
him through the toil of his professional work -- to Wimpole, to
Ampthill Park, and other country houses, where he and his were
always made welcome. While staying at Ampthill he first saw
the pictures at Woburn Abbey and Haynes Park, which were of

deep interest to him, and in reference to this time Mr. George
Howard writes from Naworth Castle in 1 876 :

  I" Once went over the picture gallery at Woburn with him, it was a

great treat to me, as his talk over the historical portraits was delightful.

He then made a remark which has since seemed to me quite a key to
the criticism of historical portraits : ' That it was formerly the habit of

....portrait painters to flatter their sitters by making them as like the reign

ing king or queen as they could.'

Parish Penny Readings.  231

 ...." You know how much I felt his influence, and how much I

loved him. Of course his character and sayings influenced me on a

variety of subjects, but I feel that I am chiefly grateful for what he said
and felt on the subject of art. I am not talking of his opinions and

criticisms, interesting and individual as these always were. The thing

which, above all, was a help to me, was to find that such a man as your
husband cared so intensely for the things of beauty, and unlike the
majority of preachers and teachers, thought them neither objectionable

nor unworthy of pursuit. I think that I can almost date my appreciation

of Greek art to a, to me, very memorable visit to Eversley, when, among
other things, your husband showed me a book of Sir Wm. Hamilton's
Vases. In later years he has been to many painters' studios with me.
At A. Legros', a French painter and my master, he was delighted with
his pictures, and particularly with his masterly painting of the human

body, which he said was the thing which the English wanted.

   " Last week I was down at Cambridge, and as I passed your old
house on the Trumpington Road I thought of the happy times when I

had been there, to lectures, first with the Prince of Wales, and then to

Ispend evenings often ; how kind it was of him to treat a boy, as was,

as a friend and companion, but it was just that that was characteristic

of him, and made so many feel for him as I do."

   During his heavy parish work, which was done single-handed
the greater part of this year, he was more than ever struck by
the monotonous, colourless ofexistence the English labourer, varied

only by the yearly benefit-club day, and evenings at the public-
house. The absence of all pleasure from their lives weighed
heavily on his heart, more especially in the case of the poor

hard-worked wives and mothers who, if respectable, were ex

cluded from even the poor amusements of the men ; and for their
sake, as well as for his men and boys, he began a series of Penny

Readings, which now have become so common. It was character

istic of his chivalrous spirit that at the first meeting, when the

school-room was crowded with men and boys, he made an appeal
to them for their wives and mothers, dwelling on the life of toil

they led, and saying how anxious he should be to give them a

share in this amusement, which they so sorely needed. It was

therefore arranged that, while the men and boys paid their pennies,

the widows and poor overburdened mothers should have free

tickets.

232 Charles Kingsley.

    These meetings, in which his parishioners would kindly help
him, occurred once a fortnight, and though set on foot for the
poor, brought all classes pleasantly together during the autumn
and winter nights ; they had music (the best that could be got),
the best poetry, the most heroic stories. Sometimes he would
give simple lectures on health ; accounts of his own travels ; and
latterly extracts from his eldest son's letters from abroad, in which
stories expressly for the Penny Readings at home were not for
gotten. Village concerts, too, were given, got up by his daughter
and son, in which friends from London helped for his sake ; and
the sight of the well-lighted and decorated room to people who
saw nothing at home from one year's end to another but a
farthing dip candle, was a pleasure in itself ; the poor mothers
were gratified at seeing their sons in Sunday garments step up
on the platform to help in choruses and part songs, while the
young men gained in self-respect and refinement, by the share

they took in the preparation as well as the performance. " It

was to him most curious," he used to say, " to watch the effect of
music upon the poor people -- upon, alas ! seemingly unimpres
sionable drudges, in whom one would expect to find no ap
preciation for refined sound " ; but yet who would walk two
miles to the village school-room on a wet night and sit in rapt
attention the whole evening, "showing their approbation of good
music, not by noisy applause, but by a kindling face and eye
during the piece, and a low hum of approbation after, that
hinted at a deep musical under-current below that rugged exte
rior." Penny Readings are common now, but in his own imme
diate neighbourhood the Rector of Eversley took the lead in
inaugurating these pleasant gatherings.

   His literary work this year consisted in two lectures on Science
and Superstition* at the Royal Institution. He preached for the
first time in one of the Great Nave services at Westminster
Abbey,-f for the Bishop of London's Fund ; to the boys of Wel
lington College ; to the Queen at Clifden ; and his usual Chapel
Royal sermons. In the little congregation at Eversley for some
of the summer months, many distinguished men might be

       * Since republished in " Health and Education."
       t These sermons have since appeared in a volume, "The Water of Life."

Strange Testimonies.                                    233

numbered ; among them were Sir George Hamilton Seymour
and General Sir Wm. Codrington.

The correspondence was, as usual, of a varied and singular

character. One day there came a long letter from a London news

paper reporter, who, in return for some kindly, cheering words,
revealed the inner life of Bohemia with wonderful vividness, and

ended, " I have written you a very long and tedious letter, Mr.
Kingsley, and were I writing to an ordinary man, I should be

mad to address him at this length and in this vein. But you

understand things, and I am almost certain that you will under

....stand me and my long-windedness. Thank you again. Think

gently of Bohemia and its free Lances."
   Another, from Brighton, thanking him for " Alton Locke,"

signed " A Chartist and Cabman."

   Again, from a man who had lived abroad, and only signed
himself " One who can never forget you," who had accidentally

read " Alton Locke " " in a time of overwhelming misery "--
"You were the means of saving me from ruin and destruction, to
which I was fast drifting."

   From South Australia, 1867, a barrister writes, thanking him
for his " Sermons for the Times," " Pentateuch," and " Good

News," telling him how they were read frequently by the special

magistrate, by his brother barrister, and by himself, in remote

places, where they have "no Church clergymen, and the Bishop
                                                        I could not," he says,
appoints laymen to read sermons.
" write as a stranger to a man who has so honestly spoken to

....me of my life and its duties, presented for the first time in the

light in which you pourtray them."
The Rev. W. Impey, general superintendent of Wesleyan

missions at Graham's Town, South Africa, after thanking him on
his own behalf for spiritual help, adds :--

" I am only saying what thousands elsewhere could reiterate -- but it

may be some gratification to you to know that in the far off corners of

the world, in the regions of heathen darkness, and of the very shadow

of death, and to men whose lot has been cast on the very verge, or be

yond of civilized life, your books have, under God's blessing, conveyed
it,

        I

                                                     a
light and peace and comfort."                           newspaper compositor, from Leeds,
    " The debt owe you," writes

234 Charles Kingsley.

" of which you know nothing, is this, that under God's blessing you have

been the means of preventing me from becoming perhaps one of the

dregs and scum of idle scoundrelism, and of raising me to a position from
Iwhich can estimate, faintly it may be, what is due from man to his own
                                                Before I read 'Alton
....manhood, and to his fellow man and to God.

Locke ' I was idle and dissolute."

   Letters came from China, from the heart of Africa, from the
other side of the Rocky Mountains -- all telling the same tale.

   One or two found their way to " Charles Kingsley, England,"
many were without any signature -- simple outpourings of loving
hearts, neither written from egotism or from the desire of getting

an autograph in return. One, also anonymous, dated Glasgow,

May II, 1867, is so touching in itself and so significant of Mr.

Kingsley's daily acts of mercy unknown to all but himself and

those who received them, that it must be given entire:

" Charles Kingsley,
           " My dear friend, permit me to engage your kind attention for
a little.
           I often remember you and ' the kindness of God,' which you

showed towards me some years ago. You found me in the way near

Hartly Row, a poor, homeless, friendless, penniless stranger. God sent

you as an angel of mercy to me, a very unworthy creature. You were,

Iindeed, like the good Samaritan to me. You took me to the Lamb

Inn, and there, for your sake, was very hospitably cared for. On the

Iwalls of a room in that inn wrote a prayer, which came from the very

depths of my heart. It was for you, that the Father of the fatherless

would make you most glad with His countenance for ever. That prayer
I have often breathed since then.
I" was not aware, till afterwards, that you were the author of so many
Ibooks, and a person of so great note.
                                        rejoice in your honourable

fame."

   These letters, and many a strange communication that he

received, not only cheered him in his work, but gave him fresh
knowledge of human nature in all its varied aspects that few
men have, and deepened his own humanity. He little thought

they were treasured up, to give others some small insight into his
great work, by one who feels it is no treachery to disclose them
now, or to mention what he never alluded to in his lifetime !

                                               Governor Eyre.                              235

                                               TO MR. T. DIXON.

                                                                  Eversley, October 27, 1866.

" The volumes of Bewick are come, and may I beg you to give to the

IMis"s  Bewicks the enclosed letter of thanks.                                 the genius  which

        am delighted with the new vignettes --all showing

shines from every touch of the truly great man's hand. Of course, as

the happy possessor of a Newcastle copy of 1809, in which my father

literally brought me up, I prefer the old, untouched plates, for softness,

richness, and clearness. But we cannot expect everything to last ; and

the volumes which have been sent to me are very valuable as memorials

of Bewick, as well as proofs of the kindness of people whom I know

not, yet respect.                              the end of your   letter, in which  you are

   " I do not quite understand

kind enough to compliment me for following Carlyle's advice about one

' sadly tried.' I have followed the sage of Chelsea's teaching, about my
noble friend, ex-Governor Eyre of Jamaica. I have been cursed for

as had been dog, who had never stood up for the working man
1                                                                              'a

  iIf                                                                                           I it,

                               a
when all the world was hounding him (the working man) down in
  848-9, and imperilled my own prospects in life in behalf of freedom and

justice. Now, men insult me because stand up for man whom
Ifbelieve ill-used, calumniated, and hunted to death by fanatics.I'
                                                                                           you
                                                     I
mean Mr. Eyre in what you say, you indeed will give me pleasure,

because shall see that one more man of the people has common
        I

                :

                   if

                                a

                        I
sense to appreciate brave and good man, doing his best under terrible
difficulties but not, know that am right."

                                  TO THE MISSES BEWICK.

" MY DEAR LADIES,
         " received with great pleasure the present of your father's
I
           I

                       it
                           is
                                  a
                                            a
works in two volumes. The old edition of 1804 fresher and richer
in the printing of the wood-cuts, but this very interesting to me and
                                                        is
                                                                      is

to my children, as containing so many new vignettes which the old
edition wants, and which all show the genius which always accompanied

his hand.                         great boon from God to have had great father. And
                                                        '
   " Ladies,
                                                                I
                                                                            a
had no idea what noble specimen of an Englishman he was, till

you did me the honour of sending me his Life.' The wisdom, justice,
moderation, and energy of his character impressed me with moral
                                                                                   a

reverence for him, even greater than that which already felt for his

236 Charles Kingsley.

artistic honour. Happy are the daughters who have sprung from such a
man, and who will meet him again in heaven.

                  I" am, my dear Ladies,

                                            " Your obliged Servant,

                                                          " Charles Kingsley."

                              to the same.
                                                                                                      April, 1867.

   " Mrs. Kingsley and I have to thank you very much for your most

valuable present of your father's handwriting, and the sketch accompany

ing it. I shall treasure them and pass them on as heirlooms to my

eldest son, who has been brought up on your father's books, and is going

out some day as a naturalist and a settler.

   " But, my dear madam, you must not speak of my approving your
father's labours, you must speak of me as one who has been your father's

loving, reverent pupil, as was my father before me.

   " When your father's book of birds first came out, my father, then a
young hunting squire, in the New Forest, Hampshire, saw the book in
London, and bought at once the beautiful old copy which has been the
text-book of my boyhood. He, a sportsman and field naturalist, loved

it and carried it with him up and down in days when no scientific
knowledge could be had, from 1805-1820, and when he was laughed at
in the New Forest for having bought a book about ' dicky birdies,' till
his fellow squires borrowing his copy, agreed that it was the most clever

book they had ever seen, and a revelation to them, who had had these

phenomena under their eyes all their lives and never noticed them.
    " That my father should have introduced into the south of England,

first, your father's book, and have known his great pupil, Yarrell, in

person, is to me a great pleasure. Yarrell and my father were friends

from youth till death, and if my father had been alive now he would have
joined me in respect and affection for the daughters of the great and wise

Bewick."

                         TO MR. T. DIXON.

                         (Of Sunderland.)

                                                         Eversley, November 20, 1866.

If" you knew the continual labour in which I live, you would forgive

my"oYmoiuttringlettteor  answer a letter   at once.      I felt pleased and proud to
                          did interest me   and deeply.

find a man, and evidently more than one in that small circle of yours,

who had the true ambition. Not the mere political ambition, laudable

as well as lawful in a free Englishman, but which he can share with

scamps, and spouters, and self-seekers ; but the true ambition which cries

                in Cornwall.                              237

after wisdom rather than riches, and knows what Solomon meant when

he spoke of her in his proverbs : the ambition to know what is beautiful,
good, and true, that he may go and do likewise. Ah ! that more men

in all ranks would choose the part which you and your lost friend have
chosen. Then they would look on the inequalities -- 1 do not mean the
injustices -- but the necessary inequalities of position in this world as

slight matters, while they toiled after the divine equality of virtue and

wisdom which is open to all men in a free land, and try to take their
Iplace among ' the aristocracy of God.'
                                         will send you a sermon which
I preached about that lately. Meanwhile, your record of your sight of
Iour dear and lost Prince Consort has touched me deeply.
                                                          shall not

betray your confidence by showing it to certain persons who loved and
Ihonoured him, even as did. As for the uselessness of the monument
Iin Hyde Park, though, I do not agree.
                                         think it is good to have in a

land great beacons of that kind, which attract the attention, and impress

the imagination of the most brutal and careless. This ought to be done,

and not to leave the other undone."

                TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                         EVERSLKY, January II, 1866.

  I" feel deeply much of what you say, especially about modern good

works. But many men among the clergy will tell people that common

virtues, and duties, and sympathies, and instincts, are not of the Spirit
of God, who confines Himself and His operations to the sensations of

Idevotees, and if any one says (as I do without ceasing) the contrary, as

   find it written in the Bible, he is called a Pantheist, and a Rationalist,

and a Muscular Christian. So what is to be done, but hammer on at
the Old Testament (as I do), and try to make people understand that,
Ifas the only hope of making them understand the New ?
                                                          one does
Inot succeed, certainly see great fear of that practical atheism which

you dread.                                            this spring, when  I

 ...." I hope to have a heavy shot at this falsehood

preach for the Bishop of London's Fund."

TO PROFESSOR MAX MULLER.

" DEAREST MAN,                           EVERSLEY, November 16, 1866.

" Story, bless you, I have none to tell you, save that in Corn

wall these same old stories, of Jews' tin and Jews' houses, got from the

miners, filled my young brains with unhistoric nonsense, like Mara-zion,

238 diaries Kingsley.

Ithe bitterness of Zion ; which town the old folk, can't tell why, call

Market Jew still.
   " That the Jews came to Cornwall as slaves after the destruction of

Jerusalem is possible and probable enough, but I know of no evidence.

That the old smelting works, and the tin found in them was imme-

morially called Jews' tin and Jews' houses is well known ; also that they
are of an awful antiquity. Market Jew, as a town, is a name you must
explain. That is all. I put it in ' Yeast,' into the mouth of a Cornish
Iex-miner. But am glad you are taking the matter up, and working
ICarew, Polwhele, and Borlase.
                                         should expect you to find the root

of the myths in that fruitful mother          of wind eggs, the  sixteenth   century.
   " It is a delight to hear from you.           Only you don't  tell me     how our
                I long to see her and the babes.
lovely G. is.                                                    for Germany,  and
   " My dear   Max, what great things have happened
Iwhat great men your Prussians have shown themselves. Much as was
wroth with them about Schleswig-Holstein, I can only see in this last

campaign a great necessary move for the physical safety of every North

German household, and the honour of every North German woman.

To allow the possibility of a second 1807-1812 to remain, when it could

be averted by any amount of fighting, were sin and shame, and had I
been a Prussian I would have gone down to Sadowa as a sacred duty

to wife and child and fatherland.

  " I am reading much German now, and shall need to ask you ques

tions, specially about the reaction from 1815-1820, and the alleged

treachery of the princes in not granting constitutions.

  " Meanwhile, tell me if Gervinus, whom I am studying on that matter,

is worthy of credit, and recommend me a good author, specially one who

....has thought before he wrote, and not, like Gervinus, thought in writing,

to the perplexing of himself and reader."

                                                   EVERSLEY, April 19, 1867.

" Your article on ' Are there Jews in Cornwall ? ' is very clear and
satisfactory to me. What you say about metamorphic language is most

true (even in my little experience) and worthy of fuller development,
                        done it elsewhere.
unl"esYsoyuoudohanvoet  mention 'Jews' tin.'  This is lumps of smelted tin (if I

recollect right) with a coating of hydrated oxide of tin, which is caused

by lying in water and bog. Jews' tin is found inside Jews' houses, or in
the diluvium of old stream-works.

   " May this not be merely, according to your etymology, ' house tin,'

tin  found     in       the  houses ?
Ah   ! that             had  legs as an
Ithe"                                    antelope  and time as a butterfly,  I would

The Great Meteor Night.                                        239

take you to lonely places and show you old ruined houses, and pit

workings, and stream workings, and cromlechs, and stone circles, and

real British villages, made thus (here was a sketch). The old kraal of
flat granite slabs, and inside it the circular huts of ditto, about ten

feet diameter, the stones leaning inward, probably thatched with

heather, which now, by decomposing into peat soil, has buried the

whole half-way up, and bridges of single granite blocks, polished by
the feet of ages. And our ' portion should be among the smooth
stones of the brook,' and we would pour out to them ' our drink offering '

as we talked over old nature-worship, and lost ourselves and our toil

in the abysses of the ages.     Best love to dearest G. and the children."
   " But that will not be yet.

   The great meteor shower of November, 1 866, was naturally of
intense and, as he said himself, awful interest to him. In
trembling excitement he paced up and down the church-yard,
where he had a greater sweep of horizon than elsewhere, long

before the time arrived, and when the shower began called his

wife and children out of their beds to watch with him. He

preached upon the great spectacle in his own church and at the

Chapel Royal.

TO PROFESSOR ADAMS.

                                           EVERSLEY, November 14, 1866.

   "The Jinns* (according to the  Mussulman     theory of meteors) must

have had a warm time of it about  i A.M. this  morning, and the Eastern

peoples (if the star shower was visible to them) must be congratulating

themselves that (unless the angels are very bad shots) there is a very fair
chance of the devil being killed at last.
I I" What saw may at least amuse you.
                                           presume any local observa

tions have value, however small.

  " I saw the first meteor about 11.50, i.e., as soon as the head of Leo

rose above our rather high horizon. From that time the star rain

increased till about i A.M., and diminished till about 2.30, when very
I Ifew passed. They went on, am told, till 5.30 this morning.
                                                               saw no

increase or diminution in the size of the meteors from beginning to end.

   * The Jinns or second order of spirits are supposed by the Mussulman to be many
of them killed by shooting stars, hurled at them from heaven ; wherefore, the Arabs,
when they see a shooting star, often exclaim, "May God transfix the enemy of the
faith ! "--Notes to Lane's "Thousand and One Nights."

240 Charles Kingsley.

Some of them were larger and more brilliant than common shooting stars,

but not many. The most brilliant appeared of a reddish colour, their

tails green and bluish. They all proceeded from the one point in Leo,
Ionly one other star (as far as
Ifrom the zenith to the north.        saw) fell at right angles to their course,
                                        was struck by the fact that they all

proceeded in quasi-straight lines without any of that wavering and

uncertainty of direction so common in meteors. Any large number

became visible only about the zenith, or in falling towards the western

horizon.                                                      was the point
                                                              appeared and
   " But the most striking (and to me) awful phenomenon
of departure in Leo, where, again and again, meteors

hung for a moment, their tail so much foreshortened as to be wholly or

almost wholly unseen. These must have been coming straight at us.

Surely some may have struck our planet ?

   "The seeming generation of these magnificent objects out of a point
of nonentity and void, was to me the most beautiful and striking sky
phenomenon which I ever witnessed. Yet the actual facts of their course
are far more wonderful and awful than even that appearance. I tried to
picture to myself the thought and feelings of a mediaeval observer, how

ever rational or cool-headed he might have been, in presence of that star

shower ; and when I thought of the terror with which he had a right to

regard and the fantastic explanation which he had right to put upon
iIt,                                  '
             it,                                           a
        thanked you astronomers for having delivered us by science from
I
one more object of dread.'
   " ought to say that there was here (in North Hants) no sign of an

Aurora Borealis, which said to have accompanied the star shower in
                       a
certain cases.            islecture one might  have given     (illustrated   by
                                                of parallel   lines and     the
   " By-the-bye, what

nature's own diagrams) on the perspective

meaning of vanishing point."
                  a

   In his sermon at the Chapel Royal, after speaking of the
seemingly pitiless laws of Nature, "as we miscall them," he
bursts forth: --

   " Horrible, say, and increasingly horrible, not merely to the senti
mentalist, but to the man of sound reason and of sound conscience,
is

          I
must the scientific aspect of nature become,   ; if   mere abstraction called
                                                  if a-- to quote the famous
law to be the sole ruler of the universe
words of the German sage --
                              '       instead of the Divine Eye, there must

                                 If,

glare on us an empty, black, bottomless eye socket and the stars and;'

the galaxies of heaven, in spite of all their present seeming regularity,

                    Science and a Living God.                                241

are but an ' everlasting storm which no man guides.' It was but a few

days ago that we, and this little planet on which we live, caught a

Istrange and startling glimpse of that everlasting storm which -- shall

say it ?--no one guides. We were swept helpless, astronomers tell us,

through a cloud of fiery stones, to which all the cunning bolts which
man invents to slay his fellow-man, are but slow and weak engines of

destruction. We were free from the superstitious terror with which that

meteor-shower would have been regarded in old times. We could

comfort ourselves with the fact that heaven's artillery was not known as

yet to have killed anyone ; and with the scientific explanation that most

of the bolts were small enough to be melted and dissipated by their rush

thr"ouBguht  our  atmosphere.  occur     to none of us, how morally ghastly, in
             did  the thought

spite of all its physical beauty, was that grand sight, unless we were

sure that behind it all there was a Living God ? That He had appointed

the path, and the time, and the destiny, and the use of every atom of
that matter of which science could only tell us that it was rushing

wit"hoIunt   a purpose, for ever through   the homeless void   God,  but  whether
            one word, the question is not  whether there be a

there be a Living God, who is in any true and practical sense Master

over the universe over which He presides ; a King who is actually ruling

His   kingdom,    or an epicurean deity who lets his kingdom    rule itself.
   "  Is there a  Living God in the universe, or is there none  ? That is the

....greatest of all questions. Has our Lord Jesus Christ answered            it,or

has He not?"*                                                                  II

                  TO PROFESSOR LORIMER OF EDINBURGH.

                                                 EVERSLEY, December 17, 1866.

   " received some months since (and hope duly acknowledged) your
book on The Constitutionalism of the Future.'

   " laid by for study, when should have time to do justice.
II                                    I                        is
          '                                   I
                                                                  ; it
           it

now write to express my great pleasure, both in the matter and the

manner of    it.  The views which you put forth are just those to which

have been led by twenty years of thought and observation its manner,

wish could copy. In clearness and method are not merely orna
I                              it,
       I                              a

mented, but strengthened by vein of humour, which a sure sign of

mastery of the subject, and of that faculty which no education can give,

called genius. wish that in the writings of our mutual friend, Mr. Mill,
I
                 I
could see some touch of that same humour.        I  wish that there was

          * " The Meteor Shower," " Water of Life and other Sermons."     R

      VOL. II.

242 Charles Kingsley.

any chance of your wise advice being adopted ; but Mr.              's party have

let loose that spirit of envy, which is the counterfeit of your righteous

idea of equality relative, and tempts men to demand that impossible

equality absolute, which must end in making the money lenders the only

privileged class. To men possessed by envy, your truly scientific, as

well as truly religious method, of looking for the facts of God's world,
and trying to represent them in laws, will be the plot of a concealed

aristocrat. I fear, too, that Mr. Mill and those who follow him most

closely, will hardly support your method, and for the same reason, Mr.

Mill (of whom I speak with real reverence) seems to me to look on

man too much as the creature of circumstances. This it which makes
                                                     iIf
                                                                      is,
                                                                                       it
                                                                                           is
him disparage, not totally deny, the congenital differences of character
             if it if

                  it
                       is

                                      in
in individuals, and still more races. He has,           mistake not, openly

denounced the doctrine of difference and superiority in race. And

this mistake (as seems to me) which has led him and others into that
theory that the suffrage ought to be educational and formative, which you

have so ably combated.
" Of course
                        assumed that all men are born into the world

equals, and that their inequality, in intellect or morals,      is  chargeable
                                                                         a
entirely to circumstance, that inequality must be regarded as wrong

done by society to the less favoured. Society therefore has no right to

punish them by withholding the suffrage, for an inferiority which she

herself has created she bound to treat them as they were actually
             ;                                       if
                     ;                                      if
what they would have been but for her, and they misuse their rights,
                       it, I is                      1
she must pay the penalty of her previous neglect and cruelty. This
seems to me to be the revolutionary doctrine of 793 -- 1848, which cona

vulsed Europe and from its logic and morality there no escape asis

long as human beings are asserted to be congenitally equal, and circum

stances the only cause of subsequent inequality.        I  have some right to

speak on this subject, as held that doctrine strongly myself in past

years, and was cured of in spite of its seeming justice and charity, by
the harsh school of facts. Nearly quarter of century spent in edu
                                                     a

cating my parishioners, and experience with my own and other's children,
in fact, that schooling of facts brought home to the heart -- which Mr.

Mill has never had-- have taught me that there are congenital differences

and hereditary tendencies which defy all education from circumstances,

whether for good or evil. Society may pity those who are born fools or

knaves, but she cannot, for her own sake, allow them power she can
      it.

                                     I

                                                                          it
                                                                                      is

                                                                              if

                                                                                                             is
help  And therefore in the case of the suffrage, she must demand

some practical guarantee that the man on whom                   bestowed                                         not

dangerously knavish or foolish.           have seen, also, that the differences

of race are so great, that certain races, e.g., the Irish Celts, seem quite

                  Value of a House of Lords.                                                                      243

unfit for self-government, and almost for the self-administration of justice

involved in trial by jury, because they regard freedom and law, not as

means for preserving what is just and right, but merely as weapons to be

used for their own private interests and passions. They take the letter of

freedom which killeth, without any conception of its spirit which giveth

life. Nay, I go further, and fear much that no Roman Catholic country will

ever be fit for free constitutional government, and for this simple reason,

De Tocqueville and his school (of whom I speak with great respect) say

that the cause of failure of free institutions in the Romance countries has

been, the absence of the primary training in municipal self-government.

That I doubt not. But what has been the cause of that want?--the

previous want of training in self-government of the individual himself.

And as long as the system of education for all classes in the Romance

countries is one of tutelage and espionage (proceeding from the priestly

notions concerning sin), so long will neither rich nor poor have any

power of self-government. Any one who knows the difference between

a French lycce and an English public school ought to see what I mean,

and see one main cause of the failure of all attempts at self-government

in France. May I without boring you (at least you are not bound to

read this long letter) go on to another subject, which seems to me just

now of great importance ? I think the giving intellect and civilization

its due weight, by means of plurality of votes, as you so well advise,

practically hopeless just now. But is there no body or influence in the
Istate which may secure them their due weight nevertheless ?
                                                                                                                  think

that there namely, the House of Lords. You seem (and herein alone
   in
           is,
I  differ from you) to regard as the majority do, the Peers, as standing

alone the state, and representing only themselves.  on the contrary,
                                                    I,

                                                                       I
look at them as representing every silver fork in Great Britain. What

mean this, person or body may be truly representative without being
   is
               a

elected by those whom they represent. You will of course allow this.

Now the House of Lords seems to me to represent all heritable property,
real or personal, and also all heritable products of moral civilization,

such as hereditary independence, chivalry, &c. They represent, in one

word, the hereditary principle. This, no House of Commons, no elective

body, can represent. It can only represent the temporary wants and

opinions of the many, and that portion of their capital which tempo
                  in
                                         a

                                    It

                                                                           in
                                                                                                              is
rarily invested trade, &c.  cannot represent the hereditary instinct
Ifwhich binds man and the state to the past and future generations.

you watch the current of American feeling and society you will see full

proof of this. If the family bond should break up there, soon the bond

will break up which makes nation responsible  honour for the deeds

of its ancestors, and therefore regardful of the obligation of international

244 Charles Kingsley.

treaties. Now a body is required which represents the past and the

future, and all material or spiritual which has been inherited from the

past or bequeathed to the future. And this body must itself be an
hereditary one. Some may answer, ' Just as much as, Who drives fat
oxen must himself be fat.' But it seems to me,

   " 1. That such a body must be non-elected, to keep it safe from the
changes of temporary popular opinion. An elective upper chamber
is a monster which is certain to become a den of demagogues and

mo"ne2y. -lTehndaetrsi.t must be hereditary, because it is impossible for men to

represent that which they are not themselves. The Peers are the incarna

tion of the hereditary principle. I look on them therefore as what they are

in fact, not a caste, not even a class, but a certain number of specimens of

a class chosen out by the accident (and a very fair choice, because it
Iprevents quarrels and popular intrigues) of being eldest sons.  look on

them as the representatives, not only of every younger brother, &c, of

their own kin, and of every family which has ever intermarried, or hopes

to intermarry with them (though that would include the great majority

of well-educated Britons), but as the representatives of every man who

has saved up enough to buy a silver fork, a picture, a Yankee clock,

or anything, in fact, which he wishes to hand to his children. I hold
that while Mr. Bright may, if he likes, claim to be represented merely

by the House of Commons, his plate and house is represented by the

House of Lords, and that if the House of Lords were abolished, Mr.

Bright's children would discover that fact by the introduction of laws

which would injure the value of all heritable property, would tax (under
the name of luxuries) the products of art and civilization, would try to
drive capital into those trades which afforded most employment for

^//-skilled labour, and supplied most the temporary necessities of the

back and belly, and would tend to tax the rich for the sake of the poor,

with very ugly results to civilization.  But I answer, this is already
   " This picture may seem overdrawn.

the tendency in the United States. The next fifty years will prove

whether that tendency can be conquered or not in a pure democracy,

such as they have now for the first time become, since they have exter

minated their southern hereditary aristocracy, and their northern here

ditary aristocracy, the Puritan gentlemen of old families have retired in

disgust from public life. May I ask you to think over this view of the
House of Lords. And may I ask you how far you think, if it be correct,

it can be wisely pressed upon all classes, and specially upon the titled

persons (there is no titled class in these realms) themselves ?

    "Pray excuse the length of this letter. But your book awoke such

             The Schoolmaster and the Parent.                               245

an interest in me-- a solitary country thinker-- that I could not resist

the temptation of pouring out to you some of the results of my years of

practical observation of, and pondering on, facts."

                      TO HIS WIFE.

                                                                                            Cambridge, 1867.

   " . . . . Delightful evening last night ; dined at Paget's, and then

gave a lecture (from more notes than I could use) on the Norman

Conquest, to the Albert Institute -- an admirable thing got up by High

Church bachelors and undergraduates for getting hold of shopmen and

middle-class lads. That class abounded in the room, and were much

delighted, as far as appearances could go, with what I told them of the

Conquest and the doughty deeds, and grand old Norse blood of their

own ancestors. I thoroughly enjoyed myself. Spoke for one hour and a

qua"rtMery,  and had  notes enough   to speak two.              about  the  changes
             morning  lecture was a
                                     very difficult one -- all
in Europe at the Congress of Vienna. But Mr. Maurice said I made it

all clear, and highly approved of the moral. M. is developing fast.
He has just asked me for a copying pass to the Fitzwilliam, where he
wants to draw the statues. He has just been regretting that he has read

so little, and is craving after natural history, and for the first time in his
life, he says, after Art. Ah ! what a blessing to see him developing

under one's eyes, and to be able to help him at last by teaching him

something one's self ! It is quite right that the schoolmasters should have

the grounding and disciplining, but the father who can finish his boy's
education, and teach him something of life besides, ought to be very
                      I am well, and as busy as a bee to day, not an hour
....thankful

unemployed."

   In the spring      of 1867 he undertook the editorship of " Fraser's
Magazine " for        a few months for Mr. Froude, who had to go to

Spain to study the archives of Simancas for his history, and he

seized upon this opportunity to get a few papers on science into

its pages, and wrote to his friends Professor Newton, Sir Charles

Bunbury, and others, begging for help, to which they kindly
responded -- Professor Newton writing on the Birds of Norfolk ;

Sir Charles on the Flora of South America ; he himself con

tributing one of his most lovely idylls, " A Charm of Birds."

246 Charles Kingsley.

            TO PROFESSOR NEWTON.               April.

     I" write begging you for an article in ' Fraser's Magazine,' of which I
Iam pro tern, editor.
                       want to make it gradually a vehicle for advanced

natural science, and have written to several leading men in that sense.
     ...." Could you give me anything, however short -- Spitzbergen above
all ?       Do pray help me, and, if you are good enough, make John

Clark, or any of your friends, help me also, and we will try and get a

little real natural science into folks' heads

  I" You must tell me instantly where can get most information about
our birds of passage. Especially I want to know why the three phyllop-

neustes build dome-shaped nests ? With what other birds are they
embryologically connected ? Also, is the hyppolais a warbler embryo-

logically, or is he a yellow finch connected with serins and canaries, who

Ihas taken to singing ? Can you tell me where can find any Darwinite

lore about the development of birds ? Can you tell me anything about

anything ? For, as you won't write me an article for this month, I must
write one myself, whether I know about it or not, or be covered with
Ishame and contempt, for have promised Longman that we would

have a Natural History article."

                                               Eversley, May 16, 1867.

  I" Your bird-books are delightful. Gladly would give up history, to

think of nothing but dicky-birds --but it must not be yet.

  I I" Some day, ere grow too old to think, trust to be able to throw

away all pursuits save natural history, and die with my mind full of God's
                                  I have scribbled off an article on
facts, instead of men's lies
the song of birds, and finished -- according to your hint-- on bird murder,
bringing in the sea-bird question. Also, I took the liberty of sending

the bird murder part of your letter to Mark Lemon, begging him to pitch
into the fellows in ' Punch.' That is the place, for they are sure to see

and be laughed at by their compeers.
" have got two pair of wood-wrens in the parish, one on my own
it,

  I
         I
'mount.'    never observed them before. They are mysterious, un
....happy, scrofulous little beauties, and cry like sick children."

                         TO REV. LLEWELLYN DAVIES.J.

                                                                                EVERSLEY, May 23, 1867.II

   " will surely be with you, please God, on Sunday morning

am writing a sermon on the Wheat and the Tares, entreating general

                         Words and Places.            247

toleration of all parties, and bringing it to bear on the Bishop of
London's Fund question. I presume that you will not object to this
                           but if you do, let me know, and I will try
line of preaching
I Isomething else. The older grow, the more tolerant get, and believe

that Wisdom is justified of all her children, and poor dear old Folly of

some of hers likewise."

                         TO REV. ISAAC TAYLOR.

                           (Rector of Settrington. )

                           Cambridge, February 15, 1867.

" I have been recommending strongly to my students your admirable
' Words and Places,' as a book which every educated Englishman should
Iknow.
        hope some day to have the honour of making your acquaint
Iance, and telling you in person all that think of the book.
  I" I have, in my own copy, marked many derivations, about which
Ishould like to consult you further. May mention one of them now ?
In page 360 you derive the curious group of names like ' Ewshot '

almost confined, I think, to my own Aldershot country, from 'holt' as a
I Isuffix.
        cannot say that am satisfied with this, though I believe all

authority is on your side. But the S in shot, recurring in all cases,
seems to point to a root beginning in sh ; ' shaw,' for a copse, is a com

mon word still in that district ; but it wants the final t, as distinctive as

the initial s.
   " Meanwhile the hundred is called Hold-shot ; the first half of the

word evidently being holt, and holt-holt would thus be a mere reduplica

tion. The hundred is called in Domesday Hold-sete ; and I have

guessed that sete, a settlement, may be the original root. Hold-shot,

now a moated farm, belonging to Lord Eversley, is evidently a spot of

vast antiquity, and buried in great woods. Its antiquity is sufficiently

shown by the fact that so obscure a farm gave the Norman name to the

hundred.

  I" trust that you, with your genius for accurate research, will not

consider this letter as an impertinence. Should anything bring you to
North Hants, it would delight me to receive you as my guest, and to

show you notable places."

        TO CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ., F.L.S., F.G.S.

                                                      EVERSLEY, June 6, 1867.

I I" am very anxious to obtain a copy of a pamphlet, which  un

fortunately lost. It came out shortly after your ' Origin of Species,' and
was entitled ' Reasons for believing in Mr. Darwin's Theory '-- or some

248 Charies Kingsley.

such words. It contained a list of phenomenal puzzles, forty or more,
Ifwhich were explicable by you and not otherwise.
                                                                                                        you can recollect

it, and tell me where can get copy, shall be very glad, as may
                       It          a                   I                                                    '
  I                                         a
spe"cialalydviwseantyou   is ityour defence.                 it            in the                                    I
                             a into look at wonderful
                                                                                                                                        '
                                I                      article                                              North British

about you.                 pity the man who wrote had not studied zoology

and   botany, before writing       about them.         fair               and                           manly,  although   he
      The Duke of Argyll's         book very
   "                                          is

cannot agree with you. What he says about the humming birds                                                            is  his

weakest part. He utterly overlooks sexual selection by the females,

as one great branch of natural selection. Why on earth are the males

only (to use his teleological view) ornamented, save for the amusement
of the females first       In his earnestness to press the point (which think
                           a                                                                                    I
                                ?                                                                                      I

                                            in
                                                             in

                                                                      in
you have really overlooked too much), that beauty in animals and plants

is  intended for the aesthetic education and pleasure of man, and (as

believe in my old-fashioned way), for the pleasure of God who rejoices
                                                                                                        Ia
in His works as painter            his picture -- his hurry, say, to urge this

truth, he has overlooked that beauty any animal must surely first please

the animals of that species, and that beauty in males alone                                                     is     broad
                                                                                                                    a

hint that the females are meant to be charmed thereby -- and once allow

that any striking new colour would attract any single female, you have

an "oApletonginegthefor,r  endless variation  British  pleases me, for the writer
                            even the North
                           ;
                                      '

                                                     a

                                                                             '

                                                                     if

                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                is
forced to allow some natural selection, and forced to allow some great

duration of the earth and so every one who fights you                                                           forced to

allow some of your arguments, as tub to the whale, only he may be

allowed to deny others, while very few have the honesty to confess

that they know nothing about the matter, save what you have put into

their heads.

   " Remark that the argument of the North British,' that geological
                                                  '

                                                      if
changes were more violent, and the physical energies of the earth more
intense in old times, cuts both ways. For that be true, then changes
of circumstance in plants and animals must have been more rapid, and

the inclination to vary from outward circumstance greater and also,                                                        if
                                                                                                            ;

the physical energies of the earth were greater, so must the physical

energies of the animals and plants and, therefore, their tendency to
                                   ;
                                                     ;

                                                                        a
sport may have been greater and not without gleam of scientific in

....sight have the legends of so many races talked of giants and monsters

on the earth of old."
                                                                  EVERSLEY, July 12, 1867.

   " flee to you, as usual, in ignorance and wonder. Have you
    I

                                                                                                     ?

                                                       I
investigated the migration of the eye in flat-fish                                                      have been reading

             The Flat Fish and Darwinism.                         249

a paper on it by Professor Thompson in ' Natural History Magazine ' for
IMay, 1865.
             took to your methods for explaining how the miracle

takes place ; whether the eye passes through the skull, or round the soft

parts, is a minor question. Will you kindly do me the honour to look

at two lectures of mine on ' Science and Superstition,' given at the Royal
IInstitution, and reprinted
think you will find that I
                           in Eraser's Magazine for  June and     July ?
                          am not unmindful of your   teaching.
                                                                   I heard

with extreme pleasure that your health is much improved."

                                        TRINITY LODGE, CAMBRIDGE, December 15, 1867.

I" have been here three or four days, and have been accidentally

drawn, again and again, into what the world calls Darwinism, and you
Iand I and some others, fact and science.
                                                have been drawn thereinto,
Isimply because find every one talking about it to any one who is

Isupposed to know (or mis-know) anything about it; all showing how
men's minds are stirred.        find the best and strongest men coming

ove"r.1. Because, being really great men, they know so much already

which they cannot co-ordinate with your theories (at least as yet), and
Isay (as they have a right), ' will stand by what I do know from mathe
Imatics, before I give in to what don't know from
                                                                  .' That

last dash is the key of the position. They don't know. The men have
been asking me questions, e. g., ' You don't say that there are links
Ifbetween a cat and a dog ?     so, what are they ? ' To which I have

been forced to answer-- my dear fellow, you must read and find out for
Iyourself.  am not bound to answer such a question as that. I am not

bound to teach you the alphabet, while you are solemnly disputing about

my translation of the language.                                   If
   " That is what it comes to, my dear and honoured master.

men don't agree with you, it is because they don't know facts : and

Iwhat do is simply to say to every one, as I have been doing for

three days past, ' Will you kindly ascertain what facts there are to be

Iknown or disproved, before you talk on this matter at all ? ' And

find, in Cambridge, that the younger M.A.'s are not only willing, but

greedy, to hear what you have to say ; and that the elder (who have, of

course, more old notions to     overcome)  are  facing the whole  question
in quite a different tone from  what they  did  three years ago.
                                                                   I won't

mention names, for fear of ' compromising ' men who are in an honest,
but ' funky,' stage of conversion : but I have been surprised, coming
Iback for three or four days, at the change since last winter.
                                                                  trust you

will find the old university (which has always held to physical science
and free thought, and allows, as she always has done, anybody to believe

250 Cliarles Kingsley.

anything reasonable, provided he don't quarrel with his neighbours) to be

your firmest standing ground in these isles.

  I" say this, especially now, because you will get, I suppose, an
attack on you by an anonymous ' Graduate of Cambridge,' which I found

in the hands of at least one very wise and liberal man, who admired it very

Imuch, but knew nothing of the fads. He showed it me, and, in the first
three pages I opened at hazard, pointed him out two or three capital
cases of ignorance or omission, on which I declined to read any more

of the book, as coming from a man who knew not, or did not choose

to  know, anything about the   facts.

    " Excuse the bad writing.    I have  a pen, which,    if natural  selection

influenced pens, would have been cast into the fire long ago : but the

disturbing moral element makes me too lazy to cast it thereinto, and

to find a new one. I have, as usual, a thousand questions to ask you,

and no time, nor brain to ask them now."

       TO J. CAMPBELL OF ISLAY.                                July I, 1867.

    " I have been studying carefully your ' Frost and Fire.' I read it

with full satisfaction as a gallant and steady inductive chase, which has,
I Ithink, surely run into its game.
                                         wish we could meet and have a
talk about ice-action. I am working at ice-problems in my Bagshot

sands and gravels ; and your book has thrown light on many phenomena

which  had outwitted me for    years past.   to Tarland,  and  then   up  into
       am going to Deeside     this summer,
  "I

Braemar. You do not deal much with the Dee. Can you tell me the

name of a good local geologist?"

   In the summer he was refreshed by a visit to Scotland, which
included some days of the British Association at St. Andrew's, and
a visit to M. Van de Weyer at Abergeldie Castle. His visits

to Scotland were always invigorating and congenial to him.
   In a letter to his friend, Professor Skelton, he says :

    " I shall be at the British Association at Dundee this year to see all
I Iyour good Scotch savans. Shall you be there?
                                                          am afraid am a
bad Englishman, for I like you Scots far better than my own country
Imen. You have given me a great pleasure.
                                                        know most of your

poems through ' Fraser,' and delighted in your drawings of West High

land scenery ; but I did not know till now that you were the author of

the little book of Highland songs with the bull on which was Mrs.
    '

                                        a'
                                                                                         it,

                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                       '
Kingsley's delight last year. Our especial favourites are The Reply
and The E'en brings hame.' "

                               St. Andrew's.               251

                               TO HIS WIFE.

                                          ST. ANDREW'S, Sunday, September 7.

" I am looking out on a glassy sea, with the sea-birds sailing about
Iclose under the window.
                               could wish to be at home seeing you all go

to church. Yesterday was a day of infinite bustle. The University and

City received the British Association, and feasted them. Every thing was

very well done, except putting me down for a speech against my express
entreaty. However, I only spoke five minutes. After this early dinner
a reception soiree of all the ladies of Fifeshire, ' East Neuk;' we escaped
Iearly.
         hate being made a lion of, and stuck tight to good Mrs. B.
I sat at dinner between dear old Phillips and Geikie, with Grant-Duff
next, who has asked me to come on to him if I have time, and kill his

salmon. Hurrah ! To-day to church at one, and dine at Principal Tulloch's

after, to meet Stanley, who is in great force in his beloved St. Andrew's,

which he called, in avery charming speech last night, his second university.

Jowett comes to-morrow with a reading party. Blackwood (of the
Magazine), who lives close by, has been most civil to me, wanting me

to come and stay with him, &c. ; he has told me much that is curious

about De Quincey, Hogg, Wilson, &c. He and B. and T. have been
Itrying hard to make me preach in Boyd's Church ; but talked it over
         last night, and I was glad to find that he thought with me,
with

that it is quite legal ; but that there was no need for a sudden and uncalled
Ifor row with the Puseyites.
                                          am most careful about all that. Nothing

can be more pleasant than my stay here has been. But the racket of

the meeting is terrible ; the talking continual, and running into Dundee,

by two trains, with the steamer at Broughty Ferry, between, is too much ;

so I have taken up my hat, and am off to Tilliepronie to-morrow ; with

the Provost of Dundee, and worse, the dear Red Lion Club crying to

me to stop and dine. I will bring for M. home, the Red Lion Club card,

with the comicalities on       I          which poor Edward Forbes designed.
                                     it,
These dear Scots folk -- should like to live always among them
                                                                     I if ;
they are so full of vigorous life and heart.  am very well, but longing
                                              I

                                                    is
for the heather. The rains here have been all but disastrous. All the

corn almost green here. Tell Maurice golf the queen of games,
      is
              is

                            ;
cricket the king and the golfing gentlemen as fine fellows as ever

saw.

   " Kiss all the darlings for me, Grenville especially."

   " Best of all," said Dean Stanley in a letter from Dundee,
speaking of the banquet, " was Kingsley's speech, comparing the
literature of science to camp followers picking up scraps from

252 Charles Kingsley.

the army, plundering, begging, borrowing, and stealing, and

giving what they got to the bairns and children that ran after
them, ending with a very delicate and well-timed serious turn of
' the voice of God revealed in facts.' " *

                                     Abergeldie Castle, Thursday, September 19, 1867.

   " I am quite unhappy to-day thinking of your parting with the dear boy,
for I can understand, though my man's coarser nature cannot feel as

intensely the pang to you of parting with a bit of yourself. More and

more am I sure, and physiologists are becoming more sure also, that the

mother is the more important, and in the case of the boy everything ;
the child is the mother, and her rights, opinions, feelings, even fancies

about him, ought to be first regarded.

   " I suppose you will write to me all about his starting ; but I have no

fear of his being anything but happy, and Madame V. says that boys are

always so much healthier as soon as they go to school.

 ...."Tell M. I will answer her delightful letter; I am quite well, better

than I have been for four years."

                                          TO MARY.

" My Mary,                  (With a picture of Abergeldie.)

       I" This is the real castle where am, and in the bottom                   of that

tower a real witch was locked up before she was burnt on Craig-na-Ban,

*      A contemporary paper thus mentions the  speech :--  'The     Literature  of Science,'
                                               proposed
"      Professor Campbell, St. Andrew's, then

coupling with it the name of Professor Kingsley. He also mentioned the names of

Professor Forbes, Dr. Chambers, and others, who deserved honour in connexion with

this"  toast.     Kingsley  said  he had  to return thanks for the  unexpected  honour <f
       Professor

coupling his name with any toast within those learned walls, and especially in con
nexion with the meeting of such a body as the British Association. He did not speak

for those honoured names which Professor Campbell had mentioned, but only for
what he would call the camp-followers of science, who came after the great columns

of the army, hanging on to the outskirts, perhaps taking care of the sick and wounded,

perhaps foraging and plundering a little. Other men laboured, and they entered into

their labours. However, the best thing they could say was that while they robbed --

and they robbed pretty handsomely, too-- they always kept a few scraps for the
children. They were always fair and just, and even generous to them ; and with

regard to the children, what he wanted was to teach them a scientific habit, to teach

them to understand that the great Master of the universe was speaking to little
                                          (Applause.) If they, as the camp-followers of
children face to face in everything.

science, could get a few little children to understand that, they would have saved the
British Association in the future a great deal of trouble."

               Scotch Crannoges.                                  253

overhead. At the back of the house, under my window, which is in the

top of the tower, the Dee is roaring, and the salmons are not leaping, and
a darling water-ouzel, with a white breast, is diving after caddises. And

Ias soon as have had luncheon I am going to fish with two dear little

girls, who catch lots of trout with a fly, and a real gilly in a kilt, who,

when he and I caught a salmon two days ago, celebrated the event by

putting on his Prince of Wales tartan and uniform, taking an enormous

bagpipe, and booming like an elephantine bumble-bee all round the

dinner-table, and then all about the house. It is very pleasant -- like a
dream --real stags in the forest looking at you, and real grouse, and black
cock, and real princesses walking about ; but I long to be home again

with you all, and that is truth. Love to Rose, and tell her to write to

me to Aboyne.                " Your aflectious pater,

                                                       "C. K."

               TO JOHN STUART, ESQ.

               (General Register House, Edinburgh.)

                                                                      Eversley, October 19, 1867.

  " Your papers came to hand. I am really very much obliged to you
for thinking of me. The pamphlet on 'Crannoges' tells me all I can
know (I presume), and certainly all I need know, to get a clear concep
tion of their nature and frequency. The fact of their enduring up to the

seventeenth century is quite new and curious to me

  " I shall lend my copy to Lady Huntly, who is deeply curious about

her own Loch Ceanner, and the Caneue and island.

  "The Maeshowe is equally curious. I had heard of the place; but

the records of the ' Jerusalem-farers ' are quite new, and refreshing

glimpses of the old world."              Eversley, January 14, 1868.

I" Many thanks, my dear sir, for your most valuable letter.       only
Iregret that have taken up so much of your time by my ignorance.
" The  origin of ' Desart ' is most curious and unexpected.
" The                                                          from                                ;
       life of ' Bartholomew Farne' I have seen many extracts
but the document itself I have not seen, and I do not know in what
Ifform, or by whom, it has been published.
                                            you can give me a line of

information on this point you would add much to my already great

obligation to you.                       Autobiography ; but surely
                                         In my boyhood he was one of
  I" shall certainly look at Ferguson's

or part of was published years since.
       a
          ; it,

               I

                                               a
                                                                                         a

                                                                                                                 it,
my heroes and remember story of his making map of the stars by

holding paper between him and the sky, and pricking out their places,

254 Charles Kingsley.

unless I dream. The story, too, of the farmer who did his work for him
I Iseem to recollect.
                                will surely renew my acquaintance with him for

your sake as well as his own, and my own. But the story is to me only

another proof that the last century and the beginning of this, did breed

in Scotland men of a native nobleness and energy which has no parallel
....in England, save, perhaps, among borderers and lake ' statesmen ' of

Wordsworth's acquaintances."

   " It may enable you," (says Mr. Stuart, when sending these letters to
the editor), " better to understand the first in date if I mention that in
October, 1867, your husband and I met under the hospitable roof of Mr.

Grant-Duff at Eden, in Banffshire. When we met at dinner, the canon
was recounting his experiences in the capture of a salmon on the river

Doveren, which flows past the house at Eden. Before coming to Eden
he had been visiting the Marchioness of Huntly on Deeside, and had
been much interested by the inspection of a Crannog, or stockaded island,*

* Mr. Stuart kindly sent some notes which will be interesting in explanation :--

   "(1) Crannoges, or more correctly 'crannogs,' is the name given to the Stockaded
Islands, which occur so frequently in the Lochs of Ireland and Scotland. They are

ana"lo(g2o)us     to the  pfalbauten of  the Swiss lakes.                    of the  name  of the
               Ceanner     or Canmore,   or Kinnord are different spellings

loch when Lady Huntly's crannog was found.
"(3) Caneue -- is Canoe.
"(4) Maeshowe is the name of a great mound in Orkney, which was opened in
1861. It contained a large central chamber, on the walls of which were cut nume

rou"s  inscriptions in Scandinavian Runes.      translation of  a  word  in  one  of the   inscrip
       (5) ' Jerusalem-farers ' is the literal
tions applied to those who are recorded to have broken into the chamber, and who

appear to have been a number of men collected by the Earl Ronald for the Crusades,

who wintered in Orkney in the year 1 153.

   "(6) Desart, a middle-age word, applied to the retreats of the Celtic monks of

Scotland and Ireland, from the Latin Daertum. The word enters into the topography

of both countries ; as for instance, the parish of Dysart in Scotland was the Desert
of St. Serf, and Temple Disart is only one of many similar names in Ireland origi

nat"in(g7)in    the same way.   a recluse,  who spent  his life on one of the Farne Islands ;
               Bartholomew was

and his life was printed for the members of the Surtees Society.

   "(8) Ferguson, whose autobiography is referred to, was James Ferguson, the

astronomer, who from a very humble beginning, rose to the topmost height of scientific

research. The circumstance in his career, which I brought under your husband's
notice, is one which has always had a peculiar interest with me, and I felt sure it

would appeal to the canon's warm heart. Ferguson, when a little boy, became the
servant of James Glashan, my maternal great-grandfather. The lad used to go out to
the fields at night after his work was over, and in his own rude fashion, make obser

vations on the position and courses of the heavenly bodies, making fair copies on
the following day of the hasty maps thus formed. On these occasions, and when his

            Slate Lamina.                           255

in Loch Kinnord, which had been recently explored by Lady Huntly,
and this serves to explain a reference in his letter, to a paper on the

subject of these early remains which I had sent to him.

   " His mind was open to an interest in everything which was possessed

of historical association, and so you will see that he was pleased to have
an account of mine of the great tomb in Orkney called ' Maeshowe,'

Iwith its runic inscriptions, of which had been telling him when we

met.

   " At this time, however, he was full of enthusiasm on the history of

the early saints and hermits. It happened that I was then on my way

to the Abbey of Deer-- the site of one of the Celtic Monasteries founded

by St. Columba and his disciple St. Drostan -- as I was engaged in the
preparation of ' The Book of Deer,' a copy of the Gospels which had

belonged to the early foundation, and I wished to identify the localities

specified in the legend of its founder. There was thus a common
Iground of discussion between us, and
                                       recollect that our conver
Isation was prolonged to a late hour of the night.
                                                    had arranged

to resume my journey on the following morning at an early hour,

and hardly expected to see any of my friends ; but just as I was

preparing to take a hasty and solitary meal in the dining-room, the
canon joined me and said, ' There are just one or two points in what

we were speaking of last night, that I wish to have a farther talk about;'

and so we resumed our discourse, which was prolonged till the moment
       I had to say ' Good-bye.'
Iwhen                             hearty eagerness  which your husband
       need hardly say that the
   "

displayed in all even the minutest parts of the history of our Celtic

Church and its missionary founders, was very charming, and that it led
to a farther communication referred to in your letter."

            TO W. PENGELLY, ESQ., F.G.S., &c.

"I see in the last quarterly                     Eversley, November 7, 1867.
                                  of the Geological Society, that Mr.
D. Macintosh writes on the curving of ' Slate Laminae in Somersetshire.'

  " I don't know his address, but perhaps you may tell him from me,

that there are remarkable instances thereof in the neighbourhood of
Ilfracombe. If I recollect right, S.W. of the town, the curvature is up
Ithe hill.
            could never understand it. But the conception of a crawl-

plans required even more leisure for their success, the worthy master of this infant
philosopher took the flail and did the work which required to be done, so as to give
him the opportunity of working out his designs at leisure.

   "General Register House, Edinburgh, January, 1876."

256 Charles Kingsley.

ing mass of ice explains it to me now, as it does many things which

puzzled me in youth.

  " I have been reading, I need not say with what pleasure, certain
tracts of yours which I had not ere now time to study. I shall not

intrude compliments on you, but come to a question.

   " Among the ' Raised Beaches in Barnstaple Bay,' you take no notice

of Northam Pebble Ridge. I have long considered this as a raised
beach, because : 1. It is high above high-water mark. 2. I could

never find any signs of accretion to the sea bottom outside being all
      is
                                        3.
                                                             a
                                                             it,
                                                                                           it
smooth white sand.  Because similar pebble ridge, as seems to

me, forming, or has been formed, at Buckich Gore, running out far

to sea northward, to the westward of the Ridge (four miles to the west),

and intercepting any stones which may fall from the cliffs, at least

between Bucks and Hartland Point. 4. Because beneath the pebble
ridge at low tides, there are exposed beneath the sand, beds of blue

clay and peat, seemingly homologous with the other sunken forests of

West of England and North Wales.
" Now this bears on your Presidential address,
                                                26, where you say
      '

                I

                         a it

                                     I it
                                                                      is
                                                                                                p.
                                                                             I
                                                                              (I I
that In no instance are the subaerial portions of the forests overlain by

marine deposits beyond the reach of the waves at the existing level.'

Of course, all depends on what you think the pebble ridge to be.

have looked at long, and have come to the same conclusion as

think)  Phillips came. But that   of the same era        as the                                raised
bedded  beach of the north side -- Braunton and Saunton  (which                                  used

to puzzle over as boy, and which you have so well vindicated against
Spence Bate), do not say. It seems to me rather of the same era as

certain raised shell beaches which could show you about Hunstanton,

on the north coast of Norfolk, which certainly seem to me later than the

submerged post-pliocene forests of Brancaster, &c

    " Pardon my daring to differ from you in opinion."

                    TO MR. T. DIXON.

                                      Eversi.ey, Christmas, 1867.

" Many thanks for the trouble which you have so kindly taken for

me, and for the letters you have sent me.                                                      The

   " am much surprised to hear of almshouses paying rates.
it

   I

                               is

                                             I

                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                         it,
whole Poor-Law Question must be looked into. It has got into the

hands of the small shopkeepers, as far as can see, altogether. But as
for shifting the burden of rates and taxes, --the true place to shift

seems to me,        on to the large shopkeepers and employers of

labour, who rapidly grow rich, and therefore could endure little more

               Letter from Professor Shairp.                                                    257

taxation. As for putting it on the land --you cannot be aware that land

does not now pay more than 2^ on 3 per cent, to buy, so that the
possession of it is a luxury, which only the rich can afford. This is

owing to the heavy burdens which lie already on the (generally) ex

                                         is
                                             a

                                                          is,
                                                                    is

                                                                                 a

                                                                           if is
hausted and poor soil of England ; and its effect that the land

drifting into too few hands. That happens by no privilege or injustice,

but simply by supply and demand, there being so very few purchasers

for the luxury of being landowner. This                                                         serious evil, and grow
is is                                                                                           needed --

       I

                  is
                      it

                                 a
ing one. But do not think that much shifting of taxes
what needed, not squandering them when they are raised --and

there that waste must be the fault of the House of Commons, and
Ifnobody else.
                we do not put good men into Parliament, we must be

punished by our own folly. God grant the working men in their elections

may choose honest and virtuous men      don't care what their opinions
                                    (I

                                             is
are), leaving them as much ««-pledged and free as possible, and trusting

to their conscience and honour to do what right."

   He made acquaintance this year with Professor Shairp of St.
Salvator's College, St. Andrew's, who thus recalls the meeting
which was so welcome to Mr. Kingsley
                                  I

                                     (I
                                                                                             :
"Twice only was privileged to meet him, but of both meetings
                                                                                                I
have very vivid and pleasing remembrance.                                                                      '
;a
"The first was in                   think) October, 1867, at Benson's Home,                              I;

Wellington College. Mr. Kingsley came with your son Maurice to                                               S aI
                                                                                                                I
dinner as there was no one there, but Benson and myself, we had his
conversation all to ourselves. During dinner remember his saying that
               I
                     a

                        I
                              I if

                                 aI

                                                                '

                                             I
whenever he was tired or out of spirits the book he most turned to was

Carlyle's French Revolution.'       expressed some surprise at this, say
   I I'
ing that thought Carlyle's,         stimulating atmosphere, was certainly

not soothing but disturbing one to me. Of this latter element, the
a

soothing mean, think said found what came home to me far more

in some of the best of Newman's Parochial Sermons --not those

which deal with controversial subjects, but those which dwell on great

universal truths. Mr. Kingsley did not quite agree, and we had good

deal of friendly discussion arising out of this.
" Afterwards,
it                                the drawing-room, he told me that he wished to
                            a in
know more minutely about our old Scottish ballads.                                              think he wished

for something he had on hand to write.
" We sat for
                                  long time in close talk on the ballads and re

member being much struck by his acquaintance, and still more with
his fresh appreciation and insight into them -- much keener, thought,

         VOL. II.

258 Charles Kingsley.

than that of most educated Scotchmen. I was very sorry when the

time came that evening when we had to rise and go. The only other

time I met him was in July, 1872 (I think), at a garden-party given by
Ithe Dean of Westminster and Lady Augusta, in the Precincts. When

met Mr. Kingsley, he came aside from the throng, and we walked up
I Iand down on the grass for some time.
                                                     remember when I told him

was going to return to the Highlands, he said, with a sort of half sigh,
I' Ah, yes !-- those Highland hills -- I wish
                                                     were among them,' and

                                      of what  he had seen of

                                        met,    felt as if he
Ispo"kBe owthith
                 the deepest delight                            them.                                                                   an old
                times, whenever we                              had been

friend. This, for many reasons, which you may guess."

                           TO T. HUGHES, ESQ.                         EveRsLEy.

" What is a National Freedman's Aid Union, which writes to me, and

which  has your name on    it ? What do they want to do ?             of blood                                                             and
       am very glad these  slaves are freed, at whatever cost
   "I
treasure. But now --what do they want from us? There is infinite

wild land for them to till. There is infinite political skill in the north

to get them and the land in contact. There is infinite money in the

north to furnish them with tools and seed ; and there           iIs,  hope, infinite

common sense in the north to punish them as strong rogues and vaga
                                                     II '
bonds         they won't work.
              do they ask our
   " What
if                              money  for,    over  and above  ?    am personally
             '
         if                                                      aI
shy of giving mine. The negro has had all ever possessed for
                                                                                                                                        ;

emancipation ruined me. And yet would be ruined                       second time,
                                ? it ;
emancipation had to be done over again.                  am no slave-holder at
                                       I
heart. But have paid my share of the great bill, in Barbadoes and
                !I                                a
Demerara, with vengeance and don't see myself called on to pay
                    a

other men's                                                     it       got. For
                                                                    is
   " But tell me what will be done with this money when

got will be, in plenty. Is            to be spent in turning the south into a
it

big Hayti of savage squatters or as rate in aid to keep these poor
wretches from starving, which ought to be done by the American

government. They have had the gain. They have made themselves

by this war the biggest and most terrible nation on earth.               What do
they want with rate in aid? "
I
                       a
                                  a

                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                    3,
                       TO HORACE FIELD, ESQ.

                                                     Eversley, November                                                                 1867.

" have just read book of yours, called Heroism,' sent to me last

                         The Divine Education.                                                                                                                   259

April, but mislaid. Pray excuse my seeming rudeness in not having

Ibef"ore   acknowledged  it.    surprised,                   but  deeply  touched         with  much                                                                  of
          have been not   only

it. It re-echoes much which I have felt and thought about the mystery

of life ; here and there there is                            seems to me) great wisdom and in
                                                             (it

                                                                                                  I
sight, and everywhere honesty and original thought and speech.

regret much that you have used the Swedenborgian nomenclature, and

even spelling. Conjugial for conjugal, though allowed by a few Latin

examples,  is      pedantry on Swedenborg's part, which must not be
                a

followed, save by those who wish to make themselves answerable the

world's eyes for all his peculiarities. So of angels and devils,' --quite
agreeing with your general meaning, and of heaven and hell.'
                                                                  '
                                                                              '

                                                                                     '
                                                                                               ''
                                                                                                            '

                                                                                                          in

                                                                                             I

must say that in the dense ignorance and stupidity with which we are

just now surrounded, you had better not use these words as you do,

without previous definition, or you will be supposed to be mere supporter
                                                             is
of the very popular superstitions of the mediaeval Church, with which you
exactly do not agree. But of your belief in a special providence, ofIt
                                                                                                                                                                      I II a
                                                                  is I
                                                                               it.
                                                                                    is a
perpetual education of men by evil as well as good, by small things as
Ifwell as great, cannot speak too highly.
           I                                                              did not believe that,

                            ;
could believe nothing and your book                               delightful to me, because

find one other man in England who does believe                                          The explanation

which you give, goes for little with me.                                  as good as any other

ever heard perhaps better but what comforts me, the recognition
         I
                    ;
                                a

                                                          ;

                                               it
of the fact by one pious man, who yet believes in physical science and

political  economy.            you --                        would be, read and study Darwin.                                                                         In
           were to advise
  " If
him you will find justification for much which you have said -- and an
explanation --without troubling your mind with merely mediaeval devils

(who have no ground of existence in any facts known to me), of much

which you have said.

   " should like very much to hear from you, and beg you to forgive the
I

seeming neglect of my not having acknowledged your book till now."

   The following letters may be valuable to stammerers. His own

great mental suffering from this cause made him most anxious
to help others. They were the rules he had arrived at in his
own case after years of observation
I

                                             a
                                                                                :

                                                                                                                                   S 3,
                                                                                                                                                              2
                                TO L. T., ESQ.                                            July                                                                 1867.
                                 worse case than my own.
" have seldom known                                                       As for stammor-

260 Charles Kingsley.

Iing, believe it to     be perfectly curable,       by the most simple    and   truly
                       persevered in. The          great obstacles to   cure
scientific rules --if                                                          are --

i. Youth, which prevents attention and force of will. 2. In after life,

nervous debility of any kind.
   " But with the cure of stammering, nervous debility decreases, owing

to the more regular respiration, and therefore more perfect oxygenation

of the blood, and so the health improves with the speech.                     Before
   " Try a simple experiment, it is an old and notorious method.

beginning to speak, take two or three deep breaths, and always breathe

at a stop, so as to prevent doing what all old stammerers do, speaking

with an empty lung.

   "Take a pair of very light dumbbells and exercise your chest with

them, taking care to ;'«-spire deeply when you raise them over your

head, and when (consequently) the ribs are raised, and the lungs ex

panded. Do this slowly and quietly, and I think you will find, though

it will not cure you, yet it will relieve and literally comfort your breathing
enough to give you confidence in my hints."

                           TO MISS                       .

" You can cure yourself, or all but cure yourself in three months,

without any one observingis               you will think over, and practise, what
                           ;a

                                     it,

                                    if
follows, and which     matter of simple common sense.
                       or you will find your health and spirits fail you.
   " And you must try

Especially you will find your chest contract from the effort to force your

bre"atNhowou, tyobuy  unnatural means.             your  upper  teeth,  like  mine,  shut
                      stammer mainly because

over the lower ones. Therefore,                    you do not open your mouth wide,
                      is

                                      it

                                               if
                      forced out between your teeth, with great exertion,
Ifyour breath
instead of between your lips.                    the breath goes out between the lips,

then the lips can act on to form the consonants and you can articu
                                                                ;

Iflate.  not, you cannot.
" Therefore you must first open your mouth wide when you speak.

You will be afraid to do so at first, lest people remark it. They will

not. Every one opens their mouths, and therefore they only observe a

person who does not.
" If you find
                       difficult to speak with your mouth open (and                                                will
                      it
                         it

                                               if
                                                                         ,
                                                                            it
                                                                                                               a it
very likely give you pain in the ear at first, but only at first), get bit

of cork, cut about so thick                        and put between your back

teeth, and speak so. By-the-bye, your back teeth are bad, you ought

to get rid of them, and have false teeth. Toothache and bad teeth are

very bad for this complaint.

                            Rules for Stammerers.                                                     261

     "You must practise reading out loud to yourself, opening your mouth

at the vowels as wide as you can, and perhaps keeping the cork in at

first, till you have made a habit of
is                                                                 Begin by reading poetry (which
                        a

                                                              it.
     easiest) the first thing in the morning, and then again in the evening

before dinner.    quarter of an hour each time.                    Then try prose.                    But

   " Read for

always   keep up reading aloud, for months to                      come, or even for years.
                                                                    mind your stops. You have
   " 2.  You must, in reading and in speaking,

been in the habit of speaking from an empty lung. You must learn to

speak from a full one. For there no wind in the organ- bellows,
                               ;

                                  if
                                      if

                                                  is
                                                        is

                                                               in
                                                                               is

                                                                                         a
the pipes will not sound and also, an empty lung an unwholesome

and injurious thing. For there no air the lungs, the blood
                                                                                                    is
not oxygenated. The more you read aloud, from                                                             is
                                                                                            full lung, the

stronger and healthier, and more cheerful you will feel; for air the

finest of   all tonics.     this.  Before beginning to read, take two or three
   " Now     how to do

long full breaths. And also (and this an excellent rule) before you
                                           if is                   you are nervous, take two or
begin to speak to any one, especially

three breaths and then open your mouth and speak. You will find the

nervousness go, and the words come out, as by miracle. Remember

Balaam's ass      could not speak, till his mouth                  was opened.'
                  full stop, you should stop, and                  take long
   " At each                               '                                                breath    at
                                                   a               a                              of ;

colon, less full, at semi-colon less, at comma less still. But keep                                         ;a
         a        of
                         of a
sacredly to the habit breathing at every stop. Read and speak slow
                          the consonants, and the vowels will take care
and take care                                                                                         them

selves.

   "And how to take care of the consonants? By taking care of the

tongue and        lips.     watch          who speaks beautifully                           you will
                  you will
   " Now
            I if                   anyone                                                             see,

that the tongue lies quite quiet, on level with the lower front teeth,
                                   I
and never flies up in the mouth. You will see also that they use their
                                                 :;
lips great deal and form the consonants with them. But you will
     a            it                            it

see also, that they keep the upper lip down and still, so that the upper;a

                                                              it
front teeth are hardly seen at all while they move the under lip great
                                                                   I
deal, making play upon the upper. Watch the Bishop of Winchester
                                                                            it
(S.   Wilberforce), or Bright,     or any great actress, and you will see this.    a is
     " Now, know (though            have not seen) that your tongue flies about
in your mouth. It did in mine                                                              aa
                                           always does, because                             trying to

do the work which the lips should do. So get into the habit of deter-

minately keeping  it        down. You will find easy enough after while.

But at first, when you speak and read, always be sure that you can feel

your lower teeth against the tip of your tongue.                      know beautiful

262 Charles Kingsley.

                    aII                                     about her mouth, and consequently
great lady who lets her tongue                              a
                               ;                                it in
you often cannot understand her.      fly                               is

   "Also keep your upper lip down, and right over your upper teeth,                is

and pronounce the consonants with your lower lip against them. Some

people will pronounce the consonants against the upper teeth, instead

of the lip, and let the lip fly up. But                                          dangerous. One of the

most beautiful people know does that when she excited and then
                                                                                       it
you"  can hardly understand her.                             looking glass, to see that your
      Practise this (as used) before                        open, and your tongue lying low ;

upper lip down tight, your mouth
          it ;
             is is
and still and after very little while, you will find quite easy,

because             quite natural because your organs will have returned to

their natural uses, and you will be speaking like other people.
   " Lastly, use some sort of exercises morning and evening to expand

your chest. Raising your arms over your head few dozen times as                  a              is
good as anything -- or Indian clubs -- or something of that kind. Any

Ifthin"gto raise the ribs and expand the chest.                                      yourself.  You will
          you will attend to these rules, you can cure

fail and fall back often. Never mind. You will succeed better and

better each time, till habit becomes nature.                                     stammered far worse till
                                                            I

                                                                                 if
was five-and-thirty, or forty almost. But you are young, and can do
I

                     7.
                                                        5.
what you choose easily.                                                          You will soon acquire the

   " Do not be discouraged about your lips.

power of moving the under while you keep the upper still, you take

pains to open your mouth wide.

"Summa: -- 1. Open your mouth. 2. Take full breaths and plenty

of them, and mind your stops. 3. Keep your tongue quiet. 4. Keep

your upper lip down.                                        Use your lower lip.  6.  Read to yourself out

loud.     Read and speak slow, slow, slow.

                CHAPTER XXV.

                                                                1868.

                                                      Aged 49.

Attacks of the Press -- Lectures on Sixteenth Century -- Lilly's
     Euphues-- Lay-help -- Mr. Longfellow-- Letters on Emigration and
    Colonization-- On Military Education -- Newman's Dream of St.
     Gerontius-- Sandhurst --Comtism-- Sir Henry Taylor on Crime and
     its Punishment-- Letter from Mr Dunn-- Proposed Visit to West
     Indies--Ice Action in Scotland-- Letter from Rey. William Har

      rison.

                 I" Life, repeat, is energy of love,

                               Divine or human ; exercised in pain,

                   IfIn strife, and tribulation, and ordained
                                   so approved and sanctified, to pass
                            Through shades and silent rest, to endless joy."

                                                                                      Wordsworth.

   " It is the best commentary on that epitome of the life of Christ which presents itself
in its most splendid originality --that 'He went about doing good.' It is the point

which the rarest and noblest of his followers have found it most difficult to imitate ; it
is the point in which His life transcended most absolutely the ideal of the attainments
of His very greatest forerunners. The seclusion of the hermit, the self-maceration of
the ascetic, the rapture of the mystic--all these are easier and more common than the

unwearied toil of a self-renouncing love." -- Farrer.

                 CHAPTER XXV.

   THE professorial lectures this year were on the 16th century,
and were crowded, as usual ; but the severe attacks on his teach

ing in two leading newspapers in the preceding autumn had
inclined him, for the honour of his University and for his own
honour, to resign his post. But as he believed that both attacks

sprang from some personal feeling, he thought it best, before send
ing in his resignation, to consult some of the Cambridge autho
rities, on whose friendship and impartiality he could rely. They
strongly advised him to retain the Professorship, and on their

advice, though the work was too heavy for him, he determined to
keep it on for at least another year.

   Writing home at this time he says :

  I" have been very unhappy about your unhappiness about me, and

cannot bear to think of your having a pang on my account. But you

must remember that these battles and this abuse, painful as they may

be, are what every man has to go through who attains any mark,

or does any good in the world. Think how far more obloquy was

gone through by Buckland, Milman, Maurice, Hare, Stanley, Robert

son, Arnold ; they have all had to fight their fight. But they conquered,

and so shall I, please God, in spite of my mistakes  In the
Imeantime will keep out of war, and do the duty that lies nearest me,

that all may be well. So pray comfort yourself and think cheerfully and
....hopefully of the future, which after all is not so very dark, if one looks
at "it fairly."  I Ihave got well through my lecture on Paracelsus.

should think there were a hundred men there, and the Public Orator

and Wright --only about fifteen cards. So the men came for love. Then

I heard a noble lecture from Mr. Maurice, and walked with him. I
told my men to-day to read something of his. I am quite happy in the

266 Charles Kingsley.

....thought of being home on Saturday with my work done.  My mother's

illness is a sufficient reason for my return."

   Professor Max Miiller, in speaking of " The Roman and
Teuton," which was more severely criticised than any of Mr.

Kingsley's works, says :

" His lectures were more largely attended than any in Cambridge,

and they produced a permanent impression on many a young mind.

They contain the thoughts of a poet and a moralist, a politician, a

theologian, and before all, of a friend and counsellor of young men

while reading for them and with them one of the most awful periods

in the history of mankind, the agonies of a dying empire, and the

birth of new nationalities.  History was but his text, his chief aim

was that of the teacher and preacher, and as an eloquent interpreter
of the purposes of history before an audience of young men to whom
history is but too often a mere succession of events to be learnt by

heart and to be ready against periodical examinations, he achieved

what he wished to achieve    According to the unanimous testimony

of those who heard them delivered, they stirred up the interest of young

men, and made them ask for books which undergraduates had never
asked for before at the University Library." *

   That he was doing a work among the undergraduates, there
are many who will testify ; and at the day when the history of
all hearts shall be revealed, and perhaps not till then, will it be
known how many young men owe the first dawn of a manly
spiritual life to the very lectures on which severe strictures were

passed.

   The Rev. J. Pulliblank, of Liverpool, thus recalls his influence

on him in his own undergraduate days :

  " I revered and still revere your husband, and can never tell anybody
how much I owe him, until ' in that high place ' I can speak out and tell
him all. I find a few memoranda, written in a note-book at the time,
at Cambridge. After a lecture I think on the French Revolution or on

the colonization of America, -- ' We have not yet reached,' he said, 'and
I know not when we shall reach, the true aristocracy, when the upta-rot,
the best men, shall have the governing of our country ; but thus much

             * Preface to "The Roman and Teuton," by Max Miiller, 1875.

                      Influence at Cambridge.                                                                         267

I do know, that we shall at last come to and that we pray for every

time we use the Lord's Prayer. " Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done
          :
              '

              It it

                    is is
                                                                       it,

                                                                                                                   '

                                                                                                        it
on earth, as          in Heaven. Thy name be hallowed."                                                   The under

scored words marked by that pause, which was so deeply significant.

In G. R. Crotch's rooms, conversation arose about the delay of some

reform. Somebody said 'public opinion' wanted awakening. Prof.

Kingsley              not the many who reform the world, but the few, who

rise superior to that public opinion which crucified our Lord many years

ago.'

  "In E. H. Palmer's (now Professor Palmer's) rooms, March 23, 1868,

the talk was about the state of nature and the natural man, in which one

of us young men propounded some advanced views. Professor Kingsley
agreed, till an example was given --viz., the N. American Indian. Then

he said, No, no, that won't grant the savage not natural man, but
a
              '

                        I
                               I

                                                                           ;
                                                                                            is
                                                                                                       a
most unnatural beast, playing all manner of unnatural and unwholesome

pranks upon himself.' Then remember he went on with what was                                                          a

favourite topic of his, that civilization seems the only natural state for

man, because savage races are decaying even before civilization touches

them. He instanced the North American Indian, and said that European

civilization, bad as was, did not kill them they were dying out before
Ia

                           it
                                                '

                                                                                       ;
ever white man set eyes on the New World.
   " had the rare pleasure of sitting next to Prof. Kingsley at several

of Prof. Maurice's lectures on Conscience.' One day, Maurice was

speaking of the inadequacy of Mr. Bain's theory of conscience as tested

by facts (Lecture III.), Prof. Kingsley's fighting blood was evidently
roused, and when Nelson's famous signal was referred to was quoted,
                             I

                                   '

                                          I

                                                           (it
though        not printed in the Lectures), had to shrink into very small
        it
            is
                   a
compass, for strong right hand, shot out straight from the shoulder,

passed quite as near as was pleasant to my face.                                                          looked and saw

that Prof. Kingsley could not see for tears. Then Maurice went on to

quote Sir Hastings Doyle's lines on the Sinking of the Birkenhead,'

and at the end we all rose, as near to tears as to anything else, and

cheered. Two or three days afterwards, just few words in one of
                                                                                          a

Prof. Kingsley's lecture You who come to this room on the other:
                          '
days of the week, know from one who can teach you, and me also --

(God grant that we may learn) what duty is.' "

   Happily he was well and vigorous this year, and had so much
work on hand in his parish and with his pen, that he had not
time to be depressed by the attacks of the press. He began his
little history of the Hermits for the " Sunday Library; " brought

268 Charles Kingsley.

out a series of            Papers for Children on Natural          Science in  " Good
Words for the              Young," called, " Madam How                         Why ; "
                                                                   and Lady

lectured for the Hampshire Diocesan Society ; preached at

Whitehall and St. James's London, at Sandringham, and at
Windsor ; and got through nearly sixteen volumes of Comte's

works, in preparation for his next year's lectures at Cambridge.

                           TO MR. T. DIXON.

                                            EVERSLEY, Friday, January 17, 1868.

   " I send you a letter about the land question, which you can use as

you like. I think if you will go over it with any neighbouring farmer,

you will find it pretty right ; and if he will alter prices, from my south

Icountry estimates to your north country ones, it will be, think, valuable

to quiet the minds of many who think they could do better than now, if

the land was in their hands, being ignorant that agriculture is the least

paying trade (in England) that a man can follow owing to the general
exh"aWusetiognotofyoaullr
                           the good soils.  story-books  -- which  last delighted  me.
                            MSS. and the
I have not seen the ' Builder ' on Home Colonization. I have not so
much hope of it in England as I had ; but if it could be applied to

Ireland, it might do well. There is a remarkable letter in yesterday or
the day before's ' Times ' (in small type) on colonization for Ireland.
But emigration is the thing. Mr. Walter, of Bearwood, is just back from

America, and advising every man who is ill at ease here, to go to

Canada or the United States ; either (he says) will make a man and a

yeoman of him at once.                                             Give me the man,

  I" am pleased with what you say of your father.

who, like the old middle-age master workers, is not ashamed to teach his

men by doing their work with them. That spirit is dying now in manu

facturers and shopkeepers. Really, the country squires, who are many of

them good practical farmers, and do not think it below them to use their

own hands at hard labour, are the only examples left. My father would
Ihave put his hand to a spade or an axe with any man, and so could
Ipretty well, too, when
                           was in my prime, and my eldest son is now

working with his own hands at farming, previous to emigrating to South

America, where he will do the drudgery of his own cattle-pens and sheep-

Ifolds ; and if were twenty-four and unmarried, I would go out there

too, and work like an Englishman, and live by the sweat of my brow."

I" return your interesting and sad letter.                       January 25, 1868.
                                                         One comfort for your

                          Lilly s " Euphues!'                                                269

    I
             is,
relative that in America she can be mistress of her own property, and

not   ruined, as well as ill-used, by bad             husband.
   "    cannot but think that you might              find worthy
                          it                                       capitalists        round  you
                                       it

                                              a
                                                  a
who would advance money for scheme even temporary, for employing

the poor fellows on breaking up waste land. But they are not ac
                                                         I
customed to they will find terrible work.
                                                               if

                                                                       it
    it,                                                            have handled spade
                   it
and fork myself at        many an hour, and know. Our lads here can

do because the one set of muscles get hardened to from youth                                 ;

but   only the    strong  ones can  make             much wages at it.     ago        had been
      Ah, that    advice   which    used             to give twenty years
   "                      I

taken That the trades' unions would have organized an emigration
       !

committee for each trade, and chosen by ballot certain number to
                                                                   a
                                                                                   ;
emigrate every year, on funds furnished by the society then things

might have been different. But they had not confidence enough in

each other, and were unwilling to sacrifice portion of their earnings toa
set some of their number up in affluence and comfort and so, penny
                                                                   j

wise and pound foolish, have spent tens of thousands in doing nothing,

whe"rAesthfoery   might have spent  thousands in doing permanent good.                those
                  the Emperor, who  shall speak to him He one of
                                                      ;                    is is
who has seen the good and chosen the evil. He knew (his writings?
           what he ought to do. But he put himself on the throne
show   it)

by the help of the army and the priests and he has been their;
slave ever since. And now he growing old and weak, and has no
                                    is

force left to free himself from the net which he has wound about his

own feet and when he dies, God help France. But the man (to do
him justice) has done all the good he could
                                                     ;             the employment which

                                                               in
he has given, which has been enormous and the working people love

him for that, and ought to do so. But his whole career proving, and

will prove more when      it        over, that there  is           Providence which rules
                             is is                        a

this earth, whose name              neither Political Economy, nor Expediency,

but The Living God, who makes every right action reward, and every

wrong action punish, itself."

   Mr. Kingsley was now asked to write preface to reprint
of Lilly's " Euphues," one of his most treasured books, and he

writes in answer
       I
                                     :

                              :I
                                                            '
                                                                            a
                                                  I
                                                                                      a
                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                  a
" Your letter followed me to Sandringham, or would have answered at

once.     am delighted, but not surprised, to find that you and Professor

Morley appreciate Euphues.          preached bit of him at Sandringham
on Sunday, as good doctrine         'Tis virtue, gentlemen, that maketh the

poor rich, the base-born noble, the deformed beautiful, the subject

270 Charles Kingsley.

....sovereign/ &c One of the finest things in the English language.
          I fear that Scott has done the book lasting harm (probably he
never read it through), and I do not feel inclined to write a preface to

      What would do, would be to review and spread in all ways
among young men and young women over whom have influence."
it.

         I

                                                                          it,

                                                     I

                                                                                        it

                   TO HON. AND REV. H. LYTTELTON.

                                                                       March 22, 1868.

" am exceedingly obliged to you for doing me the honour
I
             .
                  .
                   .
                           .
              II

                                   a

                            I
Ifof asking my criticism.             have none to  give save complete approval.
" you can show that lay-preaching
desired --and am heartily glad to find              is   legal (which  I is  greatly to be

                                                        ;that you are of that opinion),

should advise by all means your trying the experiment.                       do not think

that you will get list of clergymen who will be practically acquainted
                                                           '

                                                             it
with the subjects assigned,' in most cases while would be pitiable                                     if

you could not, on the ground of their being laymen, avail yourself of

the services of many a good Christian. Such                a  man as Mallet,* for

instance, of the Board of Trade, whose views on pauperism, and on

political economy in general, are as Christian as they are scientific.

Your notion of discussion afterwards, which should re-act upon the

clergy, also very good."
I
      I            TO REV. SIR WM. COPE, BART.

              is                         Eversley Rectory, May 1868.
                                                                                            2,
" My dear Sir William Cope,is I
         " find that your Newman's poems have been returned without                               it,

my expressing my opinion of the Dream of Gerontius.                    read the Dream
                                         is

                                                  I

                                                              it

                                                       is I
with awe and admiration.              However utterly         may differ from the

entourage in which Dr. Newman's present creed surrounds the central

idea, must feel that that central idea as true as                      noble, and as

suppose, this The longing of the soul to behold Deity, converted
                   :
by the mere act of sight, into self-abasement and self-annihilation so
                      is              a

utter, that the soul ready, even glad, to be hurled back to any depth,

to endure any pain, from the moment that becomes aware of God's
                                         I
actual perfection and its own utter impurity and meanness.
                                               it
   " How poor my words are in expressing in prose what Dr. N. has

exprest in poetry, am well aware. But am thankful to any man, who
                   I

under any parabolic, or even questionably true forms, will teach that

                           *  Now Sir Louis Mallet.

             Sandhurst and Military Education.                                                       271

to a generation which is losing more and more the sense of reverence,

and beginning confessedly to hate excellence for its own sake, as the

Greek ostracised Aristides, because he was tired of hearing him called

the Just. As for the mocking of the fiends, I did not feel with the

Bishop of Oxford that it indicated any possibility of unbelief, but rather

showed merely that Dr. N. had looked fairly at the other side of a great

question, and dare say the worst which can be said on
                                  it,                                                                which he
                                      a

                                                                                it,
would not have dared to do, had he not made up his mind. Jean Paul
Richter says somewhere, that no man believes his own creed thoroughly

till he can afford to jest about  daring paradox, which seems to be

fulfilled in Dr. N. But there was much in Gerontius, as in the rest of

the book, which shocked and pained me much, and which will continue

so to do."

After his first introduction to Mr. Longfellow, whom he was

invited to meet at dinner on his arrival from America, he writes

to his wife
" ....a
               have seen Mr. Longfellow. The dinner last night was
     II
           I:success, and all went well. Tennyson was not there, but Maurice

and the Orator (W. G. Clark of Trinity), who had come all the

way from Cambridge. Longfellow                                                                    far handsomer and nobler than
                         I
                                             is

                                          I

                                                                                     a
his portraits make him.  do not think ever saw finer human

face.  had an opportunity of telling him something of what we all felt

for him, and of the good work he had done in England, and to get                                     a

promise out of him that he would come and see us when he comes back

in May. He had three very pleasant gentleman-like Americans with
....him.
       kept in the background and talked to them."

   In the spring of this year he was consulted by friend in the                                   a

army, who was deeply interested in the subject of military edu

cation, on the state of Sandhurst. A Military Education Com

mission had recently been proposed by Lord Eustace Cecil,
on which some officers wished to see Mr. Kingsley placed.
This wish, however, was not carried into effect; there being those

in the Government (at that time Conservative one) who thought
him too much of a reformer.

   The two following letters on this subject are interesting as
showing his opinion of what alone could benefit Sandhurst, and

these proposed changes, though not at his suggestion, have been
    some measure carried out since
in

                                                                    a

                                                                                               :

272 Charles Kings ley.

                            to captain --.

                                                                        Eversley, June 12, 1868.

  " I have no time (never less) to write on the Sandhurst matter ; but
as for facts, I do know a man who has had as many opportunities as any
man of knowing the conduct of cadets outside, and if he is willing to say

what he knows (which hardly any one             will put him communication
                                            iIs)

                                                I
                                                                       in
with you. But you will do very little good, warn you, because beside

the military party which may wish to keep things as they are, the whole

of the dissenting radical party will be opposed to any real reform of the

thing. They are glad enough to revile its faults, but would be sorry to

see them amended,   lest     should become strong                      and  popular.
                    will  not mend Sandhurst till                      you  mend the
   " Moreover, you  A                                                                 education

                           it
                                  is
                                   in

                                            a
                                                                   is
given at schools.   Sandhurst lad's time taken up there in learning

what he ought to have learnt at school.
    " What Sandhurst wants
                               discipline and public spirit.                The former

can be got. The latter not till great war, which will make the officer

again necessary and valuable the eyes of the people."

                                                                       Eversley, July 15, 1868.

    " have received note from Lord Eustace Cecil, asking me whether
II      I
     Iwould give evidence before the Military Education Committee, anda
                                                                            is

                                                                                       if
    could speak with any knowledge upon the education and discipline of

Sandhurst.I

   " have declined, and said that my knowledge of Sandhurst being
principally second-hand was not available as evidence. It plainly a

ver"y   different thing to be an enquirer, and  to be the                    person enquired of.
       Moreover, object much just now to        give any                    evidence which may

                               in
                                    a

                                        in
justify, or seem to justify, the press raising an outcry for putting Sand

hurst, and military education  general, under the control of the House

of Commons. That body has great deal too much to do already
and the worst management possible for Sandhurst under military men
                                                                                      It

                                                                                           is
                                                                                                   ;
would be better, and more practical, than management by a House of

Commons, who would make the subject party question.                                       the
                                            a
duty of every soldier to preserve the army for the Queen, and not to leta

it  be pulled about hither and thither by body, the majority of which

will more and more dislike, and long to abolish, the army, as an organ

of authority and central order.                  is                    1. Either to make  it
   " What should be done with Sandhurst                                                       a
                                                     :

mere finishing college, for one year, for young men who have already

been through public schools, and have there learnt self-government, by

                 Suggestions for Sandhurst.    273

having got into the fifth or sixth forms, and to treat such young men

with the full liberty and confidence which they have at the universities.
This would be the best plan ; but failing that, Sandhurst should be turned
into a thorough public school, taking lads in at 13 or 14, or even 12,

and conducting their whole education till they enter the army. In either

case, all the teachers and other officers should be military men, who

should not be shelved by becoming Sandhurst professors, but have their

time there, which should not be more than five years, counted to them

as if they were with their regiments, and all such teachers should have

gon"eOtnhlryoutghhosetheladSstawffhCoolpleagses.ed through Sandhurst with honour should

go into the army by direct commission. Those who did not should be

turned into the world (as from other public schools), and not be allowed
to enter by purchase, as having already proved themselves incom

Ipet"enMt.uch as dislike any professional education, whether for the church,
or the army, or any other business, I think that this plan would be far

better than the present.

   "The chaplain, if he is to have any moral influence, should be always
a young man, a scholar, a gentleman, and an athletic genial man -- such

as can be found by dozens at the universities. And his post should be

Ionlyfor five or seven years, never a permanent and shelving one.
       should allow corporal punishment in the case of the younger
   "
boys ; but as military men would naturally dislike (as I do) to inflict
I
                                                                                                                           it,
should allow (as in several public schools) the prefects the power of the
cane, and in all things give them the same rights and powers as they

hold in public schools, and demand from them the same honour and

sense of public responsibility."

                 TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

" .... is I                                                  Eversley, September 10, 1868.
                 have been reading with great delight (and have lent my

curate, Harrison) your Lectures on Conscience,' for which thank you
very much indeed. Those which heard, gain more from, now that'a
                       ;          III
                                            I          aI

                                                                             T

                                                                 I
can ponder them over in print.     feel more and more that the root of

the matter in your view and am very glad to see that Rolleston

of Oxford, in an address he has just sent me, gives in his unqualified

adhesion to the doctrine that the I         the man, and has nothing to do

                                        is

with physiology at all. The present tendency of physiologists to deny

psychology and metaphysic, for the sake of making man function of
his own brain, which done by a psychology and metaphysic of their
                 is

       VOL. II.

274 diarles Kingsley.

own inventing, though they call it by a different name, must be com

I Ibated, or we shall all drift together into some sort of Comtism.
" am hard at work, for some time past, at Comte.                                       will not trouble

you yet with my opinions on him. A great deal of what he says is by
Ino means new to me, meanwhile, so that
                                                                    am not dazzled by      I

though at times                       difficult not to be cowed by his self-sufficient glib-          is, it,
I
               I it

                           ' is
                                     a
ness and cheerfully naive sophistry. But cannot but hope that my

love for natural science, and practice in inductive processes, may be of
                                                     aI

                                                                      a
                                                                       is

                                                                                    '
use to me in forming fair estimate of him on his own ground. As far

as have gone, suspect more and more that he not an inductive

(the only truly positive) philosopher, but mere systematizer and clas
sifier. As for the laws' on which he determines the evolution' of the

middle age and sixteenth century, they seem to me set of mere maxims
worthy of Polonius. His great discovery of the three stages of the

human mind don't believe at all, even though fetichism were the first
           '

              ' is I
                                        a
stage, which not proved. But of all this must talk to you.                                        hope
                                                     'I
to come up to Cambridge while next term for that very purpose, and

to lecture the whole of the Lent Term on these matters. My notion

to take your Kingdom of Christ,' Carlyle's French Revolution,' and

Bunsen's God in History,' and show the men how you all three hold

one view (under differences), and Comte and all who are on his side an

abs"olWutheelythedriffGeroednt   one.      me        understanding  to do this decently, or at
                                will give

all, another question but shall think of nothing else between now
    is

           I
                                              ;
                              I
and   then.  am quite well again, and as             busy           as the day         is  long.
                                                     from           Lisbon and           Bahia,
   "  We have had letters from Maurice                                                            full of

spirits and information, and are expecting daily one from Rio. He has

ere now, please God, reached his destination."

                                                                    EVERSLEY, Oet. 23, 1868.

" shall be in Cambridge for three or four days in the first week of
I is I
November. I      want much to have serious talk with you about Comte

               I
                                          is
                                                  a
and his school. My heart very full of as well as my head. The
                                                     it,
                                                                          is

                                                                                    ;
very air seems full of Comtism. Certainly the press                                        and how to

make head against the growing unbelief in any God worth calling a

God more than can see.
   " have read nearly the first volume of Bunsen's life, which has at

once elevated and humiliated me. But now Bunsen would be written

down by the whole press as mystic dreamer, not Tartuffe. We
                                                                    if

                                                                                 a

have had much pleasant talk about you at Broadlands, with its host and

hostess."

              Effeminacy of the Middle-Class.                                                                                   275

   On receiving a pamphlet from                      Sir Henry (then Mr.) Taylor
on crime and how to deal with                         addressed to Mr. Gladstone,

he writes
   :

                                                  it,

              TO HENRY TAYLOR, ESQ.

                                                                 Eversley, December 26, 1868.
   " have to thank you for your able and rational pamphlet.* How far
   I

                         a

                                  it
Mr. Gladstone will be able to act upon its suggestions            question by no
                                                                  is
means hopeful. As against any just and rational treatment of crime,  a

two influences are at work now.                                       '' I
                                                                            it I
   " 1. The effeminacy of the middle class, which never having in its life

felt bodily pain (unless has the toothache) looks on such pain as the
worst of all evils. My experience of the shopkeeping class (from which
juries are taken) will hardly coincide with yours. You seem, page 19,

to think them hardier and less dainty class than our own.         find that

even in the prime of youth they shrink from (and are often unable to
bear, from physical neglect of training) fatigue, danger, pain, which

would be considered as sport by an average public schoolboy.                                                                    think

that Mill and those of his school are aware of this, and look on with

disfavour and dread, as an instinct of that military class whom they
                                                       is '
would (whether justly or not) destroy; and that from the extreme left                                                           is '
of thought you would have heavy opposition on this ground, and alsoif a

because,                                                  more and more to the

   " 2. The tendency of their speculations

theory that man not responsible person, but result of all the cir
              is
                       it a
                              is

                                     ;
cumstances of his existence and that therefore anything or person

responsible for a crime,              the whole circumambient universe. Doubt

less, men who utterly believed this might be as Draconic towards human

beings, as towards wasps and snakes, exterminating the bad as failures

of nature, not as criminals. But the average folk, who only half believe

this theory, supplement by half belief in the human responsibility of
              is
                              it

                                  is
                                          a
a  criminal, a confusion which issues in this          :

   " The man  not responsible for his faults. They are to be imputed

to circumstance. But he responsible for, and therefore to be valued

solely by, his virtues. They are to be imputed to himself. An ethical

theorem, which you may find largely illustrated in Dickens's books, at

least as regards the lower and middle classes.
   " Hence the tendency of the half-educated masses in England will be

(unless under panic) toward an irrational and sentimental leniency.

                          On Crime and its Punishment.
              *
                                                                                                        T
                                                                                                                             2

276 Charles Kingsley.

"As for corporal punishment; after having long objected to even
                                                                                                   it,
                                                                                                      a
in the case of boys, have come round in the last ten years to full
                                   I
concurrence                            I
              with what you say about                                  your pamphlet.*
   " On one                                                            it
              point alone hesitate to agree with you. Direct legislation   in
                                                                                              it
against drunkenness, as such, will be very difficult to work fairly, because

drunkenness      is  so very undefined and gradual a state. Where the

drunkard has committed breach of the peace, or used language likely
                                   a

to provoke the same, the course would be clear. But short of that,
                                                                                                   5,
fear lest the policeman would become the judge of who was drunk and
                                                                                                        is I
who sober; power which would involve the chance of terrible extortion
              a

of money from monied men. On the other hand, seems clear to me

that any person convicted repeatedly of being drunk and disorderly, a

fit subject for penal servitude."

                                                                                                  January 1868.

   " am sorry but pleased. Sorry that you should have taken the
trouble to write me second letter, after first one, which was all and
it     I                                                               a
                     :
   II                                                                      I
                    a
                          a                                                            a
more than had right to wish for glad that see your handwriting a
                                                                    ;

second time and that your second letter contains kind word from Mrs.
              ;

Taylor, to whom       pray remember me.                                attracting the attention which
   " am glad to      hear that your pamphlet                           is

                                                                          I
deserves. Believe me you are one whom regard with deep respect

and admiration, and your opinion will always, in any and every matter,

have great weight with me. In these confused days, one takes refuge

more and more with those who, in addition to cultivated minds, keep

their chivalry and old-fashioned principle."

   He made at this time the personal acquaintance of Mr. Henry
Dunn, of Blackheath, author of several very suggestive works
that had interested him deeply,! and had the pleasure of
receiving him at the Rectory. Mr. Dunn thus recalls their

meeting

   " have very lively and most pleasant recollection of my visit to

Eversley. Especially do remember with abiding interest conversation
  had with your husband during somewhat lengthened walk. We had
I                                                                                                 a
    I                                                                                                             is

                          :

                         a

                             I

                                                                 a

* In case of boys, however, he objected to flogging for any offences, except bully

ing and cruelty, believing that in boys, as well as in little children, falsehood often

the  re"suDltesotifntyheoffetahre  of corporal punishment.                                         " The Kingdom
                                    Human Race," "On the
+                                                                      Study  of  the     Bible,"

of God," &c.

                         diarity and Tolerance.    277

been speaking of the evangelical party in the Church of England, and of

the unhappy tendency sometimes manifested by their writers to revile

those who differ from them, when Mr. Kingsley, as if glad of the oppor

tunity, enlarged on their many excellencies, and on the good they had

been permitted to accomplish. There was a generosity of tone in all that

he said which greatly excited my admiration. Recollecting how often he

had himself received injuries in that quarter, I felt afresh the beauty and

force of the apostle's words ' not rendering railing for railing, but con

trariwise blessing.' Passing on we came in sight of a poor labouring man
employed in field work, to whom Mr. Kingsley called my attention, and

then said, 'he is one of my dissenting parishioners, a Baptist and a high
Calvinist. He is ignorant and often mistaken in his interpretations of

IScripture, but honour him. He is a good man, well acquainted with

his Bible, and conscientiously living according    to the light he has. Why
                     ?'                            over a poor, uninstructed,
should we   quarrel      all assumed  superiority
           absence   of
   " This

and perhaps conceited man, and the glad recognition of good in a class

who are often provoking, was to me a very instructive example. Some

further exchange of thought on the lessons God teaches us through

humiliations occasioned by the remembrance of past sins and im

prudences brought our conversation to a close, and left on my mind some
Ivery salutary impressions.
                             felt that Mr. Kingsley's genius and varied

talent, his peculiar rapidity of thought, and the incessant excitement of

his mind, were blended with a spirituality far deeper than that of many

who, however devoted, are but too ready to sit in judgment on others,

and to censure whatever they cannot understand. It has often been

said that the best of a man is to be seen in his books. But it is not

always so. Admirable as those of Mr. Kingsley are, I, for one, on this

occasion, could not but feel that their writer had ' hidden life,' unexpressed

in his publications, which excelled them all."

                     TO SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                      EVERSLEY, December 30, 1868.

I" At last find time to sit down and answer at leisure your most kind
Ifletter.
           you knew the amount of work which has fallen on me lately,
Ifrom much sickness in the parish, and when was overwhelmed with
I Imore literary work than I could get through, you would excuse my
long silence.  need not say how glad am to find that you approve of
my plan of going out to the West Indies, and how grateful I am for

278 Charles Kings ley.

lectures, R. and I hope to sail on the 2nd of April,* and to pass some

six weeks in Trinidad. There is much chance that my host (Governor

Gordon, Lord Aberdeen's youngest son) and I shall be able to go on

(as he went last year) to Caraccas, on Humboldt's track, and visit the
famous Guacharo caves. Meanwhile, our hope is that Maurice will be

Iable to join us, and prospect with me for land in Trinidad, and am

anxious that he should settle under the British flag, and not amid ruffians

                   like the               Spaniards,t under a government
                   morals
I(as he describes them)      Argentine    faith. There are, I am assured
                                have no
in whose stability and

by Mr. Gordon, good government lands in Trinidad to be had at nominal

rents, and a great future prospect of English colonization in the Cumana
district of Venezuela, on the opposite shore of the Gulf of Paria. In any

case, the lad will bring up to us, for transmission home, the insects, &c.,

which he is collecting in Entre Rios, and we three shall do our best to

collect in Trinidad. Newton, John Clark, and Crotch are going to give

us all needful hints as to zoology, but to you I must come for botanical

Ihints. ' Griesbach's Flora ' know of, and shall of course be glad to

know more. Meanwhile, I am studying at odd hours, ' Lindley's Vege
table Kingdom,' for the general sketch of the families which I may be

likely to see. But the best book is De Verteuil's Trinidad (now rare),

which I hope to be able to show you this spring. It contains botanical

and zoological     catalogues (the birds   by Leoland, who  has  published a
large illustrated  work on the birds of                     can  only, for the
                                          Trinidad). But I
present, look out for what may be known, as all my time must go to pre

paring my Cambridge lectures.

   " Meanwhile, I look forward to learning much in conversation with
you, if you will allow me the privilege, and comfort myself with the
thought that I can read all the way to the West Indies, being a good

sailor. R., too, longs to be taught by you ; she is full of enthusiasm

for natural history, but I think butterflies and beetles are likely to be

her specialities, and she threatens (I trust she will not carry out the

threat) to come home loaded with live monkeys, ant-eaters, and parrots.
Some good skeletons at least must be got for the Cambridge Museum,

and if possible a collection of birds' skins.
   " And now, to thank you again for your letter, and to wish from us

all to Lady B. and to you all Christmas blessings."

* The voyage was postponed to December 2, so as to ensure the healthy season.
+ Tn Entre Rios, South America.

                         Ice-action on Dee-side.                    279

                         TO PROFESSOR GEIKIE.

                                        EVERSLEY, November 30, 1868.

   " Macmillan tells me, to my surprise and pleasure, that you wish to

Ihear from me as to what saw of ice-work on Dee-side this time last
year. Anything that I can say can be of very little use to you, but

here it I is,       or sketch ofit.
                   a saw corroborated your theory and no other.
   " All                                               (I           found the

                                                              a

                                                              I
mountains shaved off to one height Lochnagar not peak, but the
                                     ;

highest point of set of sloping ridges, from which presume) glaciers
                      a

had slipped downwards, and then worn out into cliffs and corries by

subsequent air-denudation. The whole Balmoral estate seemed scooped,

first by ice and then by rain and rivers, out of great plateau which hada
joined the top of Lochnagar. That this scooping was at first done by
                         aI
ice conclude, because found on the top of the Coile Hills (vide1
McGillivray) blocks of Lochnagar granite in streams between ice-polished
knobs of serpentine, about 700 feet high. Also at the Linn of Muic
found ice-worn rock in the waterfall, well distinguished from the water-
I                                                                       aI
       Iworn, denoting that at later period the valley of the Muic had still
carried its glacier to the Dee from the back of Lochnagar-- and

hundred similar cases.   will go over on the Ordnance map        a  good deal
                         I
   " When meet you                I

of ice-geography of this kind.       found no boulders which need have

been transported by icebergs, everywhere thousands which may have

come in an ice-sheet either from Lochnagar or the Cairngorms at the

valley-head. Morven, with its hornblende rocks, was scattered over

with granite blocks to within 300 feet of the summit, and all round it;

as the ice-sheet had been continuous over the top. As for the boulders
if

                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                             :
                                                                               I
in the silt of Dee, which seemed some 40 feet deep, they were of all

kinds, from the Cairngorm and Lochnagar ranges, and no water which

saw could have moved them thither. Ice had brought them water

rounded them after. The great moraine deposit was the Moor of Dinnett,

where three glaciers, one from Lochnagar, one from the Cairngorms by
Braemar, and one out of the great ice-hollow of Logie Coldstone, &c.,
under Morven (which ran over into the valley of the Don, as can prove

by the blocks on the slap between the two watersheds), had met. The

silt lies in circular pits, in banks, and in very strange forms of dry rubbish,

shot for miles of flat low moor from 50 -- 200 feet above the Dee, judging

by "theheayvee. much more to tell in detail, but all saw was explained by
I
                                                    I

your admirable little book."

280 Charles Kingsley.

In addition to the Penny Readings in the parish, the Rector

had opened a reading-room for the men, for which books,
bagatelle-boards, and various games were provided. He made

it a self-governed club, and sanctioned the managers having in a

cask of good beer, each glass to be paid for on the spot, in hopes

it would prevent their going to the public-houses on their way

home. The men drew up their own rules under his eye ; and

for a winter or two it succeeded, but the scattered population

made difficulties, and the attraction of seven public-houses in a

parish of only 800 inhabitants, after a time  too strong for
the young men --the reading-room languished, and eventually

was shut up.

His parish cares were now shared by the able help of the

Rev. William Harrison, who for six years carried out all his

plans in church and parish with an earnest devotedness which

won him the love and reverence of the people of Eversley, while

it lifted a heavy burden from his Rector's mind, and gave him

the intimate companionship he needed in their joint labours.

For Mr. Harrison thoroughly understood him, and was one with

whom, notwithstanding their disparity in age, he could take

sweet and bitter counsel, according to the mood and circum

stances of the moment, and open his heart on all subjects, from

theology and the great social questions which were so inter

woven with his religious faith, to lighter ones of art and litera

ture ; in whose hands too he could leave the parish and his

pulpit with peace of mind during his residences at Chester from

1870 to 1873. Mr. Harrison soon followed him to Westminster
as Minor Canon, and was with him in his last failing months, in

his great sorrow, and on his death-bed. His own words will

best show the deep love he bore him.

  I" Soon after entered upon my duties as curate at Eversley, in May,

1868, old parishioners, who could recall the days prior to Mr. Kingsley's
residence among them, began to tell me of the many great reforms he
had effected in the parish in the years during which he had worked there.

I do not think that the majority of his people ever fully understood that

their rector's words were eagerly listened for in the outside world, and
that his name was known far and wide. For these things never affected

his manner towards them. They loved him emphatically for himself :

The Rector in his Parish.  281

for what he was, and had been to them. They loved him because he
was always the same-- earnest, laborious, tender-hearted; chivalrous to
every woman ; gentle to every child ; true to every man ; ready for, and
vigorous in every good work ; stern only towards vice and selfishness ;
the first to rejoice in the success of the strong and healthy, and the first

to hasten to the bedside of the sick and dying.
   " He knew his people intimately : their proper callings, tastes, failings,

and virtues. He was interested, as a matter of fact, and not from the

mere desire to please, in the occupations of everyone, and had the right

word for each and all. Men at once felt at ease with him, because there
was such unmistakable ring of sincerity, such evident understanding of

their wants, and such real acquaintance and sympathy with what they
were thinking and doing in all that he said. The poor could tell him

freely what they felt and what they wanted, seeing at once that he knew

more about them than men of his social standing generally know. At

the same time there was a natural stateliness in his bearing which pre
cluded the possibility of undue familiarity in any one towards him. He
is too frequently misunderstood to have been a mere clerical 'Tom
Thurnall ' ; a character which he has drawn with great skill, and with
which certainly he had many points of sympathy. That he was
unfettered by conventional modes of thought and speech, and exhibited
at moments a certain element of fierceness, with a detestation of all cant

Iand unmanliness, cannot be denied. But there was, when knew him,

a lofty courtesy and abiding seriousness about him, in his very look and
appearance, and in all he said and did, which marked him out from
other men, and secured to him at all times the respectful attention and

Ireverence alike of friends and strangers. ' am nothing,' he once said

to me, ' if not a Priest.'
   " I think that the tenderness of his nature has never been sufficiently

dwelt upon. In his warm and manful love for physical strength, and

for capability of any kind, his imaginative forbearance toward dulness

 and weakness has, as it seems to me, been sometimes lost sight of.

 Indeed, even towards wrong-doing and sin, although terribly stern in
 their presence, he was merciful in an unusual degree. He would often

Isay, after sternly rebuking some grave offender, ' Poor fellow ! daresay
if I had been in his place I should have done much worse.'

    " It is almost needless to say that every natural object, from the stones

 beneath his feet, to the clouds above his head, possessed a peculiar and

never-failing interest for him. As he strode through the heather, across
 his well-beloved moors, he would dilate on all he saw and heard in his
 vigorous and poetic way. Nature appealed to him from many diverse

282 Charles Kingsley.

and abstruse thoughts which a landscape might suggest, but he could
find all an artist's contentment and pleasure in the mere beauty of its forms
and colours. He had retained the freshness of boyhood; and ap

proached and noted everything with delight. It was refreshing to see

how much enjoyment he could extract from things which most men

would never perceive or notice ; with what untiring and reverent perse
verance he would seek to know their raison d'etre ; and with what a glow

and   glory his fruitful imagination clothed  everything.        objects  at the
                                              investing natural
   "  He certainly possessed the power of

right moment with his own thought, either for joy or pathos, in a most

striking manner. IThus recollect on one occasion (amongst the Welsh

mountains) the eagerness with which he knelt down by the side of a
trinkling waterfall, and said in a whisper of delight, 'Listen to the

Ifairy bells ? ' And thus, again, recall with tender sorrow an incident

that occurred in one of the last walks he ever took, on those dark winter

days which preceded his own illness, and when a great and overwhelm

ing sorrow was hanging over him. We were passing along one of

the Eversley lanes. Suddenly we came on a large tree, newly cut down,
lying by the roadside. He stopped, and looked at it for a moment

or so, and then, bursting into tears, exclaimed, ' I have known that tree
Iever since came into the parish ! '

   " The Eversley Sunday was very characteristic of Mr. Kingsley. It

was not to him far above the level of every other day, but then his every

other day was far above the ordinarily accepted level. One thing was

specially observable aboutif        the absence of all artificial solemnity of

manner, and exceptional restraints of speech and conduct. Whateverit,

the day might be he was emphatically always the same. He would chat

with his people in the churchyard before service as freely and as

humorously as he would have done in field or cottage. The same

vivid untiring interest in nature which has made his rambles by the chalk

streams of England, and through the high woods of Trinidad, source
                                                                   a

of perpetual enjoyment to his readers, would flash out from him the very

moment he left church, anything unusual or beautiful attracted his

attention.

   " Yet during service his manner was always impressive and at times,
as during the celebration of Holy Communion -- until the recent Judg
ment he always consecrated in the Eastward Position -- rose into
                                                     It                   a

reverence that was most striking and remarkable.              ;
                                                               it
                                                     was not the reve

rence of a School. It was evidently the impulse of the moment, and

being so, was not precise and systematic Indeed, his individuality

came out involuntarily at unexpected moments,  in    way that occasionally
                                                  a

was startling to those who did not know him, and amusing to those who

                                   Sundays at Eversley.                      283

did. One Sunday morning, for instance, in passing from the altar to the

pulpit he disappeared, and we discovered that he was searching for

something on the ground, which when found was carried to the vestry.

Subsequently it came out that he was assisting a lame butterfly, which

by its beauty had attracted his attention, and which was in great danger

of being trodden on. There was nothing incongruous, nothing of the

nature of an effort to him, in turning from the gravest thoughts and

duties to the simplest acts of kindness, and observation of everything
around him. ' He prayeth best who loveth best all creatures great and

small.'

   " Many a heart will cherish through life dear memories of the Eversley
sermons. It was well that Chester and Westminster should grow familiar
with the tones of his voice before they were silenced for ever. It was

well that men and women, among whom his name had been a household

word, should be able, Sunday after Sunday, to come in crowds to listen

to his burning words, in a place befitting his genius, and his message to

them. But to my mind he was never heard to greater advantage than in
Ihis own village pulpit.
                                            have sometimes been so moved by what he
Ithen said, that could scarcely restrain myself from calling out, as he

poured forth words now exquisitely sad and tender, now grand and

heroic ; with an insight into character, a knowledge of the world, and a

sus"taDinoeudbtleelsosqutehnecree  which,   each in its    own way, were     matchless.
                                   is more  or less truth  in the assertion  that Mr. Kingsley

was a Broad Churchman. But assuredly in no party sense ; and the

Ionly time ever heard him approach to anything like an exact defi

nition of his position, he described himself as ' an old-fashioned High

Churchman.' As in his earlier days, so in his latest, he was the devoted

admirer and friend of Professor Maurice, of whom he used touchingly

to speak as ' my master.' It was his pride to belong to the Church of
England, ' as by law established' ;-- he was never tired of quoting the

words, nor of referring to the Prayer Book on all disputed points. I

have never known any one speak more emphatically and constantly of

the value of the Creeds, and the efficacy of the Sacraments, to which he
Ialluded in almost every sermon
                                            heard him preach. But perhaps

the proem of ' The Saint's Tragedy,' ' Wake again, Teutonic Father-

Ages,' is as true and beautiful an index of his religious position as can

be found. The two most distinctive features of his religious teaching

Iwere, think, that the world is God's world, and not the Devil's, and

that manliness is entirely compatible with godliness. Yet, whilst his

name will indissolubly be associated with the latter doctrine, it must not

be supposed that he was lacking in gentleness and delicate sympathy.

284 Charles Kingsley.

increased as life advanced, and which enabled him to speak with a

peculiar power of consolation to the sad and suffering, both in private

and from the pulpit. With Puritanism he had little sympathy : with

Ritualism none. The former was to his rich poetic imagination and

warm chivalrous nature ludicrously defective as a theory of life. The

latter was, in his opinion, too nearly allied in spirit to Romanism ever

Ito gain his support or sanction in any way : and of Rome he was the

most uncompromising opponent have ever known. None of the great
parties in the Church -- it is an important fact -- could lay claim to him

exclusively. Intrepid fearlessness in the statement of his opinions ; a
dislike to be involved in the strife of tongues ; unexpected points of

sympathy with all the different  sections  ohof litnheessChanudrchch;urcahcreergtaiminenid;e--al
of his own, both with regard to  personal

these things always left him a free lance in the ecclesiastical field.
   " The opinion may be taken for what it is worth, but it certainly is

my opinion, that whilst Mr. Kingsley's convictions, during his career as

a clergyman, remained substantially the same, as may be proved by a
careful comparison of his later with his earlier writings, his belief in Re

vealed Truth deepened and increased, and his respect for the constituted

order of things in Church and State grew more and more assured. Yet

Inever, fancy, at any time did the great and terrible battle of faith and

doubt wholly cease within him. Probably few escape the stress of that

Iconflict now-a-days ; but think he knew more about it than most of

us. For his reverence for what is called ' consistency ' was very limited,

and his mind was always busy with the workings of those life-problems

which had left their mark upon his brow, and wrought into his very

manner a restless energy which foretold a shortened career. Neverthe

less there is no doubt but that the victory remained with faith.

   " Surely if ever room could be haunted by happy ghosts it would be

his study at Eversley, peopled as it must ever be with the bright creations

of his brain. There every book on the many crowded shelves looked at

him with almost human friendly eyes. And of books what were there
not ?-- from huge folios  of St. Augustine * to the
And of what would he                                 last treatise on fly-fishing.
                          not talk ?--classic myth    and mediaeval romance,

magic and modern science, metaphysics and poetry, West Indian
scenery and parish schools, politics and fairyland, &c, &c -- and of all
with vivid sympathy, keen flashes of humour, and oftentimes with much

pathos and profound knowledge. As he spoke he would constantly
verify his words. The book wanted -- he always knew exactly where, as
he said, it ' lived '--was pulled down with eager hands ; and he, flinging

* Once the property of John Sterling, and given to Mr. Kingsley by Thos. Carlyle.

XHP


                   The Rectory Study.                                285

himself back with lighted pipe into his hammock, would read, with

almost boylike zest, the passage he sought for and quickly found. It

was very impressive to observe how intensely he realized the words he
Iread.
        have seen him overcome with emotion as he turned the well-

thumbed pages of his Homer, or perused the tragic story of Sir Hum
phrey Gilbert in his beloved Hakluyt. Nor did the work of the study
even at such moments shut him in entirely, or make him forgetful of
what was going on outside. ' It's very pleasant,' he would say, opening

the door which led on to the lawn, and making a rush into the darkness,
' to see what is going on out here.' On one such occasion, a wild
autumnal night, after the thrilling recital of a Cornish shipwreck he
had once witnessed, and the memory of which the turbulence of the
night had conjured up, he suddenly cried, ' Come out ! come out ! '

We followed him into the garden, to be met by a rush of warm driving

rain before a south-westerly gale, which roared through the branches of
the neighbouring poplars. There he stood, unconscious of personal

discomfort, for a moment silent and absorbed in thought, and then

exclaimed in tones of intense enjoyment, ' What a night ! Drenching !

This is a night on which you young men can't think or talk too much

poe"trNye.'vertheless, with this appreciation of nature in her wilder moods,

Ihe possessed all a poet's love for her calmness. Indeed think that

anything that was savage in aspect was deeply alien to his mind ; inas

much as he could never forget the injurious powers that lurk in untamed

nature to destroy human life, which to him was more precious than any

inanimate beauty however sublime. Order and cultivation were of

Isupreme value in his eyes ; and, from a point of artistic beauty, believe

he would have preferred an English homestead to an Indian jungle.

Nay, even town scenes had a very great charm for him ; and one bright

summer day, after his return from America, whilst walking in Kensing

ton Gardens, he declared that he considered they were as beautiful as

anything he had seen in the New World. And again, looking at some

photographs of bleak and barren mountain ranges, he said to a young

painter who was admiring their grandeur -- 'Yes; paint them, and send

the picture to the Academy, and call  The Abomination of Desola
!
  '

               I

                                                            it,

                                                                                  '

                                                                       I
tion Yet, withal, the descriptions of scenery which are so profusely

scattered up and down his pages fully testify to his almost unique

powers of appreciating nature in all her aspects and circumstances.

sometimes wondered whether his scientific knowledge had not dulled

the splendour and dissipated much of the mystery that fill the world for
                   once ventured to hint something of the sort to him.
the poet's heart.

286 Charles Kings ley.

Iwas silent. Then he said, speaking slowly, -- ' Yes, yes ; know what

you mean; it is so. But there are times -- rare moments -- when nature

Ilooks   out at me again with  the old bride-look of earlier days.'
          should not venture   to speak of his home-life, unless permission
   "

had been granted me to do so, feeling that it is the most difficult-of

tasks to lift the veil from any family life without marring its sacred-

ness ; and that it is wholly beyond my power to preserve in words the

living ' sweetness and light ' which pervaded his household.  That
Ihousehold was indeed a revelation to me, as know it was to others ;--

so nobly planned and ordered, so earnest in its central depths, so

bright upon its surface. Many, now scattered far and wide, must

remember how picturesque the rectory itself was. Even a stranger

passing by would have stopped to look at the pleasant ivy-grown house,

with its long, sloping, dark roofs, its gables, its bow-windows open to

sun and air, and its quaint mixture of buildings, old and new. And

who among his friends will ever cease to remember the lawn, and glebe-

land sweeping upward towards the half-cultivated, half-wild copse ;

through which the hidden path, henceforth sacred ground to those who

loved him, leads up and out to Hartford Bridge Flats. Marked features

in the scene to them, and now widely known, were the grand Scotch firs

Ion the lawn, under which on summer evenings have seen many sweet

pictures, and heard many noble words, and the branches of which now

wave solemnly above his last resting-place. The little church, though

not remarkable for beauty in any way, seen here, through the bending
boughs of the firs, and over the laurel bank, through which the steps

led from the house, always made a pleasant corner in the picture in my
eyes, with its red brick tower, and four vanes atop, one of which per
sistently disagreed with its neighbours, -- 'a Nonconformist from its

birth,' as Mr. Kingsley humorously said.
   " Here -- in this beautiful home-scene, and truly ideal English Rectory

I-- was the fountain-head --as certainly think, and as he often said --of
Iall his strength and greatness. Indeed, great as knew him to be in
Ihis books, found him greater at his own fireside. Home was to him

the sweetest, the fairest, the most romantic thing in life ; and there all

that was best and brightest in him shone with steady and purest

lustre.                                                                      ·

I" would speak of his chivalry -- for I can call it nothing else --in daily

Ilife; a chivalry which clothed the most ordinary and commonplace
duties with freshness and pleasantness.  soon discovered that an

unswerving resolution at all times, and under all circumstances, to spare

himself no trouble, and to sustain life at a lofty level, was the motive
power of this chivalry :-- and those who conscientiously set themselves

          Heroism in Home-life.                          287

to this task best know the innumerable difficulties that beset it. No

fatigue was too great to make him forget the courtesy of less wearied
moments ; no business too engrossing to deprive him of his readiness

to show kindness and sympathy. To school himself to this code of

unfaltering, high, and noble living was truly one of the great works of

his life ; for the fulfilment of which he subjected himself to a rigorous

self-discipline --a self-discipline so constant that to many people, even of

noble temperament, it might appear . Quixotic. He would have liked
that word applied to him. There was much in him of that knightly

character which is heroic even to a fault ; and which, from time to time,
provokes the shafts of malice and ridicule from lesser men. That the

persistent fortitude by which he gained and sustained this temper was
one of the root-principles of his life was touchingly illustrated to me

Ione day, when, seeing him quit his work to busy himself in some trivial

matter for me, asked him not to trouble about it then and there, and

Ihe, turning on me, said with unusual warmth, ' Trouble ! don't talk to
me of that, or you will make me angry.  never allow myself to think

about it.'

  I" would speak of him as a friend. His ideal of friendship was very

full and noble, tenderer, perhaps, than most men's. ' A blessed thing it

Iis,' quote his own words, ' for any man or woman to have a friend ;

one human soul whom we can trust always ; who knows the best and

the worst of us, and who loves us, in spite of all our faults.' In spite
of all our faults ! it was not the least among the many fine traits of Mr.

Kingsley's character that he took his friends as he found them, and

loved them for what they really were, rather than for what he fancied or

wished them to be. In this, as in other aspects of his nature, the
beautiful boy-likeness was conspicuous. To the last he was ready to

meet and to make new friends, to love and to be beloved with the freshness
of youth. Indeed let me here mention that if there was anything at all
                                                         It was not
admirable in a person he was sure to see and appreciate
                                        a;

                                                  I
                                                        it.I

                                                                                                ;
that he was wanting in the critical faculty nothing escaped his notice

speech, manner, dress, features, bearing, all were observed, but in the

most kindly spirit, the good points alone were dwelt and commented

upon. People are better than we fancy, and have more in them than
'
  ;'
we fancy so he has said in one of his sermons, and so have heard

him say again and again in his daily life. And here must speak for a

moment, with the deepest gratitude and love, of the friendship he

bestowed on me, unwavering, helpful, exalting, tender, trustful. The

memories of that friendship are too many and too sacred to dilate upon.
Its sweetness and worth have made life new thing to me, but cannot

well be expressed words.in

288 Charles Kingsley.

I" Of the wonderful love of his home-life              must not, cannot speak.

It was the very lever of his life, the very soul of all his joy, the very

key-note of his being. He has told it all himself to those who have

ears to hear in every book he wrote, and to those who knew him well
his every look and every action told the fact yet more emphatically. It

Iwas the same boy-frankness which have before noted showing itself in
                                                                      their love. It
its very    perfection.    Some    men   take   pains   to  conceal   to me--and
seemed      his pride to  declare       How    often   has   he said
            a
               it

                         I it.

                                                                         it

                                                                      I
venture to record because know he would wish to be recorded --

that whatever he had done or achieved was due to the love that had

come to him at great crisis to guide and to strengthen and to glorify

his life."

                CHAPTER XXVI.

                                                   1869-1870.
                                                  Aged 50-- 51.

Resignation of Professorship-- Women's Suffrage Question-- Letters to
    Mr. Maurice, John Stuart Mill, Dr. Carpenter, Mr. Lionel Tolle-
     mache-- Canonry of Chester -- Social Science Meeting at Bristol --
     Letter from Dr. E. Blackwell -- Medical Education for Women
     -- West Indian Voyage-- Letters from Trinidad --Return Home--
     Eversley a Changed Place -- Flying Columns -- Heath Fires --The
     Bramo Somaj -- Letters to Sir C. Bunbury -- Mr. W. H. Callcott --
     First Residence at Chester -- Botanical Class -- Field Lectures --
     Human Soot -- Women's Suffrage -- Letters on Botany -- Franco-
     Prussian War-- Wallace on Natural Selection -- Matthew Arnold
     and Hellenism -- Babel and Assyrian Cities.

      Vol. li.

" BUT let my due feet never fail

  To walk the studious cloister's pale,
  And love the high embowered roof
  With antique pillars massy proof,
  And storied windows richly dight

   Casting a dim religious light :

   There let the pealing organ blow
  To the full-voiced choir below

  In service high and anthems clear,
  As may with sweetness, through mine ear

   Dissolve me into ecstasies

  And bring all Heaven before mine eyes."
                                                          MILTON.

                    CHAPTER XXVI.

   THE year 1869, which closed his professorial work at Cambridge,
saw the beginning of a new chapter of his life as Canon of

Chester. It was a year of severe intellectual work and great

activity. He decided to resign the Professorship, and gave his
last series of lectures at Cambridge. He completed his volume on
the Hermits for the Sunday Library course. The " Lessons on
Earth Lore for Children, Madam How and Lady Why,"
which had been coming out in " Good Words for the Young,"
was published as a volume. He wrote an article in " Macmillan's
Magazine," on Women and Politics, to help the question which
was just then brought into discussion. He attended the first
" Woman's Suffrage " Meeting in London with Mr. J. Stuart Mill.
He gave two lectures* on "Thrift" and "Breath" in a course for
ladies, at Winchester, arranged by Mrs. C. A. Johns, the wife of
his old friend and tutor. He made speeches at various Industrial
and Mechanics' Institutions in the diocese. He joined the Edu
cation League, and was elected President of the Education Sec
tion of the Social Science Congress at Bristol. He lectured on
Natural Science to the boys of Wellington College and Clifton
College. His parish prospered ; the Penny Readings and enter
tainments for the labourers, greatly helped by the musical
talent of his curate, became more popular, once, as many as
one hundred and fifty of his parishioners being present at the
National School. The resignation of his professorial work
relieving his mind from a heavy load of responsibility, and the
prospect of a voyage to the West Indies, on the invitation of
Sir Arthur Gordon, then Governor of Trinidad, fulfilling one
of the dreams of his life, all helped to carry him through the
active labours and anxieties of the year.

                      * Since published in " Health and Education."

                                                                                                                                          u2

292 Charles Kingsley.

                      TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                                                  Eversley, January 16, 1869.

  " Your letter comforted me, for I had heard you were ill. You must
Irest and take care of yourself, and must not do (as hear you do) other

people's work whenever you are asked. You have enough, and too

much to do of your own. And either, 1. You are necessary to Provi
dence ; and then you have no right to kill yourself by overwork ; or,

2. You are not necessary to Providence ; and then you have no need

to kill yourself by overwork. I put that dilemma to you in all serious
ness, and leave you to escape it if you can. It was a real pleasure to

me to hear from you that you had read my clumsy and silly little

papers.* I wished to teach children --my own especially -- that the

knowledge of nature ought to make them reverence and trust God

more, and not less (as our new lights inform us).  And they are

meant more as prolegomena to natural theology, than as really scien

Itific papers, though the facts in them are (I believe) true enough. But

    know very little about these matters, and cannot keep myself ' au

courant' of new discoveries, save somewhat in geology, and even in

Ithat am no mineralogist, and palaeontologist. Science is grown too

vast   for  any one   head.      staying  here,  making themselves     very de
      The   Powles's  have been
   "

lightful, and their visit has ended in his offering to take on a lease a
Inew house in the parish. May it so happen !
                                                   leave you to conceive

the pleasure and comfort their presence here would be to us.
" We are going soon to Cambridge. At first we stay at Barton with
Ithe Bunburys,        coming to and fro for my lectures. R. and I now
mean to sail, if God permits (for one must say that very seriously in
such a case), by the April mail ; but our plans may alter. Ah ! that

you were coming too, and could be made to forget everything for a

while, save flowers and skies and the mere sensation of warmth, the

finest medicine in the world !

   " What you say about not basing morality on psychology I am most
thankful for. I seem to get a vista of a great truth far away. Far

Iaway enough from me, Heaven knows. But this I know : that want
Ito re-consider many things, and must have time to do it; that should

like to devote the next twenty years to silence, thought, and, above

all, prayer, without which no spiritcan breathe."

His concluding lectures at Cambridge were crowded ; the

            "Madam Mow and Lady Why," dedicated to his son Grenville.

   Resignation of Regius Professorship.                      293

last one was on Comte.         A young undergraduate thus refers

to it:

  I" Itake this opportunity of telling you-- have often wished to do --
Ithat the good you have done me, and have no doubt many others, by

your English lectures, is incalculable. Your whole series last term, and

especially the grand concluding one on Comte, have made an impression

just at the moment when it was needed ; and I hope you may go on

lecturing for many years on the same or similar subjects, and thereby put

into the minds of many young men the same living belief in a living God

that David had ; and so do an infinite good, just where it is wanted, to

this generation, and, through  to all others."
                               ; I it,
   TO THE MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE.I

                                                      April  1,1869.

                                                                    I
" am bound, after your kind advice and sympathy in the matter of
I

the professorship * (which am not likely to forget), to tell you that
                    it                                at the end of the
have obtained leave from the Queen to resign    I it
                      I
academic year, and have told Mr. Gladstone as much, and had aI

very kind reply from him. My brains, as well as my purse, rendered

this step necessary.  worked eight or nine months hard for the

course of twelve lectures which gave last term, and was half-witted

by the time they were delivered and as have to provide for children
                                        II
growing up, owe       to them not to waste time (which  ismoney) as
   a
well as brain, in doing what others can do better. Only let meIa
     I
       I                                                          I
express hope, that in giving up this appointment do not give up the

friendships (especially yours) which have found at Cambridge, place

on which shall ever look with hearty affection; and that when

come up (which  I   shall do as often as    can find an excuse) may

come and see you and Mrs. Thompson."

   He left Cambridge with feelings of deep gratitude to men of alla

classes in the University, having received nothing but kindness                     ;

on all sides from the authorities down to the undergraduates
dissatisfied only with his own work, but thankful to have had his
knowledge of men, especially young men, enlarged by the
experience of the last nine years, and glad to have more time
from henceforth to devote to physical science. In letter to

   · Two years before, when he offered to resign, and Dr. Thompson wished him to
retain the office.

294 Charles Kingsley.

Dr. W. B. Carpenter, who had sent him a scientific pamphlet,
he expresses his hopes for the future :

                                                                               EVERSLEY, May 19, 1869.

   " Many thanks for your letter, and for the excellent lecture accom
panying it. The paragraph at the end with the quotation from Schiller

I(new to me) is admirable, and expresses the spirit in which I, trust, as

well as you, have tried to search for Truth, careless, with Socrates, whither

the ' Logos ' led us, provided only we followed honestly in its track. In

tending henceforth to devote myself to my first love, physical science,

as far as is compatible with my parish duties, I look earnestly for help

and teaching to those who, like you, have been able to carry on through
life a study which in my case has been interrupted for many years."

      TO JOHN STUART MILL, ESQ.

                                                                                          EVERSLEY, 'June 3, 1869.

  " I have had the honour of receiving ' from the author ' your book on

Ithe ' Subjection of Woman.' It is not for me to compliment you.

shall only therefore say, in thanking you for
    I                                                that  seems to me
         a
                                                                   ;

                                                                                 it,
                                                                                     it
                                                                                                                        is,

                                                                                           It
unanswerable and exhaustive, and certain, from its moderation as well

as from its boldness, to do good service in this good cause.                                                                 has

been  deep pleasure to me to find you, in many passages in which

you treat of what marriage ought to be, and what marriage                                                                  corro

borating opinions which have been for more than twenty-five years, the

guides and safeguards of my own best life.
    " shall continue to labour, according to my small ability, in the

direction which you point out and all the more hopefully because

your book has cleared and arranged much in my mind which was con

fused and doubtful."

" Your kind letter gave me much pleasure.      EVERSLEY, June 17, 1869.

                                                     shall certainly attend
I
                 I

                            I

                                                             in

                                                is I
                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                     '
the meeting; and need not say, that to pass a night under your

roof will be an honour which shall  most gratefully  accept.   of  woman.
   " wish much to speak with you     on the whole    question

In five and twenty years my ruling idea has been that which my friend

Huxley has lately set forth as common to him and Comte that the

reconstruction of society on a scientific basis not only possible, but

the only political object much worth striving  for.' One of the first ques
                                               plain English, nature and
tions naturally was, What does science --

                   Justice to Ireland.                         295

Ifact (which take to be the acted will of God) -- say about woman, and
Iher relation to man? And
                                 have arrived at certain conclusions
Ithereon,
Ito keep
which (in          the face  of British  envaernrowhnaevses)founhdaveoufot uwnhdatitIwsieseesmt
to myself.           That
                               should
Ito know without the guidance of a woman, and that woman my wife,

dare not assert : but many years of wedded happiness have seemed

to show me that our common conclusions were accordant with the

Ilaws of things, sufficiently to bring their own blessing with them.

beg you therefore to do me the honour of looking on me, though (I

trust) a Christian and a clergyman, as completely emancipated from
those prejudices which have been engrained into the public mind by

the traditions of the monastic or canon law about women, and open to

any teaching which has for its purpose the doing woman justice in

every respect. As for speaking at the meeting, my doing so will depend

very much on whether there will be, or will not be, newspaper reporters
                   I feel a chivalrous dislike of letting this subject be
in the room.
lowered in print, and of seeing pearls cast before swine --with the usual

result.
   " Mrs. Kingsley begs me to add the expression of her respect for you.

Her opinion has long been that this movement must be furthered

rather by men than by the women themselves."

   This visit was one of great interest to Mr. Kingsley. He
was as much struck with Mr. Mill's courtesy as with his vast
learning--he had the manners of the old school, he said.

  " When I look    at his cold, clear-cut   face," he remarked to Dr. Car
penter, " I think  there is a whole hell   beneath him, of which he knows

nothing, and so there may be a whole heaven above him. . . ."

                   TO REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                 Dereen, Kenmare, August 8, 1869.

I" Your letter followed me hither, whither    and R  have wan

dered, to see the Froudes, and pretend to catch salmon which will not

be caught, amid such a neglected paradise of mountain, sea, river, lake,

island, as makes my heart sad. Justice to Ireland is indeed wanted.

But the justice would be, to live among the people, civilize them, give

them leases, let them vote for Satan if they liked ; only bring personal

Iflove and care to bear on them. Treat them as peasantry are treated in
England, and all would be well.          the system which I see in Ireland

296 Charles Kingsley.

of actually preventing civilization and wealth, for fear of increasing

population, goes on fifty or twenty-five years more, the Irish landlords
will have to alter considerably."

               TO LIONEL TOLLEMACHE, ESQ.

                                                                                                     June, 1869.
" Many thanks for the ' Fortnightly,' and your very amusing and well-
Iwritten article on Egotism.     trust it will not corrupt me ; for I dread

any egotism on my own part, as the root which may blossom out into
the most unexpected forms of actual wrong-saying and doing. I sup
Ifpose I am too great a fool to be trusted to talk about myself.
                                                                                                     so, it
Iis all the better that should keep the fact in mind. Are you aware
that when ' Pepys's Diary ' was fished out of our Pepysian library at

Magdalene, much of it was found to be so dirty, that the editors had to

omit it ? He was a foul-minded old dog. Our only record of him

           II                                                                                       Mr. Pepys, having
                    in ye
                             yc
                                  is
                                    is
                                              : iIs,
(beside the curious library he left us)                                            believe  :
                                                                                                 '

been found by proctors last night disguised in liquor, was admonished

not to offend  like again.'
" The whole number very valuable, especially so to me, for Huxley's
           don't know whether you take an interest in that matter. In
article.*

my opinion Huxley  thoroughly right at least he interprets Comte

exactly as have been in the habit of interpreting him."

   On the 3th of August Mr. Kingsley received the following
letter from Mr. Gladstone
I
                     1

                              if
                                                                 :

                                              it
                                                       is

                                      I
                                          I
" have much pleasure in proposing to you that you should accept

the Canonry of Chester, vacated by the appointment of Dr. Moberly to

the See of Salisbury, and you agree, need not impose on you any

obligation of even temporary secrecy, as know that the act will be

'very agreeable to her Majesty.  under an energetic Dean, and nave
     The cathedral of Chester

services are now carried on in with excellent effect."

   The canonry was gratefully accepted, and many were the con
gratulations received.

sta*tedOnbythheimSsceielfn, tibfiecinAgsp"eCctasthooflicPoosrigtiavnisimza,tioinn  winch he speaks   of Comte's Ideal, as
                                                                                   without Catholic  doctrine, or in other

words, Catholicism minus Christianity." Fortnightly Review, New Series, No. xxx.,

p. 657.

                   Social Science Congress.                                                                               297

                                                                    EVersley, August 20, 1869.

   " It is very kind," said Mr. Kingsley to his friend and neighbour
Mr. Raikes Currie, " of you to congratulate me thus ; but kindness

is your element, and a very wholesome element it         II                for both parties
                                                                         is,
                                                                                     ;a
                                                                                    I
concerned in it. You never were more right than when you said

that should not like to be bishop                        And even deanery
I                  it
     II
                           :I a
           I
shrink from; because would take me away from Eversley the home

to which was ordained, where came when was married, and which

intend shall be my last home for go where will in this hard-working

world, shall take care to get my last sleep in Eversley church- yard."

Bishop Wilberforce (then of Oxford) wrote to him at once --
                                                                                                                          :

" am quite certain of your great powers being used on the side of
I

         it,
that Truth which so many, as seems to me, in their very longing to
                             it

sup"poMrat y    distrust and dishonour.              of  usefulness,  and  a  happy ending
              God give you many years

of your highly vital life."

In October he went to Bristol to take his place in the Social

Science Congress, as President of the Educational Section, at
                                                         valuable paper on " How
which Mr. Henry de Bunsen read
I
              ?
                                a
                                                                                     :
                                                                a

                                                                                                                       a
can the State best help in the Education of the Working

Classes " and in letter to his mother the baroness, thus

speaks of meeting Mr. Kingsley

" was at the Clifton College, the new public school, and                                                                  most

flourishing one, having already, though only in its fifth year, three
hundred and sixty boys, and was the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Perceval,

the head master. Charles Kingsley and his wife were there. Kingsley

was most hearty and charming, especially when got used to his stam
                                                         I
                                                                I

                                                                            it

                                                                             LI
...mering speech (which entirely disappears when he has to speak or read
in public).       To me was time full of interest.                         drove Kingsley,
it is
     a

         L

                         is
                                a

                                 it
                                                  a
...»on Wednesday afternoon, between two thunderstorms, to Blaise Castle.
Aunt               was delighted with our visit. Kingsley was, must

say, charming. He  great lover of art, and understands thoroughly.

He still greater lover of trees and Nature, and told Aunt

that was worth while coming the whole way from Eversley to see her

....two wonderful trees from Japan, the Salisburia, and the Sophora
Japonica.         Wednesday was the opening address of the Congress

from Sir Stafford Northcote. We dined one night at the Lewis Frys',

where Sir was staying, and he and Kingsley told charming DevonS.

298 Charles Kingsley.

shire stories in turn ! It was a wonderful treat, for both could imitate

the language and tone exactly. On Thursday we had a most interesting

discussion in the Education Department, as to how far it would be
possible to have ' religious instruction,' without entering into ' dogmatic

differences,' and therefore having schools admitting every denomination,

and leaving to parents and ministers the specific instruction in their

several denominations. On Friday, Mr. Kingsley gave us as stirring

an address on education (in the highest and best and most compre
hensive sense of the word), female and male, compulsory and for all

classes, as ever was given. Some nine hundred people (of intelligent
classes --no working classes) were present ; and he electrified his audience
by his earnestness and liberality, praising the efforts, not only of all
ministers of religion, and of societies like the ' National,' and ' British

and Foreign,' but also of the Society of Friends, as being foremost in

education

   " On Saturday morning, at nine o'clock, we had a great treat in

hearing an address from Mr. Kingsley to the three hundred and sixty
boys of Clifton College School, chiefly on study combined with scientific

observation in other branches of learning ; so as to give them some

thing to do in their spare hours, and to carry on in their holidays, in

making collections of all kinds (avoiding cruelty to birds, and wholesale

destruction of nests and eggs), and that not for themselves, but for

a general museum belonging to their school. This would avoid much

destruction.  ' Eyes and no Eyes,' played a prominent part in the

address.

  A few extracts from Mr. Kingsley's Inaugural Address are

added :

  I" There are those -- and among them men for whom have the most

profound respect --who are of opinion that the proper educators of

children are the clergy. IBut doubt whether, even in an ideal and

perfect state, the whole education of the young, or even the whole con

trol over ought to be entrusted even to an ideal and perfect clergy.
          it,
                                         it
                                                  is

                                        I (I
                                                                        is
                                                                                                                              ;;
One function, doubtless, of a clergy  am speaking of no particular

denomination, but of any clergy whatsoever)  to educate children in

divine things; in their spiritual relations to God and to their fellow-

men. But more than that,  not, think, their duty to teach

though, of course, whatever beside they are competent to teach, they

have as much right to teach as any other citizens have. The circum

stances which threw, for several centuries, education throughout Europe

into the hands of the mediaeval clergy, were altogether exceptional

          The Clergy and Education.                                    299

mere circumstances, which do not give any rule as to the general duties
of a clerical order. The mediaeval clergy, originally Romans and Greeks,

and not Germans and Norsemen, were then the representatives, not of

Christianity alone, but of such ancient learning as had survived the

barbarian invasions. From them alone learning was to be got ; and
they became, not by divine right, but by the necessity of facts, the

instructors in the Latin and Greek tongues, and in mathematics. But

for the last four hundred years the Latin and Greek tongues have been

as open to the laity as to the clergy ; mathematics have become rather

a lay than a clerical study, owing to their great development, which

requires a division of labour ; while other sciences have risen, and are

rapidly developing themselves, which require so great an amount of

special study that they cannot be taught by any clergy who also attend

to their spiritual functions. Thus, cessante ratione, cessavit lex ipsa ; and

the clergy are being relegated more and more, by the spread of secular

knowledge, to their peculiar, and more proper function, the teaching of

Ithin"gs  divine.           on  the special  control  over education,  which the
          look, therefore,

Iclergy have more or less exercised in Europe since the fifth century, as

an exceptional and temporary case ; and doubt whether in the ideal

state, in which all the citizens would have but one creed, the teaching

order and the priesthood should not be altogether distinct, saving of

course that the priesthood should always be the teachers of divine

things ; the interpreters, according to their light, of the will of God.

IBut still more ought this to be the case, think, when the citizens of a

state are of many different creeds. In that case, in proportion as the
different clergies control the secular instruction of the young, will the

Ination drift into that denominational system which must confess is to

my mind an evil ; an inevitable evil, it may be in some cases, but still

an evil to be escaped if possible by the wise man who loves his country.

For it must be always injurious to that internal unity, which is the great

strength of a state. Even where the different denominational schools
are filled by children of the same race, their separate training must
lead them to regard the children of other denominations as less their
fellow-citizens than the children of their own school --while where the

denominations are (as is the case in many countries) of different race

Ias well as creed, the consequences of separate instruction, are, believe,

simply disastrous. The different races and creeds will learn to regard

each other more and more as aliens, and the state will be divided more

and more into various indifferent, if not hostile imperia in imperio, whose

Ionly common bond will be more and more that lowest one of making

money out of each other. And here must be allowed to express on

300 Charles Kingsley.

my own part the pain and regret with which I regard those denomina

tional restrictions, which still shut out too many of her Majesty's sub

jects from many of the advantages of our higher schools, and our elder

Iuniversities. The consequences of those restrictions, have, believe,

been nothing but harmful, both to the excluders and the excluded ; and

I Itrust that may live to see the day when our ancient centres of

teaching shall be as free as the air and the sunlight, to every one who

calls himself a British citizen. It is the duty of the State then, I hold,

to educate all alike in those matters which are common to them as

citizens ; that;         in all secular matters, and in all matters also which

concern their duties to each other as denned by law. Those higher; is,
                  in
duties which the law cannot command or enforce, they must learn

elsewhere and the clergy of all denominations will find work enough,

and noble work enough, in teaching them. We shall have always work

enough in such times as these in teaching what no secular education

can ever teach                          diffusing common honesty, the knowledge of right

and wrong, and the old-fashioned fear of God as the punisher of those

who do ill, and the rewarder of those who do well                                 When,

therefore, the National Education League was started at Birmingham,

    for one, joined as the only method of obtaining what twenty-seven
I,                       it,
                            a
years' experience as parish clergyman had shown me to be necessary
-- compulsory attendance.* No one
                                                                 more alive than  am to the
                                                                 is
services which different great denominations and religious bodies have   it

rendered to education to the services of the British and Foreign                  it
                 ;
                                   ;                                                        ;
School Society of the National Society, and especially of that vener-
                                                                                     it I

                                                                                                        a it is

                                                                                                                                         a
* He had long seen and deplored the real hindrances to a complete scheme of

National Education, and in sermon in London some years before had spoken of them.
''
               is

                                                           a
Let me remind you very solemnly, that the present dearth of education in these

realms owing mainly to our unhappy religious dissensions; that                    the disputes,

not of unbelievers, but of Christians, which have made           impossible for our govern

ment to fulfil one of the first rights, one of the first duties, of any government in a

civilized country namely, to command, and to compel, every child in the realm to
    a
                      ;
receive proper education. Strange and sad that should be, yet so is. We have

been letting, we are letting still, year by year, thousands sink and drown in the slough

of heathendom and brutality, while we are debating learnedly whether raft, or boat,

or life-buoy, the legitimate instrument for saving them and future historians will
    a
                          is
                                    it
record with sorrow and wonder fact which will be patent to them, though the dusta
of controversy hides from our eyes-- even the fact that the hinderers of education in

these realms were to be found, not among the so-called sceptics, not among the so-

called infidels; but among those who believed that God came down from heaven, and

became man, and died on the cross, for every savage child in London. Compulsory
Government Education                    is,  by our own choice and determination, impossible." -- Sermon

on Toleration, at Christ Church, Marylebone, 1867. (Discipline and other Sermons.)

                           Voluntary or Compulsory ?                            301

able body, always foremost in all benevolent works, the Society of
Friends. He who does not feel that England owes a huge debt to
these splendid results of the voluntary principle, must be deeply igno
rant of her history for the last eighty years. But over and above what

these good people have done, does not much, too much, remain, which

they cannot do ; for the simple reason that those who need education

most, care for it least ; and that those who are unawakened to the

value of religion, are certain to be still less awakened to the value of

learning ?
" This defect seems to me to be inseparable from the voluntary sys
Item of education, however zealously and ably carried out.
                                                                            can only
I Ispeak of it as know it from experience : and what find in the country
districts is this. Even if we have a school in which every child in the

parish can receive a sound education, or at least the rudiments of one,

beside the civilising influence of intercourse with the ladies of the

parish ; and even          if,   as usually the case, the great majority availis

themselves thereof rationally and thankfully enough yet there always
                                                  a;
                                                       a

                                                              is a ;

                                                               iIf

                                                                                     a
                                                                                    a is

                                                                                                       a
a minority who cannot be made to attend regularly without threats,

fines, exclusion from charities, and so forth        process which transforms

the clergyman from minister of the gospel into judge and police
                           it
man and(a I       for one refuse to do policeman's worka  can get
;

policeman to do                for me. And some -- there  always remnant
beside -- small one, thank God) --but still remnant, who do not come
to school at all children not generally of the very poor and miserable,
                  ;

but mostly of able-bodied, reckless, profligate persons, who are perfectly

able to pay for their children's schooling sum probably double of whata
would be charged but who prefer exercising the indefeasible rights of
free-born Britons in spending their money in beer and fine clothes.:
Such inform the hapless parson (though they are nominally members of
the Church of England) that they see no good in schooling, care nothing

for him or his charities, and give him to understand that the sending

their children to his school           favour on their part which they do not
                     I

                                      is
                                            a

                                                                                                 ;

                                                            I is

                                                                                                                           a
see fit to grant him. How any voluntary system            to touch these

free-born Britons have not yet discovered and have come to
this Congress principally to listen with eagerness for some sketch of
plan which will touch them, and will prevent their children from not

merely growing up ignorant savages, but from contaminating (as they
do) the other children in the parish, too many of whom look with envy,
not with pity, on their fellows who can play in the lanes all day instead

of "goIinngthteo  school.     So much  for   the  agricultural districts.
                  towns    the broad   fact       that in every large town
                                             is,                            in  these

islands there are children to be counted by hundreds, often by thousands,

302 CJiarles Kingsley.

who go to no school at all, and who cannot, by any existing methods,

be got to school. Let me, to give a single example, call your attention

to the case of one town, Birmingham. There is no reason to suppose

that the denominational system has not been worked as earnestly and

ably in Birmingham as elsewhere. That there is benevolence enough

and energy enough in the town is proved by what the good folks of

Birmingham are doing at this moment. But it was found last year that

2 1,000 children out of 45,000, or nearly half the children in Birmingham,

wer"eNgorowwoinngdeur,p  in ignorance and idleness               a failure  of the voluntary
                         after so patent and terrible
system, if society went a step further, and organised -- as the only
hope --a National Education League, the main objects of which are :

To compel local authorities to find schooling for every child in

England and Wales ; to pay for such schooling out of local rates ; to

provide that the schools so prepared for shall be unsectarian and free,

without payment; and lastly, to compel by law the attendance of
                                                                 I question, from twenty-seven
children not otherwise educated

years' experience, whether it is really better to make the labouring

class pay school pence for the education of their children ; whether

the wisest method is not to make them pay school-rates as they do

poor-rates, and to open the schools free. My experience                     is            that as
                                                                                          is,
long as they pay, both the ignorant, the stupid, and the unwilling (and
       with them we have to deal) will persist in considering schooling as                   I

an article which they may buy or not, as they see fit, like beer or fine
it

     is
                                               ;
                                                       ;
clothes, or any luxury that they will persist in thinking, or pretending

to think, that they are doing the school-managers a favour, and putting

money into their pockets that they will persist in thinking, or pretend

ing to think, that they pay for the whole of their children's education,

and ignore the fact that three-fourths of the expense borne by others,

and that the only method to make them understand that educating

their children an indefeasible duty, which, as citizens, they owe to the
    ;:

            is
                 is

                    is
State itself, for them to be taxed by the State itself, and for the State

to say There your money's worth in the school. We ask no more
of you but your children shall go to school, or you shall be punished

by   the law.

    " But as   one       who  for  many                   years  advocated  the opposite  opinion,

have come here to learn, and not to teach, upon this important point.
All ask--not those who have studied National Education, but the
    I

                            :

                                                           is
general public-- to keep in mind                                 this broad, ugly, dangerous, dis
graceful fact There are now -- according to the computation of those
who ought to know-- about 1,280,000 children in this kingdom who

ought to be attending some elementary school or other, but who are not

                The Education League.                         303

-- 1,280,000 children growing up in ignorance, in a country which calls

itself civilised."

   He concludes by referring to the speech of Mr. Joseph Payne,
at Birmingham in 1865, in which he forcibly urged that the eyes
of children should be opened to the wonderful phenomena by
which they are surrounded in daily life, and which ask to be

examined and explained, to the very clods of earth on which

they stand.

I I I" To this, agree," he says, " but go further than this.  say, that

this alone can give us a sound foundation for any higher education

whatsoever. For if the higher education is not built on the knowledge
of Nature and Fact, which are, as Bacon says, the voice of God himself

revealed in things, you may train a generation of fanatics, bigots, dilet
tanti, pedants, mandarins, or other children of Prometheus, the d priori

dreamer : but you will never train your young people into children of

Epimetheus, the inductive and therefore truly practical philosopher, into

men and women who, taking their stand on Nature and on Fact, know

something of what can be done in this strange world wherein God has

Iplaced them, and something of how to do it. No one is more deeply,

yea awfully, convinced than am of the need of sound religious teach

Iing. But no one is more deeply, yea awfully, convinced than am,

that even the best religious teaching, especially in these days, will bear

but stunted and shrivelled fruit, unless accompanied by physical teach

ing ; and thus supported (as all human thought should be) in the minds
of teachers and of children alike, on a substratum of truth, reason, and

common sense."

   This address, which made a profound sensation at the time,

was printed by the League, and about 100,000 copies distributed.
   He had lately joined the Education League with several

other clergymen, who, like himself, were nearly hopeless about a
compulsory National Education, in which measure alone they saw

hope for the masses ; but he subsequently withdrew, and gave

his warm allegiance to Mr. Forster's Act, for the same reasons as

his friend, a London Rector, who says :

  I" ceased to take any interest in the League after it had done its

work ; that of rousing a reluctant Government to do something. That
something the Government did by Mr. Forster's help ; and after the

304 Charles Kingsley.

Elementary Act was passed the League to me was dead. It had done
Iits work, and that a good work. So far as can judge of its work since,
I think that work such that a liberal clergyman cannot approve
                                                             a                        It

has become narrow and sectarian, while pretending to be Catholic andaI

liberal, and its speakers and supporters are generally unjust to the;I
                                                                                 a it.
National Church."
                                                                           I;
   At this Congress, the subject of the Medical Education ofa
Women was discussed, and he made acquaintance with Dr.a

Elizabeth Blackwell, who had herself taken a medical degree,
and had practised for twenty-five years as consulting phy
sician in America. She was afterwards welcome guest at

Eversley and Chester, and has kindly contributed her recollec
tions of these visits.

" My dear Mrs. Kingsley,
         " think that no sketch of Canon Kingsley's life would be
    '
complete without some record of his constant and even enthusiastic
         I
interest in the subject of the medical education of women.      never
                a
shall forget the words he spoke to me, when (returning to my native

land  after        long absence) met   him for the first time in Bristol.
   "             are one of my heroes    was the greeting --words of recogni
      You           I

                                    !'

tion which filled me with gratitude, and seemed rich reward for life
of effort. He then proceeded to tell me of the profound interest with
                                             it
which, for many years, he had watched the gradual growth of woman'saa
endeavour to obtain the advantages of thorough medical education
                                          a

and how, from his inmost soul, he gave'              hearty God-speed.'

Through the years that followed, he showed himself constant and

ardent friend of this noble cause always ready to give information or
                                       ;

advice in relation to any plans for its advancement. The old fir woods

of Eversley, and the distant mountain views of Chester, will always be

associated in my mind with the long walks we took together when,

with wonderful earnestness and eloquence, he poured forth the treasures

of his experience for my guidance, listening eagerly to every sign of

progress, carefully considering every suggestion anxious only, with the;

whole force of his nature, to give wisdom and support to one who was
carrying on this cherished work of his. During the few years that
knew him, he was always ready, no matter how busy or how tired he

might be, to give thought and aid to any plan for carrying on the work.a
Only few weeks before he left us, in December of 1874, saw him

several times at the Cloisters, Westminster, in relation to proposed

                      A Dream Fulfilled.  305

plan for securing medical degrees to women. Although his health was

broken, and he was suffering from over-work, he entered upon this

subject with his customary enthusiasm ; gave it his most careful con

sideration, and agreed (with your cordial approbation, dear Mrs. Kingsley)
to become chairman of the committee which was being formed for the

Ipurpose of carrying out this important measure. have full faith that the

accomplishment of no providential work can be really hindered by the

departure of any individual worker; but I know that our cause has

suffered a heavy loss in the death of your noble husband ; and with

Igrateful remembrance offer this record of his large-hearted and intelli

gent sympathy.     " I remain, my dear Friend, affectionately yours,

                                           " Elizabeth Blackwell, M.D."

   In November he went down to Chester to be installed as
Canon, and was most kindly received by the Dean and the
Chapter, with whom for the next three years he worked so
harmoniously.

   On the 2nd of December, he and his daughter embarked at
Southampton for the West Indies.

" At last we, too, were crossing the Atlantic At last the dream of
forty years, please God, would be fulfilled, and I should see (and hap
                   the West Indies and the Spanish Main. From childhood
pily not   alone)   their natural history, their charts, their romances, and
          studied
I had
Ialas ! their tragedies ; and now at last was about to compare books

with facts, and judge for myself of the reported wonders of the earthly
                   "
paradise

  It would be a twice told tale to those who have read his " At

Last" to do more than glance at his account of the voyage and
its new experiences, the historic memories of Sir Walter Raleigh,
Sir Richard Grenville, and many of England's forgotten worthies
woke up by the sight of the Azores, and of all he felt at finding
himself on the track of the "old sea heroes," Drake and Haw

kins, Carlile and Cavendish, Cumberland, Preston, Frobisher, and
Duddely, Keymis and Widdon -- and of the first specimen of the
Gulf-weed which brought back " the memorable day when Colum
bus's ship plunged her bows into the tangled ocean meadow, and

the sailors were ready to mutiny, fearing hidden shoals, ignorant

306 Charles Kingsley.

that they had four miles of blue water beneath their keel," --and

of the awe which the poet and the man of science must needs
feel at that first sight of the " Sargasso sea, and of the theories

connected with it--not wholly impossible --of a sunken Atlantic
continent--and of his enjoyment of the glorious cloudland, and

the sudden sunsets when
                                  ' The sun's rim dips, the stars rush out
                                     At one stride comes the dark ; '

to be succeeded after balmy nights by the magnificent pageant

of tropic sunlight "--and of the first sight of the New World,

and the look out for Virgin Gorda, one of those numberless islands

which Columbus discovered on St. Ursula's day, and of the arrival

at St. Thomas, with its scarlet and purple roofs piled up among

orange trees, and the first glimpse of a tropic hill-side. "Oh! for a
                                  "
boat to get into that paradise       and how  the boat was got;  and
                                !
how he leapt out on a sandy beach --and then the revelation of

tropic vegetation, and the unmistakable cocoa-nut trees, and the

tall aloes, and the grey-blue Cerei, and the bright deep green of a
patch of Guinea grass ;--and the astonishment which swallowed
up all other emotions at the wonderful wealth of life --and the
" effort, at first in vain, to fix our eyes on some one dominant or

typical form, while every form was clamouring as it were to be

looked at, and a fresh Dryad gazed out of every bush, and with

wooing eyes asked to be wooed -- and the drooping boughs

of the shoregrape with its dark velvet leaves and crimson

midrib, and the fragrant Frangipane, and the first cocoa-nut, and
the mangrove swamp, and then the shells -- the old friends never

seen till now but in cabinets at home, earnests that all was not

a dream ; the prickly pinna, the great strombi, with the outer

shell broken away, disclosing the rosy cameo within and looking

on the rough beach pitifully tender and flesh-like ; and the

lumps of coral, all to be actually picked up and handled --and the

first tropic orchid, and the first wild pines clinging parasitic on

the boughs of strange trees, or nestling among the angular shoots
of the columnar Cereus ; " and the huge green calabashes, the
playthings of his childhood, alive and growing ; and how " up

and down the sand we wandered collecting shells, till we

rowed back to the ship over white sand where grew the short

                        Westward Ho !                            307

manati grass, and where the bottom was stony, we could see huge

prickly sea urchins, huger brainstone corals, round and grey, and

above, sailing over our heads, flocks of brown and grey pelicans,
to show us where we were -- and met the fleet of negro boats laden
                                                                         "
with  bunches of plantains,   yams,  green      oranges,  sugar  canes
                                                                        ;

and then the steaming down the islands, and the sight of the

Lesser Antilles, the beauty and grandeur of which exceeded all

his boyish dreams ; and St. Kitts with its great hill, which took,

in Columbus's imagination, the form of the giant St. Christopher
bearing on his shoulder the infant Christ -- and how " from the

ship we beheld with wonder and delight, the pride of the West

Indies, the Cabbage Palms--well named by botanists the Oreo-
doxa, the glory of the mountains --grey pillars, smooth and

cylindrical as those of a Doric temple, each carrying a flat head
                     "
of darkest  green       and  how   Guadaloupe,  Dominica, and Mar
                   ;

tinique were passed, and St. Vincent and its souffriere gazed on

with awe and reverence --and the beautiful St. Lucia with its

wonderful Pitons, and through the Grenadines to Grenada, the
last of the Antilles, as now the steamer ran dead south for seventy

miles, and on St. Thomas's Day, at early dawn,

" We became aware of the blue mountains of North Trinidad a-head

of us; to the west the island of the Dragon's Mouth, and westward
again, a cloud among the clouds -- the last spur of the Cordilleras of the

Spanish Main. There was South America at last ; and as a witness

that this, too, was no dream, the blue waters of the Windward Isles

changed suddenly into foul bottle-green. The waters of the Orinoco,

waters from the peaks of the Andes far away, were staining the sea

around us. With thoughts full of three great names, connected as long
....as civilised men shall remain, with those waters -- Columbus, Raleigh,
Humboldt -- we steamed on          and then saw before us . . . . to the

eastward, the northern hills of Trinidad, forest clad down to the water ;
to the south a long line of coast, generally level with the water's edge,

green with mangroves or dotted with cocoa palms. That was the Gulf

of Paria and Trinidad beyond         In half-an-hour more we were on

shore, amid negroes, coolies, Chinese, French, Spaniards, short-legged

Guaraon dogs and black vultures."

   On the voyage he had been able to write home more than
once, and to telegraph from St. Thomas.

                                                                                                                         X2

308 Cliarles Kingsley.

                        Mail Steamer Shannon, December, 1869.

"Latitude 25°, longitude 500, i.e., in the Doldrums or Calves of
ICancer, past the Gulf-weed, and among the flying-fish
                                                          get this

letter ready to go by the Martinique mail. You will have seen ere this,

I trust, a telegram announcing our safe arrival at St. Thomas. We are

having the most charming passage which even old hands remember at

this time of year, and the steamer is full of delightful and instructive
people, so that R      has really excellent society, and I am learning

something every day. We have already invitations to Barbadoes, to

Jamaica, to Cuba, Grenada, Tobago-- so that we might spend months
I Iin the West Indies ; but shall be home, please God, by the mail
Ipromised.
            find we shall come in for the beginning of the sugar-cane

harvest, and two or three great planters have asked us to come and see

I I Iit. have done duty, and preached twice, and hope not in vain.

go up with your prayer-book every morning on the paddle-box or the
Ideck, before any passengers are up, so that have a quiet gracious time
--up at six, and breakfast at nine. R
                                         has been looking, and is
better than she has been for months ; so, so far all is well. It all seems at

Itimes like a dream ; then as if one had been always on board ; then

want to show or tell you something, and forget for the moment you are

three thousand miles off, in frost, perhaps, and snow, while we are in
Irich showery midsummer, with such sunrises and sunsets.
                                                          will send
Iby the English mail all have been able to write, which will get to

Strahan by the 15th, and he will send it to you to correct the proofs.
Love to M
            , and to G  , and to Harrison; and to everyone. And

tell my mother that the old fig-tree at Harmony Hall, of which she

dreamt, is standing still, and that we are going to visit a planter in

Trinidad, who began in Barbadoes with Douglas, who managed Clapham

for her father. So do things come round. The West Indians are such
good able men, and so large, and strong, and ruddy --just like English

squires and yeomen. They deserve to thrive, and they are thriving

now.

   Christmas found him the guest of his kind friend Sir Arthur
Gordon, Governor of Trinidad, at the Cottage, Port of Spain,
the earthly paradise which he had reached at last.

" Actually  settled,"  he writes  home,                    Christmas Eve,  1869.

                                         " in a West Indian country        house,

amid a multitude of sights and sounds so utterly new and strange, that

                      An Earthly Paradise.                                                                                309

the mind is stupefied by the continual effort to take in, or, to confess

the truth, to gorge, without hope of digestion, food of every conceivable

variety. The whole day long new objects, and their new names, have

jostled each other in the brain, in dreams as well as in waking thoughts.

Amid such a confusion, to describe this place as a whole, is as yet

impossible. It must suffice if you find in this letter a sketch or two --
not worthy to be called a study -- of particular spots, which seem typical,

beginning with my bath-room window as the scene which first proved

to  me that we  were  verily in the tropics.
                with   the weeds on the
    " To begin                                path,  like,  and  yet                                             unlike,  all
at home --then the rattle of the bamboo, the clashing of the huge

leaves of the young fan-palms, the flower-fence, the guinea-grass, the
sand-box, the hibiscus, with its scarlet flowers -- a long list; but for
the climax, the groo groo palms, a sight never to be forgotten -- to

have once seen palms breaking through, and as it were defying the

soft rounded forms of the broad-leaved vegetation by the stern force

of their simple lines; the immovable pillar-stem, looking the more

immovable beneath the toss, the lash, and flicker of the long leaves, as

they awake out of their sunlit sleep, and rage impotently for a while

before the mountain gusts, to fall to sleep again. Like a Greek statue

in a luxurious drawing-room, sharpcut, cold, virginal, showing, by the

mere grandeur of form, the voluptuousness of mere colour, however

....rich and harmonious ; so stands the palm tree, to be worshipped rather

than to be loved."

   " Here I am sitting, with a fan-palm looking in at the window six feet

off, and an orange and a flower-fence next, and wild guava and pines

in the bottom of the dell, and over the house an enormous cotton-wood

tree, and above that, hills dotted with grey palms. Hindoo prisoners,
some with ' felon ' marked on their backs, making excellent out-door

servants ; a wilderness of tame monkeys, a young jaguar, ditto puma, a

toucan, all the colours on earth, a spider-monkey, hanging by its tail

among creepers, which a duke would give any money for, warm water

pouring out of the clouds in pailsful, the glorious sun, and ruffling
breeze which makes the fan-palms rattle like a lot of loose boards ; and
at night frogs and fire-flies by the thousand, with a spice of mole-
crickets and mantises. Oh, it is the queerest paradise. But a paradise

it and most healthy one. So make yourself easy about us. We
expect Admiral Wellesley and the fleet soon, and then we think of

going up the Orinoco. A merry Christmas to you, and happy New

Year. Good-bye, God bless you."
    is,
                 a
                                                                                                              a

310 Charles Kingsley.

                                    The Cottage, Port of Spain.

                                                                 Trinidad, January 23, 1870.

   "... You may conceive the delight with which I got your letter,
and M             and to think that the telegram should have arrived on
            's,
Christmas Day No wonder the intellect of Eversley was puzzled toit !

find out how came. You may tell them that Mr. Dunlop, Consul-

General at Cuba, who went out with us, took telegram for us to
                                             I
                                                          a
                                                                   is

                                                              I
                                                                            is

                                                                   aI
Havanna, whence there telegraph to New York, and so to England,is

and as went government hands, had priority of all. It delightful
         it
                                                     As for us, we are
                 I by
to think that by now you have got our letters

perfectly well.        have not been so well this seven years.       have been

riding this week six to eight hours day, through primeval forests, mud,
                                          a

roots, gullies, and thickets, such that had anticipated them, would

have brought out breeches and boots. English mud but trifle to

tropical. But have had no fall, and never got wet, and as for what              II
            ! II
have seen, no tongue can tell. We have got many curiosities, and lots

of snakes.           have only seen one alligator, about five to six feet

long, and marks only of deer and capo. But have seen one of the
                                                     I
mud volcanoes As for scenery, for vastness and richness mingled,I

                                                                  I
never saw its like. Oh that could transport you to the Monserrat
                                    it I
hills for one hour. We can get no photographs, so that know not

how to make you conceive                all. The woods are now vermilion with

Bois Immortel in        aa   fortnight they will be golden with Poui (all huge
                  ;          tree which for size beats all ever dreamed of,

trees).  I  have seen

a  Sand-box, forty-four feet round and seventy-five feet (we got down           a
liana and measured to the first fork, which did not seem half up the
                        it)

tree. But with too many of these giants, you can get no good view,

their heads being lost in the green world above. But have seen
                                                                  I

single trees left in parks over one hundred and twenty feet, with vast

flat heads, which are gardens of orchids, &c, and tons of lianas hanging

down from them, and the spurs of their roots like walls of board as high

as man. On Tuesday we start again for the north coast, then short
   a                                                                 a

dash to the east, and then home.             have resisted all solicitations and
                                          I'
invitations, and poor F. H                   I

                                                  I
                                          being ill, gives me plain reason for
                                                     aI a
keeping my promise to you. Besides, have seen enough already to?

last me my life.        keep saying, cannot not have been in the tropics.'
         I

                     ?

                I
                    I
And as ride, jog myself, and say, You stupid fellow, wake up. Do

you see that and that Do you know where you are and my other
                             ?

self answers, Don't bother.               have seen so much, can't take in any
                                    I

                                          it

                                                  I
more, and   I    don't care about         all. So am in state of intellec

tual repletion, indigestion, and shall take full twelvemonths to assimi-

                            Life in the Forest.                  311

I Ilate and arrange the mass of new impressions.
Icareful.                                              assure you am very

           had to lie off a mangrove swamp in burning sun, very tired,

after having ridden four hours, and been shoved over the mud in a

Icanoe among the calling crabs, by three niggers, and did not feel it

the least, though the mud stank, and the wind was off shore, because

I Ibefore I got into the canoe, took a good dose of quinine, which

always carry. Moreover, there are some wonderful angostura bitters

(the same which cured Humboldt of his fever) which people take here

before dinner, or when wet, tired, or chilly, and their effect is magical.
I shall bring some home, and get Heynes to try them on the next case
Iof ague or low fever. They are tonic, not alcoholic
                                                                 have kept a
Igreat number of notes, and must make more. But this week have
travelled too fast, and have had no luggage, save at my saddle-bow. It
is a glorious life in the forest, and I should like six months of it without
stopping, if it did not rain. But the dry season is coming on now, and

it is growing delightfully cool."

" Here the rain is again.                                                                "January 24.

                                   Thunder showers without thunder, and

intense heat, which is really cooler (by the thermometer) than the sun,
but feels hotter, because it overcharges the air so with moisture, that the

insensible perspiration does not evaporate, and you are smothered in

you"r   own steam.  fellow  has   arrived,  Mr.  D. V  , son of an old friend

       A charming

of my father's, now governor of St. Lucia, who has been in Demerara,

and has seen and done unspeakable things among Indians and wild
Ianimals.  am learning a great deal from him, as I do from every one.

And he will come on board at St. Lucia as we go home, and bring us a

real fcr de lance (the dreadful snake of St. Lucia and Martinique) in

I Ispir"itHs o.w.
        .           a  thing  is  man.      longed to get here.  have been

       strange
I Imore than satisfied with being here, and now long to get back again.

long to find us running past those glorious Windward Islands, and away
from St. Thomas to the cold north-east. But--this will be a possession
....-- ' a thing of beauty is a joy for ever,' and this will have made me
                       I do hope and trust that by the time this reaches
Ifyoung again
England you will be with the dear Egertons             so, give them all
my love. Tell dear Mrs. A. L
                                            that her brother, the admiral, came
Ihere, that had the most delightful of days at the Pitch Lake with him,
and that he wanted to carry us off in the ' Royal Alfred ' to Granada,

&c, which would have been glorious. He is a noble man, and all his

officers adore him. It was very quaint talking over Franco Liddell

312 Charles Kingsley.

and all of them, under the moriche palms. Give my love to William

IHarrison, and tell him how deeply obliged to him am for taking care
of everything in the parish while I am away.
                                                                I have nothing
    "Remember me to everyone in the parish

more to say just now, save that the Botanic Gardens, in the grounds of
                   are perpetual treasure, because they are full of
which the cottage  is,
                              a

                                        I
most rare trees and fruits from all the tropics, India, South Sea Islands,

&c. have learned more botany than expected, and shall bring home
I

few dried flowers, but many curious nuts, &c. There no time. By is

next mail, please God, you will see us ourselves."

To his mother he writes --
                            :

                                                                                                January 25.

" To-night we start for the north coast and glorious mountain shores.

We sleep at planter's, and ride off to-morrow morning for three days,
I
        I

                    a
                                 a

                                                      .
                                                          .

                                          . is

                               I

                                                                          ;

                                           I
                                                                I

                                                                I
with cutlass, mackintosh,   botany-box, and quinine-bottle, into the
forests. The riding here     very wild -- rock, roots, fallen timber, and

abysses of mud. But the horses are very sure footed, and can ride,

so have not had fall yet.      shall have hundreds of stories to tell

you when get home.                                                                           have
    " There are no nasty things here at least, don't see them.

onl"yEsveeernyothnreeehesrneakheass(nhoenaepepdoisuosnowuitsh)  and one alligator.      and  infor
                                                                kindness, hospitality,

mation, and little presents; and we shall come home, please God, all the

wiser, but none the fatter, for distil couple of quarts of pure water out
                   I           Ia
                           I
of each joint every day, and am grown as hard as whipcord in conse

quence. am afraid don't like the negroes, specially the women; but
   in I                                                                                 !
delight the coolies, who are graceful and well-mannered, and will be
                                                                                               is I
the saving of the poor West Indies, verily believe. You must under

stand that this island  is  not like the others. The greater part

almost flat, covered with virgin forest, and the plants and animals are

more like those of Demerara than of the Caribbee Islands. Oh that you

could see the cocoa (chocolate) orchards, with the crimson- flowered Bois
Immortel shading them, and all the flowering trees, which are just
                        bad shore for shells -- all mud and mangroves.
coming out. This
         a
              is
                   a
But we have got few. Good-bye, my dearest mother."

   Seven weeks passed quickly in the enjoyment, not only of
the scenery that he has described in " At Last," the memories of
which were fresh as ever on his death-bed, but in companionship

                     A Sad Farewell.                            313

with one whose society was a continual charm, who had at
tracted him from the first hour he spent in his society two
years before, and with whom, living at so high a level and
with such noble aims, he could commune on the deepest sub
jects, dear to both. Thanks to this kind host, to whom he had
now grown strongly attached, and to whom he owed one of the
most delightful episodes of his life, he took leave of lovely
Trinidad refreshed in brain, strengthened in health, enriched
with beautiful memories, and in the possession of a friendship
which was true to the last. Sir Arthur Gordon little thought

that in five years he should be standing by Charles Kingsley's

grave at Eversley, before himself setting sail for a still greater

work in the Fiji Islands, than the government of Trinidad or

the Mauritius.

"It was a sore leaving             The hunger for travel had been

aroused, above all for travelling westward     It seemed hard to

turn back after getting so far along the great path of the human race,
and one had to reason with oneself -- ' Foolish soul, whither would you
                                               If you go up the
go ? You cannot go Westward Ho ! for ever.
Orinoco, you will long to go up the Meta. If you get to Santa Fe de

Bogota, you will not be content till you cross the Andes, and see

Cotopaxi and Chimborazo. When you look down on the Pacific, you

will be craving to go to the Gallapagos, after Darwin ; and then to the

Marquesas, after Herman Melville ; and then to the Fijis, after See-

man ; and then to Borneo, after Brooke ; and then to the Archipelago,
                                                                       '
after Wallace ; and then to Hindoostan, and round the world

With wistful eyes, we watched the sun by day, and Venus and the moon

by night, sink down  in the  gulf  to lighten  lands which we   should never
                     more,   and   we were     steaming out to
see. A few hours                                                the Bocas --
which we had begun to love as the gates of a new home --heaped with

presents to the last minute        Behind us Port of Spain sank into

haze ; before us Monos rose, tall, dark, and grim, in moonless night,

with its well-beloved nooks        And it was all over. We are such

stuff as dreams are made of; and as in a dream, or rather as part of

Ia dream, and myself a phantom and a play-actor, looked out over the
side, and saw on the right the bleak walls of Monos ; on the left,

the bleak walls of Huevos-- a gate even grander than that of Monos ;

and the Umbrella Rock, capped with matapalo and cactus, and night-

blooming cereus, dim in the dusk. And now we were outside. The
roar of the surf, the tumble of the sea, the rush of the trade-wind told

314 Charies Kingsley.

us that at once. Out in the great sea, with Granada, and wind-fiends

in aheadit,       . but we looked astern, and not ahead. We could see
           ;      .
               .

into and through the gap of Huevos, through which we tried to reach the

Guacharo Cave. Inside that notch in the cliff must be the wooded bay

whence we picked up the shells among the fallen leaves and flowers.
                                                      the Guacharos * must be trooping
From under that dark wall beyond                 it,

out for their nightly forage, as they had trooped out since                          He

alone who made them knows how long. The outline of Huevos, the
outline of Monos, were growing lower and greyer astern. A long ragged

haze signified the Northern Mountains, and far off, on the port

quarter, lay flat bank of cloud, amid which rose, or seemed to rise,
     aa
the Cordillera of the Main, and the hills where jaguars lie. Canopus

blazed high astern, and Fomalhaut below him to the west, as                          if

bidding us kind farewell. Orion and Aldebaran spangled the zenith.

The young moon lay on her back in the far west, thin and pale, over

Cumana and the Cordillera, with Venus, ragged and red with earth-mist,

just beneath. And low ahead, with the pointers horizontal, glimmered

the cold pole star, for which we were steering, out of the summer into

the winter once more. We grew chill as we looked at him, and shud

dered, may be cowered, for moment, at the thought of Nifelheim,'
     1 it                                                                     '
        it
                                                                                  f
                  ;

                  a
                                             aa
the home of the frosts and fogs, towards which we were bound."

He left St. Thomas by different track to that by which he

came, running northward between Tortola and Virgin Gorda to
ward the Gulf-stream--or Drake's Channel, as had been named
                                                                        a it
since 575         more advantageous course for homeward bound

ship, as strikes the Gulf-stream soonest and keeps longest.
                                                                              it

The voyage was successful, and notwithstanding fatality among           a

the livestock, and the death of an ant-eater and an alligator,
" who wept crocodile tears before his departure," the kinkajou

and the parrot, who were bound for Eversley Rectory, survived,

and towards the end of February

   " The Land's End was visible, and as we neared the Lizard we could

see not only the lighthouses on the cliff, and every well-known cave and
rock from Mullion and Kynance round to St. Keverne, but far inland
likewise and regrets for the lovely western paradise were all swallowed
     ;
                     *  H"umAbtoLldats'st,"Wvoonl.deiir.fuclh.  Birds,
                      t                                          xvii.

                        Home and the Parish.                                                             315

up with bright thoughts of the cold northern home as ' we ran northwards

for the Needles. With what joy we saw at last the white wall of the

island glooming dim ahead. With what joy we first discerned that huge

outline of a visage, on Freshwater Cliff, so well known to sailors                                            '

With what joy did we round the old Needles and run past Hurst Castle,

and with what shivering, too                                        At first an English winter was a

change for the worse. Fine old oaks and beeches looked to us, fresh

from ceibas and volatas, like leafless brooms stuck into the ground by

their handles ; while the want of light was for some days painful and

depressing. But we had done                                         and within the three months, as we
    it.
                                                           it,

                                                                                 '
                                                                              it,
promised. As the king in the old play says, What has been, has been,

and I've had my hour.' At least we had seen and we could not un-

see We could not have been in the tropics."

   And now returned he settled down in the parish with re
newed vigour, though feeling the change of climate almost as

cruelly as his son, who arrived at the same moment from
South America. The parish benefitted by their respective travels
at Penny Readings and in their visits to the cottagers. He
loved to give his people the results of his own and his child
ren's new experiences in life for in a certain sense Eversley
had advanced step in intelligent sympathy with the great

world outside. It was the same Eversley, and yet different to

what had been when he first came there twenty-eight years
before. His own personal influence, and the influence of new

circumstances, had told upon it. It was no longer the secluded

spot had been in his curate days, or even at a later period,
when he loved to dwell on its " monotony " as " so pleasant in
itself, morally pleasant and morally useful." *

    The monotony was broken occasionally by very startling
    it it

                       a

                                                                 ;

"I* delight in that same monotony. It saves curiosity, anxiety, excitement, dis
appointment, and host of bad passions.
                                                                    It

                                                                         I

                                                                                                  is

                                                                                           II

                                                                                                     if
               is                                                   gives a man the blessed invigorating
                     a
feeling that he at home that he has roots, deep and wide, struck down into all he
                        ;

sees, and that only the Being who will do nothing cruel or useless can tear them up.
IfIt pleasant to look down on the same parish day after day, and say know all that
is

lies beneath, and all beneath know me                               want a friend, know where to
               want work done, know who will do it. It pleasant and good to
find him;                  ;I

          iIf

see the same trees year after year the same birds coming back in spring to the same

shrubs the same banks covered with the same flowers, and broken, they be stiff
    ;

ones, by the same gaps."-- Winter Garden, p. 145. Frost Idylls.

316 Charles Kingsley.

incidents -- the neighbourhood of Aldershot bringing flying
columns, to the Flats and Bramshill Park. Engineering parties

camped out and wells were sunk on the newly-enclosed glebe
land, as for an advancing army ; artillery waggons rumbled past
the quiet rectory, and bugle calls were heard at all hours by the
Rector and his people. Now and then, too, the monotony was
broken by quite another excitement, for a great heath fire would
break out on the Flats, and sometimes encroached on the firs
at Bramshill Park, and committed havoc among them.

   " At such a time," says a friend, " the Rector was all activity. On
one occasion the fire began during the time of divine service. A

messenger posted down to the church in hot haste, to call out the men ;

and Mr. Kingsley, leaving the curate to finish the service, rushed to the

scene of action, taking a flying leap, in surplice, hood, and stole, over

the churchyard palings. The fire was an extensive one ; but he, armed

with a bill-hook, and now divested of everything ecclesiastical, was

everywhere, organizing bands of beaters, and, begirt with smoke and

flame, resisting the advance of the fire at every advantageous point.

nFor many nights subsequently watchers were placed in the woods ; and
at a late hour (between  p.m. and 2 a.m.) Mr. Kingsley would sally

forth and go the rounds, carefully inspecting the country as he went,

cheering the watchers with kind hearty words of encouragement -- him

self intensely interested in the general picturesqueness of the event, and

excited by the feeling that the alarm might be given at any moment,

and the firs which he loved so dearly be wrapped in flame."

TO SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                                Eversley, March 15, 1870.

I I I" received your letter with a pang ; for felt that ought to have

written to you before you wrote to me. But forgive me, on the strength
Iof the press of business at first coming home.
Imy wildest dreams have anticipated ; but        have seen more than
                                           have done much less. I

found collecting plants, riding through the forest, to be almost impossi

Ible ; and yet did my best, always remembering you, and hoping that

my specimens would find their way to your herbarium. But damp and

Imishaps made me lose so many specimens, that at last gave up in
Idespair ; and all the more as, most of the plants not being in flower,
Icould identify hardly any. Still a few have brought home, and will

send you if you will accept them. A very few ; but there are some five

                 Bramo Somaj.                                    317

Ior six among them which wish much that you should take. Utricularia

with linear leaves from the grass Savannah of Aripo ; turf-flowers, utterly
unlike in habit to our water-species, and Drosera longifolia--incredible
Ias it may seem-- growing with them.
                                       have also a few curious seeds
and fruits, of which I hope you will accept specimens. Of the wonder
Iof the whole place I will not attempt to write ; need not to you, who
Iknow the forests of Brazil.
                              have to look at times at my specimens to

assure myself that it is not all a dream. But in the wonderful improve
Iment in my health, and in the renewed youth of my mind,
                                                             feel very

fair proof that

                 ' I too on honey-dew have fed,

                  And ate the fruits of paradise.'

I" long to see you and dear Lady Bunbury, and ask you a thousand
Iquestions, and shall come to you, if you will allow me, the moment
Iam free. Just now I am very busy, as
                                       have to see to many things

before going to Chester at the end of April for three months. R

enjoyed, and did mightily, the whole time she was in the West Indies.

You will be glad, I know, to hear that our boy, Maurice, is come back

from South America, well, happy, and so delighted with the life that his

Ionly wish is to return ; though not, probably, to the same place.

have often longed to get him a post on some exploring expedition, if

such things ever exist again under a cheese-paring government, which

fools John Bull to the top of his bent on his strange fancy that he is
over-taxed, and must needs save odd farthings. My boy would make

an admirable explorer, and, it may be, win himself a name."

                 TO MISS SUSAN WINKWORTH.

                                                                  EVERSLEY, April 18, 1870.

" I must apologise for not having answered your former letter.* But

on my return from the West Indies we were both very busy in settling

for our eldest son, who returned from South America six weeks ago,and

has started three days since, full of heart and hope, for the Rocky

Mountains.

  " I read the tracts (Bramo Somaj Tracts by K. C. Sen) with great

interest and satisfaction, and shall be delighted to make Mr. Sen's
acquaintance if he can come and see us at Chester, where we go
                 I have heard much of him, and of the whole
on the 29th

    * About the Bramo Somaj movement,  begging to introduce Mr. Sen to Mr.
Kingsley on his return to England.

3 1 8 Charles Kingsley.

Imovement, and am very hopeful about it.    trust that no bigotry
here will interfere with men, who, if they are not at the point to

which St. Paul and St. John attained, are trying honestly to reach
Ithat to which Abraham, David, and the Jewish prophets rose : a
respectable height, should have thought       My mother is with

us, better than she has been for years past, and is going with us to

Chester."

           TO W. HUTCHINS CALXCOTT, ESQ.

                                            Eversley, April 9, 1870.
" About the word ' oubit,' it is simply a hairy caterpillar, which
children call the 'devil's gold ring.' Also, I must thank you for
Ithe charming sketches* you are pleased to send.
                                                  am only sorry for

your own sake that you should give away things which will be some day,

when we are dead and gone, so valuable from their intrinsic beauty.

What a genius Sir Augustus must have been ! Like Nature, ' Maximus

in minimis.' He knew what Schleiden calls ' the Esthetics of Nature '

I--better worth, sometimes think, than the mere genera and species of
all Natural Historians. If you have that in your heart (the head cannot

take it in), you need not regret your ignorance of mere Natural History.

Bewick had the latter up to a certain point. But his genius lay in this,

that he was saturated with the former ; and therefore his vignettes are

more valuable by far than even his birds."

                TO W. PENGELLY, ESQ., F.G.S.

" Many thanks.  I Eversley, April 15, 1870.

                   accept joyfully the honour which is offered me

by your council to be president of your Devonshire Scientific Association,

and the date thereof. I only feel a dread at so great a pleasure, so far

off, and at what may happen meanwhile ; for ' life is uncertain,' say

folks. ' Life is certain,' say I, because God is educating us thereby.

But this process of education is so far above our sight, that it looks

often uncertain and utterly lawless. Wherefore fools (with M. Comte)
conceive there is no living God, because they cannot condense His

formulas into their small smelling bottles.

   " My eldest son, who has learnt his trade well at Cirencester and in

the River Plate, is just going off to try his own manhood in Colorado,

United States. You will understand, therefore, that it is somewhat

important to me just now, whether the world be ruled by a just and

           * Original Sketches, by Sir Augustus Callcott.

The Pomp of Worship.  319

wise God, or by (x + 17 + () = o. It is also an important question

to me with regard to my own boy's future, whether what is said to have

Ihappened to-morrow (Good Friday) be true or false. But am old-

fashioned and superstitious, and unworthy of the year 1870."

   On the 1st of May he took possession of " The Residence "
in Abbey Square, Chester, for three months. His Dean, to

whom he gave glad allegiance and under whom he worked for
three years, received him with cordial kindness ; and it was a

happy circumstance and an important one to him that the first
cathedral with which he was connected, was one where the

reverent worship and admirable arrangements made every service
in which he joined congenial and elevating. Choral services had
hitherto had little attraction for him : the slovenliness which in

by-gone years characterised them in some places, having shocked
him from the aesthetic and still more from the religious point
of view. Had this been the case at Chester it would have
been a serious drawback to the happiness of his life while there.

But all was in harmony with the ideal of Christian worship.
And the dignity of the services, the reverence of all who con

ducted them, from its visitor, the Bishop much beloved, who was

always present (except when diocesan business called him away),

down to the little chorister boys, impressed him deeply. It

filled the new Canon's heart with thankfulness that the lot had

fallen to him in a cathedral, where dean, precentor, organist,

choir master and lay clerks all worked earnestly to one end ; and
he could say with truth, as day by day he entered the venerable
cloisters, " How amiable are Thy dwellings, O Lord, Thou God
of hosts. My soul hath a desire and longing to enter into the
courts of the Lord. One day in Thy courts is better than a
thousand. Blessed are they that dwell in Thy house." The early
morning daily services were his great refreshment, and seemed
to hallow the day to him, and many peaceful moments did he
spend in the old chapter house, in reading and prayer, before
the clergy and choir assembled for worship, at eight o'clock A.M.

   The Sunday services, including the vast nave congregation in
the evening were exciting and exhausting; but through all, he
experienced an abiding satisfaction of soul, a sense of the fitness

320 Charles Kings ley.

of things, which was quite unexpected to himself and to those

who had known his previous habit of life and feeling. Without

         it                                                                                                                                    as a man
                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                                                              :
professing to understand music, he had always loved

of his genius and fine organisation necessarily must but at

Chester  revealed itself to him in the cathedral worship, and

in daily intercourse with his friend the Precentor, he soon learned

to look and long for particular anthems and services with

eagerness and appreciation.

  A few days after arriving at Chester he took the chair for the

Dean at meeting of the Archaeological Society, and on being
         a

                       :
asked whether he belonged to the old Kingsley family once in

Cheshire said

   " His own feeling in coming to Chester was that he was coming'
home, for although he was landless, his ancestors had not been. Hea
confessed to feeling of pride in his connection with Cheshire, and to
the mention of his name in the old Tarporley hunting song
                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                    :
           In right of his bugle and greyhounds to seize

            Waif, pannage, agistment, and wind-fallen trees
            His knaves through our forest Ralph Kingsley dispersed,
            Bow-bearer-in-chief to Earl Randall the First.

         * This Horn the Grand Forester wore at his side
            Whene'er his liege lord chose a-hunting to ride --
            By Sir Ralph and his heirs for century blown,
           It passed from their lips to the mouth of Done.'
                            a
                                                            a

                                                                               a
He was glad to come to county where many of his kin had lived, and

where he had many friends, and he had no higher ambition than to live
and die Canon of Chester. He was by no means an ambitious man,
as the world called man ambitious. All he wanted was time to do
                          a
                                                ;   in anything set on foot

                                                if
his work and write his books and                                                                                                                 in in  this
ancient city -- any movement connected with literary and scientific
societies or mechanics' institutes --he might be able to help
                                                                                                                                                        his

humble way, he was at the service of the good citizens of Chester.

* The bugle horn, alluded to in the old song, and which in his coat of arms, was
                                        a
                                                                                  is
the one which his ancestors, as Foresters to Earl Randal, had the right to wear. The

grandson of this Ranulph,   R"avleprht  de Kingsley, married Mabilla de Moston in 1233,
and the same coat of arms,               cross engrailed ermine on an escocheon of pretence

Argent, a bugle strung sable," have been carried by the family through many reverses

to the present day.

                    Small Beginnings.                                                                            321

He did not wish to thrust himself forward, to originate anything grand,
or be in anybody's way ; but if they could find him reasonable work,
as he was a rather overworked man, he would be happy to do without
any regard to creed, politics, or rank in any way whatsoever. He

thanked the gentlemen who had said so much his favour, and hoped

he should not forfeit the good opinion they had somewhat hastily
formed of him."
                                                             in
                                                                                         it,

   Besides the daily services, which were an occupation in them
selves, and the preparation of his sermons, he was anxious to
get some regular week-day work that would bring the cathe
dral and the town in close contact. As usual his heart turned

to the young men, whose time on long spring and summer even
ings might be turned to account, and he offered to start little

class on physical science, expecting to have perhaps at most

sixteen to twenty young shopmen and clerks. Botany was the

chosen subject, and in small room belonging to the city library,

on the walls, he began --the black board and bit of white

chalk being as usual of important help to the lectures, which he
illustrated throughout. The class soon increased so much in
numbers that he had to migrate to a larger room-- walk and

  field lecture was proposed once week --and the party was

watched from the walls with surprise, and once the gathering
was so large that a man who met them supposed them to be a
congregation going off to the opening of Dissenting chapel
in the country. This was the beginning of the Chester Natural
History Society, which now numbers between five and six
hundred members, with president, secretary, monthly meeting
report, regular summer excursions, and winter courses.
a
                                           a

                                                                     a
                                                                                    a

                                                                                                a
                                                                                                      a

                                                                                                              a

" am very happy here," he writes to Mr. Froude. " have daily
I                                                            ;
    I
                                                                      it I

                                                                                   is
service, which  is  very steadying and elevating. Plenty of work in the

place.    have started botanical class for middle-class young men,
                    ;a
which seems to go well an opportunity of preaching to shrewd, able

Northern men, who can understand and respond and time to work at
physical science --the only thing care for much now -- for
                    ';                                                                 the way

                               I
of God who made all while, --

                    All the windy ways of men

                    Are  but   dust which   argisaeisn.'up"
                    And       lightly laid
                         is

vol. 11.                                                                                      V

322 Charles Kingsley.

He occasionally preached in the diocese during his first resi

dence, the Dean being anxious that the work of the chapter

should extend beyond the cathedral city, and on one occasion

he preached a sermon for the Kirkdale Ragged School, in June,

which made a deep impression, and was much quoted from by
Liverpool newspapers, under the heading of " Canon Kingsley

on Human Soot." " I remember," says a clergyman who heard

him on this occasion, " that marvellous sermon on ' Human

Soot.' It made me more than ever know the magnificent mental

..."calibre of the man. Canon Kingsley was one of a few, and they
giants.  After giving an account of the charity and its
great need, the Canon went on to say :--

" And this leads me to ask you plainly, What do you consider to be

your duty towards these children ? What is your duty towards those

dangerous and degraded classes from which too many of them spring ?
    " You all know the parable of the Good Samaritan. You all know

how he found the poor wounded   Jew by the wayside, and  for the mere
sake of their common humanity,
                                simply because he was a  man --though
he would have scornfully disclaimed the name of brother -- bound up

his wounds, set him on his own beast, led him to an inn, and took care

of him.
   " Now, is yours the duty to deal thus with these poor children ? Is
yours the duty which the Good Samaritan felt ?-- the duty of mere
Ihumanity ? That,
         and think, a little more. Let me say
Iboldly, think these children have a deeper and a nearer claim on you ;

that you must not pride yourselves, here in Liverpool, on acting the Good

Samaritan when you help a ragged school. We do not read that the

Good Samaritan was a merchant on his march at the head of his own

caravan. We do not read that the wounded man was one of his own
servants, or a child of one of his servants, who had been left behind,

unable from weakness or weariness to keep pace with the rest, and had

dropped by the wayside till the vultures and the jackalls should pick his
bones. Neither do we read that he was a general at the head of an

advancing army, and that the poor sufferer was one of his own rank

and file, crippled and wounded by disease, watching, as many a poor
soldier does, his commander march past to victory, while he was left alone
to die. Still less do we hear that the sufferer was the child of some
soldier's wife, or even of some drunken camp follower, who had lost her

place on the baggage-waggon, and trudged on with the child at her

           Human Soot.                                     323

back, through dust and mire, till in despair she dropped her little one,

and left it to the mercies of the God who gave it. In either case the

IGood Samaritan would have known what his duty was ; and trust

that  you  will know, in like case,  what your duty is.    to these children
           is not this, and some     other, your relation
   "  For

in your streets ? ragged, dirty, profligate, untaught, perishing -- of whom

our Lord has said, ' It is not the will of your Father in Heaven that

one of these little ones should perish. It is not His will. I am sure
Ithat it is not your will either. I believe that, with all my heart. do not

blame you, or the people of Liverpool ; nor the people of any city on earth

in our present imperfect state of civilization, for the evidence among
them of brutal, ignorant, degraded, helpless people. It is no one's
fault, just because it is every one's fault -- the fault of the system : but it is
not the will of God, and therefore the existence of such an evil is proof

patent and sufficient that we have not yet discovered the whole will of

God about this matter ; that we have not yet mastered the laws of true
political economy, which (like all other natural laws) are the will of
God revealed in facts. Our processes are hasty, imperfect, barbaric ; and

their result is vast and rapid production, but also waste, refuse, in the

shape of a dangerous class. We know well how, in some manufac
tures, a certain amount of waste is profitable --that it pays better to let

certain substances run to refuse, than to use every product of the
manufacture -- as in a steam-mill every atom of soot is so much wasted

fuel ; but it pays better not to consume the whole fuel and to let the soot

escape. So it is in our present social system ; it pays better. Capital
is accumulated more rapidly by wasting a certain amount of human life,

human health, human intellect, human morals, by producing and throwing

away a regular per-centage of human soot --of that thinking and acting

dirt which lies about, and, alas ! breeds and perpetuates itself in foul
alleys and low public-houses, and all and any of the dark places of the

earth. But as in the case of the manufactures, the Nemesis comes
swift and sure. As the foul vapours of the mine and manufactory

destroy vegetation and injure health, so does the Nemesis fall on the

world of man -- so does that human soot, those human poison gases,

infect the whole society which has allowed them to fester under its feet.
Sad; but not hopeless. Dark; but not without a gleam of light in the

horizon.

   " I can yet conceive a time when, by improved chemical science,

every foul vapour which now escapes from the chimney of a manufactory,

polluting the air, destroying the vegetation, shall be seized, utilized,
converted into some profitable substance, till the Black Country shall

be black no longer, and the streams once more run crystal clear, the trees
                                                                                                                         y2

324 Charles Kings ley.

be once more luxuriant, and the desert which man has created in his
haste and greed, shall, in literal fact, once more blossom as the rose.

And just so can I conceive a time when, by a higher civilization,

founded on political economy, more truly scientific, because more truly

according to the will of God, our human refuse shall be utilized like

our material refuse, when man as man, even down to the weakest and

                                                                          so valuable that
most ignorant, shall be found to be (as he really                     is)
                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                       it
will be worth while to preserve his health, to the level of his capabilities,

to save him alive, body, intellect, and character, at any cost because

men will see that man after all, the most precious and useful thing
in the earth, and that no cost spent on the development of human
I
                            a
                                           is,
 can possibly       be thrown
appeal, then,
                    to you (if
Ifbei"ngs                                       away.  be  any  such  in  this  congregation),
                                                there

the commercial men of Liverpool.                           not, appeal to their wives and
                                                       I
                                                           I
daughters, who are kept in wealth, luxury, refinement, by the honour
able labours of their husbands, fathers, brothers, on behalf of this

human soot. The merchants are, and believe they deserve to be, the

leaders of the great caravan which goes forth to replenish the earth and

subdue  they are among the generals of the great army which wages
I
           it
                  ;
                     I
war against the brute powers of nature all over the world, to ward off

poverty and starvation from the ever-teeming millions of mankind.
Have they no time -- take for granted they have the heart --to pick

up the footsore and weary, who have fallen out of the march, that they

may rejoin the caravan, and be of use once more                           Have they no time
-- am sure they have the heart --to tend the wounded and the fever- ?
                                                                       ?
Ifstricken, that they may rise and fight once more                        not, then must not

the pace of their march be somewhat too rapid; the plan of their campaign

somewhat precipitated and ill -directed their ambulance train and their
                                                       ;
                                                                 ?  We are all ready enough
medical arrangements somewhat defective

to complain of the waste of human bodies brought about by such
defects in the British army. Shall we pass over the waste-- the heredi

tary waste of human souls brought about by similar defects in every
great city in the world -- waste of human souls, human intellect, human
character -- waste, saddest of all, of the image of God in little children.
I

                            ;

                                    is
                                            a?
That cannot be necessary. There must be fault somewhere. It
                                                       I
                                                          I

                                                                          a
                                                                                         is

                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                               is
cannot be the will of God that one little one should perish by commerce

or by manufacture, any more than by slavery or by war. As surely as

believe that there                              God, so surely do believe that commerce the

ordinance of God, that the great army of producers and distributors

God's army but for that very reason must believe that the produc
tion of human refuse, the waste of human characters,
                                                                                not part of
God's plan, not according to His ideal of what our social state should

      Civilization and Barbarism in close Contact.                             325

be, and therefore of what our social state can be. For God asks no im

possibilities of a human being. But as things are, one has only to go

into the streets of this or any great city to see how we, with all our

boast of civilization, are as yet but one step removed from barbarism. Is

that a hard word ? Only there are the barbarians around us, at every

street corner --grown barbarians, it may be, now all but past saving --

but bringing into the world young barbarians, whom we may yet save,

for God wishes us to save them. It is not the will of our Father in

Heaven that one of these should perish   Do not deceive your
Ifselves about the little dirty offensive children in the street.
                                                                               they be
offensive to you ; they are not to Him who made them. ' Take heed

Ithat ye despise not one of these little ones, for say unto you, their

....angels do always behold the face of your Father which is in Heaven.
           Their souls are like their bodies, not perfect, but beautiful
enough, and fresh enough to shame any one who shall dare to look down

upon them. Their souls are like their bodies, hidden by the rags, foul

with the dirt, of what we miscall civilization. But take them to the pure

stream ; strip off the ugly shapeless rags ; wash the young limbs again,

and you shall find them, body and soul, fresh and lithe, graceful and

capable --capable of how much, God alone, who made them, knows.
Well said the great Christian poet of your northern hills of such --

                                      ' Not in entire forgetfulness,
                                       Nor yet in utter nakedness,

                                 But trailing clouds of glory do they come
                                     From God who is their home.'

Truly, too truly, alas ! he goes on to say --

                               ' Shades of the prison house begin to close
                                     Around the growing boy. '

Will  you     let the shades of that prison-house of mortality be peopled
with  little  save obscene ghosts? Truly, and too truly, he goes on--

              ' The youth who ever farther from the east
                Must travel -- still is nature's priest,
                And by the vision splendid
                Is on his way attended.'

Will you leave the youth to know nature only in the sense in which an

ape or a swine knows  and to conceive of no more splendid vision
              '

                       it,
                                             a

                                                                 it
                                                                            ?
than that which he may behold      at    penny theatre
                                   he
   " Truly, again, and too truly,      goes on --

              At last the man perceives  die away,
              And fade into the light of common day.' *

              · Wordsworth's Ode, " Intimations of Immortality."

326 Charles Kings ley.

Yes ; to poor, weak, mortal man the prosaic age of manhood must needs

come for evil as well as for good. But will you let that age be-- to any of
your fellow-citizens -- not an age of rational prose, but an age of brutal
recklessness, while the light of common day for him has sunk into the
darkness of a common sewer ? And all the while it was not the will of

..."your Father in Heaven that one of these little ones should perish

Want of space forbids more than these extracts from this noble

sermon, which has never been published ; and we now return
to the letters for the year. Among them are two on " Woman's
             "
Rights          the  date of the  last  is  uncertain,  but both  are significant
            ;

of his latest views on this question.

                     TO MRS. PETER TAYLOR.

                                                        CHESTER, May 27, 1870.

  I" have the honour of acknowledging your letter respecting the
IWomen's Suffrage Question. If I, as one who has the movement at

heart more intensely than choose to tell any one, and also as one who

is not unacquainted with the general public opinion of England, might
dare to give advice, it would be, not in the direction of increased

activity, but in that of increased passivity. Foolish persons have ' set

up the British Lion's back,' with just fears and suspicions. Right-

minded, but inexperienced persons, have set up his back with unjust
I(though pardonable) fears and suspicions.
                                                        do not hesitate to say,

that a great deal which has been said and done by women, and those

who wish to support women's rights, during the last six months, has
Ithrown back our cause.           will not, nay, I utterly decline to, enter into
details. But that what I say is true, I know, and know too well. We

shall not win by petitions. The House of Commons cares nothing
for them. It knows too well how they can be got up, and takes for

gra"ntBeyd  that we shall get up ours in    the same way.   now are too com
            pamphleteering we shall not     win. Pamphlets

mon. They melt on the debauched and distracted sensorium of the

public, like snow on water. By quiet, modest, silent, private influence,

we shall win. ' Neither strive nor cry, nor let your voice be heard in
Ithe streets,' was good advice of old, and is still.
                                                            have seen many a

movement succeed by               have seen many movement tried by the
I
                                       it.
                       I
                                                                                   a
                                                                                           a

                                                                I
other method, of striving, and crying, and making noise in the street.

But have never seen one succeed thereby, and never shall.                                     do not

                      Woman's Rights.                   327

hesitate to say, that unless this movement is kept down to that tone of

grace, and modesty, and dignity, which it would always be by you,

madam, were you the only leader, and which would make it acceptable

to the mass of cultivated and experienced, and therefore justly powerful,
Englishmen and Englishwomen, it will fail only by the fault of its

Isup"porwtearrsn. you of a most serious danger.  I have found that when the

question has been put in its true, practical, rational light, to men and
women who had the greatest horror of it from prejudice, their con

sciences and reasons gave way at once, and they were ready to submit

and agree. But I have found, alas ! that within a week, some one or

other had said or done something premature, or even objectionable,

which threw back the process of conversion. This is the true cause of

our seemingly unexpected failure. And I entreat you, as one who
Inever by word or deed, as far as have known, have contributed to
Ithat failure, and for whom have so profound a respect, to control,

instead of exciting, just now, those over whom you have, and ought

to have, influence."

   About this time Mr. John Stuart Mill, hearing that Mr. Kings-
ley had withdrawn more or less from the movement, wrote to ask

him his reasons. The mode of procedure of some of its advo

cates had shocked him so, that he refused to attend any meetings,

and the only branch of the subject to which he willingly gave
his influence latterly was the Medical education of women, which
he had held for years (long before the question of " Women's
Suffrage " was mooted) was one of the deepest importance, and
which to the last had his entire sympathy.

                      TO JOHN STUART MILL, ESQ.

" My dear Mr. Mill,                                     Chester.

" As you have done me the unexpected honour of asking my
opinion on an important matter, I can only answer you with that frankness
which is inspired by confidence and respect. 1. I do not think that

ladies speaking can have had, or can have, any adverse influence. You
Iused, I doubt not, your usual wisdom in opposing Miss
                                                        's speaking

at a public meeting, and, as yet, but only as yet, should think such a
move premature. That I think women ought to speak in public, in
any ideal, or even truly civilized society and polity, I hope I need not

328 Charles Kingsley.

tell you. My fear                  not so much that women should speak, as who
                     is
the women are who speak       is,                                                            is in

   " There exist, in all ranks of the English, and in none more than

the highest rank, women brave, prudent, pure, wise, tried by experience

and sorrow, highly cultivated and thoughtful too, whose influence

immense, and         always exercised for good, as far as they see their

way. And unless we can get these, of all ranks, and in each rank,

down to the very lowest, to be the leaders of fashion,' for good, instead
                                         I'
of evil, we shall not succeed.                   Iam pained, in very large acquaint
                                                                   it a
                                                     I
ance of all ranks, to find the better rather than the worse women againstI if

....us, to find that foolish women, of no sound or coherent opinions, and                              a it in
of often questionable morals                are inclined to patronise us

the most noisy and demonstrative way.                              am aware of the physical

and psychical significance of this fact.       know, and have long foreseen,

that what our new idea has to beware of, lest should be swamped

thereby, hysteria, male and female. Christianity was swamped by
I
                 isfrom at least the third to the sixteenth century, and we wish to save

ourselves from the same terrible abyss, and to-- quote my dear

friend Huxley's words, with full agreement, though giving them'

broader sense than he would as yet-- to reconstruct society accord

ing to science,' we must steer clear of the hysteric element, which

define as the fancy and emotions unduly excited by suppressed
sexual excitement. It all the more necessary to do this,
                     II I '                                        I                         we
                           I                                            I
                                                                          I
                                     is                                          if

                                                                                                    a
intend to attack social evils,' i.e., sexual questions, by the help of

woman raised to her proper place. That you mean to do so take for
Ifgranted. That do, hope you take for granted.
                                                                   not, should be

glad some day to have the honour of talking over with you this whole

matter, on which have long thought, and on which have arrived at

conclusions which keep to myself as yet, and only utter as Greek,

fywavra truverdia,, the principle of which                         that there will never be
                                         is
good world for woman, till the last monk, and therewith the last rem;

nant of the monastic idea of, and legislation for, woman, i.e., the canona
                                                              is,
law, civilized off the earth.if is
   " Meanwhile, all the most pure and high-minded women in England,

and in Europe, have been brought up under the shadow of the canon

law, have accepted   it,           with their usual divine self-sacrifice, as their

                         I it,
destiny by law of God and nature and consider their own womanhood
                                            meddled with. It
outraged, when       their tyrant,                                 is  to them, there

fore,         we wish (as          do) for  social revolution, that we must

address ourselves mildly, privately, modestly, rationally. Public meet

ings drive them away, for their experiences, difficulties, wrongs, are too

sacred to be detailed even before women of whom they are not sure,

                                 "Emancipated Women."                                      329

much more before men, most of all before a press, which will report,

and next morning cynically comment on, the secrets of their hearts. A
free press -- with all its innumerable advantages -- is the great barrier (I

say it to you deliberately) to the moving in this matter of that great mass

of matrons for whom, in the long run, the movement is set on foot ;

and by whom alone it can be carried out. At least, so it seems to me,
who fight, not for the maiden so much as for the matron, because, if

the mother be benefitted, the child is benefitted in her. And therefore
.... II deprecate the interference in this movement of unmarried women.
      But see with pain this movement backed up by                                         , and

   , and by other men and women who, unknown themselves to the

English nation, and knowing nothing of and its actual opinions and
                                            it,
habits for good or evil, in word, sectarians (whether they knowa                                       it
or not), seem ready to scramble back into society which they have in
                                    if
some cases forfeited, by mixing themselves up with questions which                                     it
                                         a                                                                is

not for such as they to speak of, either in the study or the forum.                                    I

object, also, to the question of woman's right to vote or to labour, and

above all, to woman's right to practise as physicians and surgeons, being

mixed up with social, i.e., sexual questions. Of woman's right to be                                   a

medical practitioner,            I  hold (as perhaps you may do me the honour to

be aware) that  it               perhaps the most important social question hanging
                     is

over us.   believe that                   once women can be allowed to practise as
   a
freely as men, the whole question of the relation of the sexes, according
       I
to natural laws, and, therefore, according to what believe to be the will
                                                   I

                                                                       a.

                                                                                        .
and mind of God, the author of nature [will be made clear]. . But for
that very reason, am the more anxious that women should not meddle
                I

with these sexual questions, first, before they have acquired sound, and

also general, scientific physiological training, which shall free them from

sentiment, and confine them to physical laws and fact, on these matters.

Second, before they have so accustomed the public to their ministrations,

as to show them that they are the equals of men in scientific knowledge

and practical ability (as they are) and more, that they know, as women,
                                            ;

                                                      I
                                                                     a
                                                                                 a
   hundred woman's secrets, which no one but woman can know truly,
a
                   it            disgrace to modern civilization that man should have
                          is
                              a
and which

the right of trying to interpret. Therefore deprecate, most earnestly,

all the meddling, however pure-minded, humane, &c., which women

have brought to bear on certain questions during the last six months.

   do not say that they are wrong. Heaven forbid But do say, that
I                                           it

                                                I
                                                                                      !

                                                                 I
                                                                       I

                                                                                                  it)
by so doing they are retarding,             may be for generations, the cause

which they are trying to serve. And do say (for have seen                                              that

they are thereby mixing themselves up with the fanatical of both

sexes with the vain and ambitious, and worst of all, with the prurient.
   ;

330 Charles Kingsley.

IPrurience, sir, by which mean lust, which, unable to satisfy itself in act,

satisfies itself by contemplation, usually of a negative and seemingly virt

uous and Pharisaic character, vilifying, like St. Jerome in his cell at Bethle
hem, that which he dare not do, and which after all, only another form
of hysteria -- that the evil which we have to guard against, and we shall
not do so, unless we keep about this whole movement tone of modesty,
                 is                      it
delicacy, lofty purity, which (whateveris        is,

                                                     it.
                                                                    a
                                         knows, and perhaps                     knows
                                                                                it

                                                                                      I
all) will not, and dare not, talk aloud about                   That tone will not be

kept, we allow the matrons, and after them the maidens (by whom
   I
mean women still under the influence of their fathers and mothers,) or
      if
women having by their own property a recognised social position, to be

turned out of sight in this movement by emancipated women.
   " know that the line                  '

                                                     I
                                                                             '
                                       very difficult to draw.                see how we must

be tempted to include, nay, to welcome as our best advocates, women

who are smarting under social wrongs, who can speak on behalf of

freedom with an earnestness like that of the escaped slave. But feel
                                       ;

                                                                 I
                                                                      I
that we must resist that temptation that our strength lies not in the
abnormal, but in the normal type of womanhood. And must say,

that any sound reformation of the relations between woman and man,

must proceed from women who have fulfilled well their relations as

they now exist, imperfect and unjust as they are. That only those who
have worked well in harness, will be able to work well out of harness
                                                                I

                                                                                        it

                                                                                                               ;
and that only those that have been (as tens of thousands of women are

every day) rulers over                 few things will be fit to  be rulers over many
things; and hold this
            '                          -- in justice to myself      must say -- not

             I

                                   'a
merely on grounds 'theological' so-called, but on grounds without
which the theological weigh with me very little --grounds material
and physiological -- on that voluntatem Dei in rebus revelatam, to which

I  try, humbly though confusedly, to submit all my conclusions.

   " Meanwhile,  shall do that which have been doing for years past.
               aI                      in

                             in         I
Try to teach noble freedom, to those whom           I             see most willing,

                                                       it I

                                                                      is

                                                                  I
                                                                         I
faithful, conscientious          their slavery, through the path of self-sacrifice;

and to influence their masters likewise, to see in that self-sacrifice some
thing far more divine than their own self-assertion. To show them that

wherever man and wife are really happy together,                                by ignoring and

despising, not by asserting, the subordination of woman to man, which
they hold in theory. To set forth every book write (as have done
for twenty-five years) woman as the teacher, the natural and therefore
divine, guide, purifier, inspirer of the man. And so, perhaps, may
be as useful to the cause of chivalry, dear equally to you and me, as

iIf  attended many meetings, and spoke, or caused to be spoken, many

speeches."

Antiquity of Tropical Vegetation and of Man. 331

                           TO SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                     Chester, May 28, 1870.

I" I was pleased and ashamed to see your handwriting.            forgot to

write to you, in the bustle not only of getting home myself, but of

starting Maurice off to the Rocky Mountains with the now famous

Dr. Bell, and then of getting to Chester, and settling ourselves in
                           IPray forgive me.
our new sphere of work.                                  am very sorry the

plants are no better than they are.              But the great majority had

to be 'dried' in an atmosphere charged with water, in timber and

palm ajoupas in the bush, and carried either at my back, or jammed
among clothes in an Indian basket, on a negro's back. I am very

glad that the Utricularias are safe. You will remark with them some
specimens of the true Drosera longifolia. When I got that, my first
thought was of you, and, indeed, I was thinking of you, and longing
Ifor your company, continually.
                                                 trust you will do me the honour to

look at my sketch of the first sight of the primeval forest in the forth
coming ' Good Words.' I know how feeble and defective it but
Ifall can say.                                   I

                                                          I,

                                                               I

                                                                                       is,

                                                                               I

                                                                                                  it
                                                                                                      is
I                          you see any mistakes, hope you will point them out
      I
               I
to me.       have many things to say to you, when can have speech

with you. All have seen points to an antiquity, not only for average

tropical vegetation, but for tropical man, far more vast than had
Ifsuspected.
              it           were proved that civilized races flourished at the equator

during the miocene epoch, or even earlier, for one, should not be

surprised."

                                                                    Chester, June 10, 187a
" am glad to have your opinion on my poor stuff. As for the
I
absence of leaf mould, saw all over Trinidad.            picked dead trees
    is                     I                             aI I
open for saprophagous insects, but found few or none.II       I  must ask Bates
      I
          I                            it
(who coming to us this summer) what his experience is. Perhaps youis
would kindly, as being in the centre of information, get evidence from

other men.    should be sorry to put in hasty generalization. Of the
                                                 aa
local fact am certain. You guess rightly that the Brinvilliers con
nected with the cinchona. It                                                    is
                                                 Rubiaceous, Spigelia anthelmia.
                                                                                   II
have avoided, in these letters, putting in more scientific names than

can help. When the book comes out as whole, shall of course state

the whole of what little know. The Obeah poisoners do not use

Euphorbiaceae in general, believe, as being too acrid and violent.                It I

could not get any account of the symptoms produced by spigelia.

sometimes given in small doses as an anthelmintic
is
                       is
" Maurice                  off to New Mexico, surveying  stretch of land, and

33 2 Charles Kings ley.
hopes to get permanent employment soon. Meanwhile he is full of
health and hope, and, I doubt not, will do well."

                            TO W. HUTCHINS CALLCOTT, ESQ.

"... Chester, Junt 12, 1871.
          It is a pleasant surprise to me that you should know anything

about my birthday : a more pleasant one that you should care to
Iremember it.
                            thank you heartily for the really learned and able
Ibook * which you have sent me.
                                               was not aware that the truly great
Robert Brown -- ' notre maitre d tout '-- had assisted in its development.

IIt
is   impossible             to have a stronger guarantee for its worth                                                  you          and
                            the passage from the ' Fairy Queen,' + both
"   To explain

ought to have long reading in the mystic realists of the Middle Age,
Iand again of the Renaissance. cannot explain
                                                                        because the very little
                                                                     it,
knew of such lore, have forgotten utterly.
I                           I                                             if
                                 I
                         '
                                           if
"With regard to the bird mentioned by Nieremberg in 1635, and

called the Triton Avis,' don't know word. But you will write to
                                               if a
Mr. Gould, and use my name, any man on earth can tell you, he can.

Moreover, his knowledge of the notes of birds, as well as their natural

history, something marvellous and he sees you want to learn, he will
         is                    I;

enjoy telling you everything.      trust that our friendship may last many

years."

                            TO PROFESSOR MAX MULLER.

                                                     Eversley, August                                                            8,  1870.

" Accept my loving congratulations to you and your people. The

day which dear Bunsen used to pray, with tears in his eyes, might not
come till the German people were ready, has come, and the German

people are ready.

* Lady Callco"tt'sThe"SfcrraimpeturteherHeeofrbsaeel.m"ed partly circulare,
             t

                                                             ;
                                                                         a
                                                                                     a
                                                                                                            ;; !
                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                       ;
                            And part triangulare O worke divine

                            Those two the first and last proportions are

                            The one imperfect, mortall, faminine,

                            Th' other immortall, perfect, masculine

                            And t'wixt them both quadrate was the base,

                            Proportion'd equally by seven and nine

                            Nine was the circle sett in heaven's place
                              All which compacted made goodly diapase."
         Book               II., canto ix., stanza xxii., quoted in Hawkins's                                        "  History  of Music.  "

                       France and the Rhine.                                                                                    333

"Verily God is just ; and rules, too, whatever the press may think to

the   contrary.        lest the Germans should think of Paris, which

   "  My only
G                fear

       ,I
                                      is,
                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                             a
cannot concern them, and turn their eyes away from that which does

concern them, the re-taking Elsass (which           their own), and leaving

the Frenchman no foot of the Rhine-bank. To make the Rhine word

not to be mentioned by the French henceforth, ought to be the one

object of wise Germans, and that alone. In any case, with love to dear

           am yours, full of delight and hope for Germany."

                       TO SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                                EVersley, August 31, 187O.
" am very much obliged to you for sending me the list of plants
I                                                                                                                               I;
    II Ifear cost you much trouble. But think you know enough of the
       I it
          a a iIfdifficulties of collecting in the wet season, to pardon the bad state of
some specimens. In fact, soon found that, where the flora was end
                  Iless, and all new, must give up every other source of information and
                          I
                                    aI I
                                                it I
interest,        intended to collect all saw, and so only picked certain

things which struck me, and too often lost them again. In one case

upset my box at my back, and lost dozen new specimens at least, in

hunting great blue morpho in thick scrub.              am surprised, indeed,

that have brought home as many as forty-nine species at all verifiable.
   " miss among your list an Eleocharis, as seemed to me, off the

shore of lagoon, near mangroves, &c, which seemed to me identical,
or close to, an English form. This may be the Scirpus which you men

tion.      see Griesbach says that his Sc. (E.) exiguus has the habit of

our E. acicularis, and hisa          mitratus the habit of our E. palustris.
                                 S.
The plant struck me as remarkable instance of the similarity,       I                                                           not

identity, of marsh plants throughout all lands.  it I  looked in vain for ourif

Typha angustifolia, common in lagoons, but             was probably not in

flower. The Artanthes, of which have, find, brought one home, and
                                     I       I

                                         is
Enckeas, struck me much, as also the allied Pothomorphe. Cephaelis

tomentosa, am delighted to find, new to you.           It         very handsome,
I
     II                                                    is is
                                                                 a
            IIthe red involucrum, with its double blue berry, very showy among the
large leaves. It grows about thirty-five feet high, and
                                                                    very common

ornament of all openings in the primeval woods. A Palicourea, recol

lect, got.       am very glad that Amasonia     is  in good order. It                                                           is
                                                                                                                                    a

                                                       :

                                                             in
glorious thing, its very spike blazing among poor grass sandy swamp.
   know that there was flower of Ipomea bona-nox but they must be
                       a

picked at night, and dried instantly in glazed paper, or all shrivels.                                                          I

think had an Evolvulus. Was there not also specimen of Spondia
                                                    a

334 Charles Kingsley.

glabra ? But if I had collected all I saw of that family, my work would

have been manifold. Tecoma stans is probably there, being common,

but the glory of the island is Poui (Tecoma serratifolia), a mighty timber
tree like an ash, which just as we left began to blaze all over with

saffron-flowers, which we could not reach, making a striking object in

the landscape. The Utricularia were labelled by Prestoe, the govern

Iment botanist (as were all the rest). But warn you that he says he

can make nothing of many of Griesbach's species, especially in palms,

and poor Kruger refused absolutely to commit himself to species at all.

I sometimes suspected (and have done so still more since I came home)

that the number of variable, i.e., of actually now varying, species in the

tropic woods is very great, owing to the ruthless and rapid competition

for life, and that we must commit ourselves to their permanence as little

as possible. Jacquinea armillaris (which yields beads for necklaces,
and has a delicious fragrance, lasting for days after the bough is cut)
should be in our hot-houses. Echites and Allamandas were very

numerous. Drosera longifolia set me meditating much. Hooker

ascribes its appearance there, and elsewhere in tropic America, to its

Ibeing carried by water-fowl, and see no other possible cause. Passi-

flora sanguinea, I remember. Paritium tiliaceum (and here Mahant) is

a common bush of the beach, with Coccoloba uvifera. Phytolacca

icosandra has all the look of an introduced plant, always about old

clearings. I forget the Polygalas, and hope to see them with you at
IBarton some day. Ilex sideroxyloides (according to Prestoe) found

(for the first time in the island) on the little islands of the Pitch Lake,
with Chrysobalanus pellocarpus. Alas ! for the Melastomacese ! To have

collected all I saw was impossible ; to remember a few which I saw (of the

large-leaved forms) is a perpetual pleasure. The Leguminosae which are

in the collection I do not recollect. But I hope to talk all over with you,

and if you do me the honour to read my little book, when it comes out at

Christmas in an extended and corrected form, you will see that at least

I did not go about with my eyes shut. I send you by post a pamphlet

which will explain itself. You will see from the lists of trees, &c, at
the end, how vast are the vegetable resources of this single island. In

the last list, you will see a mark on the left hand of the page, against

I Ieach tree which saw, whether ' verified ' them botanically or not.
IYou will be surprised at some omissions. For instance, never saw, to
Imy knowledge, Hymenaea Courbaril, though must have ridden under

dozens or hundreds. Such piecemeal work does one do in the world.
I" And now a few words on this awful war.
                                           confess to you, that
were I a German, I should feel it my duty to my country to send my last

son, my last shilling, and after all, my own self to the war, to get that

                     The Wrongs of Germany.                                                                                   335

done which must be done, done so that it will never need doing again.

I Itrust that should be able to put vengeance out of my heart --to for

get all that Germany has suffered for two hundred years past, from

that vain, greedy, restless nation ; all even which she suffered, women

as well as men, in the late French war : though the Germans do not for

get and some of them, for their mothers' or aunts' sakes, ought not.
But the average German has right to say -- Property, life, freedom, has
it,
                                              a

                                                                                                 :

been insecure in Germany for two hundred years, because she has been

divided. The French kings have always tried to keep her divided, that

they might make her the puppet of their ambition. Since the French

Revolution, the French people (all of them who think and act, viz., the

army and the educated classes) have been doing the same. They shall
do so no longer. We will make impossible for her to interfere in the
internal affairs of Germany. We will make an offence on her part --
after Alfred de Musset's brutal song -- to mention the very name of the
                         it
                           it

                                            it
Rhine. As for the present war, was inevitable, soon or late. The

French longed for it. They wanted to revenge 1813-15, ignoring the
                      was then avenging --and                                                       very gently -- 1807.
fact  that Germany   -- have seen the tears in                                                                          '   Bunsen
used   to say to me  ;I                                                                             his eyes as he said
                                                                                                                          it -- that

the war must come that he only prayed God that might not come till
                                                               '
                                                                              is

                                                                                 it
Germany was prepared, and had recovered from the catastrophes of the
great French war. It has come, and Germany prepared -- and would

that the old man were alive, to see the battle of Armageddon,' as he

called fought, not as he feared on German, but on French soil.it,                                                             It

must have come. The Germans would have been wrong to begin                                                                    it

                                                                                                                                  ;

Ifbut when the French began, they would have been niddering for ever                                '

not to have accepted     man persists for years in brandishing his
                         it.
                             ;a

                                    a
                                                a
fist in your face, telling you that he will thrash you some day, and that
you dare not fight him -- wise man will, like Germany, hold his tongue
till he
       a      actually struck but he will, like Germany, take care to be
         isfor what will come. As for Prussia's
ready       sort of sin on her part -- proof that                                                   being prepared for war,
being                                                                                               she intended to attack

France, such an argument only proves the gross ignorance of history,
especially of German history, which remark in average Englishmen.
                         '

                           I
Gross ignorance, too, or willing oblivion of all that the French have been

threatening for years past, about rectifying their frontier.' The Ger

mans had fair warning from the French that the blow would be struck
some day. And now that
                         struck, to turn the other cheek in meek
                     '

                                      ' it
                                          is

                                                            a
ness may be very Christian towards man's self; but most unchristian,

base, and selfish, towards his women, his children, and his descendants

yet unborn. There can be no doubt that the French programme of this

war was, to disunite Germany once more, and so make her weak and at

336 Charles Kingsley.

the mercy of France. And a German who was aware of that -- as all
sensible Germans must have been aware -- had to think not of the text

which forbids us to avenge private injuries, but of that which says 'They
                                                        '
that  take  the sword  shall  perish  by the sword    ;    not  of  the                                              bodily agony

and desolation of the war, but of Him who said, ' Fear not them that
can kill the body,' and after that have nothing left to do ; but fear him --

the demon of selfishness, laziness, anarchy, which ends in slavery, which

can kill both body and soul in the hell of moral and political degradation.

As for this being a ' dynastic war,' as certain foolish working men are
saying -- who have got still in their heads the worn-out theory that only

kings ever go to war --it is untrue. It is not dynastic on the part of

Germany. It is the rising of a people from the highest to the lowest,

who mean to be a people, in a deeper sense than any republican demo
crat -- French or English, ever understood that word. It is not dynastic

on the part of France. The French Emperor undertook it to save his
own dynasty ; but he would never have done so, if he had not been of

opinion (and who knows the French as well as he ?) that it would not
be a dynastic war, but a popular one. Else, how could it save his

throne ? What could it do but hasten his fall, by contravening the feel

ings of his people ? But it did not contravene them. Look back at the

papers, and you will find that Paris and the army (which between them,
alas ! constitute now the French people) received the news of war with

a delirium of insolent joy.           have  received       Trulla's answer to Hudi-
   " They were mistaken, and

bras :--

                       I' QOAunfodatlhlmysoohuuenr,tivn"agpootuonrldihnigsyotuvriuletnhkisscauwsmtor.iud"led,' come

The Emperor was mistaken,                   in spite of all his cunning.
He fancied that after deceiving the French people -- after governing

them by men who were chosen because they could, and dared deceive,

that these minions of his, chosen for their untruthfulness, would be

true, forsooth, to him alone ; that they would exhibit, unknown, in

a secret government, virtues of honesty, economy, fidelity, patriotism,

which they were forbidden to exercise in public, where their only func

tion was, to nail up the hand of the weather-glass, in order to ensure fine

weather ; as they are doing to this day in every telegram. So he is

justly punished, as all criminals are, by his own crimes, and God's judg

ments are, as always, righteous and true. . . .

   " I confess that Bismarck's explanations about this secret treaty were

to me satisfactory. Those who complain of him for concealing it

              Bismarck and the French Emperor.                                                                                      337

should recollect that he dreaded immediate war with France if he

divulged     probably he absolutely refused to entertain                                                                            and that
aa                                                                                                                 if

      I it,                                                                                                           it
                    is,
                                                                                                                           ;
                       if if
                                                                                                                         II
                                                is is
Prussia, panting and bleeding from the struggle of 1866, was not ready

for fresh war against France, which Germany, to the last three weeks,

supposed (like the rest of the world) to be more powerful than she is.
My suspicion
                           that when all               over, and can be seen more en masse,

at reasonable distance, Bismarck will not look the worst figure in

Europe. foresee, Germany absolutely victorious, great and whole

some changes in public opinion here and abroad. But of that must

write hereafter. To speak now would be to count our chickens before

they are hatched, and this letter has run to an absurd length.                                                                      must

beg you to pardon because                                           comfort to me to have one like
             aI

                         it,
                                            it
                                                 is
                                                           a

                                               I
you to whom can pour out my heart. And think that you showed

my words to German, he would not disagree much with me. Best

love to Lady Bunbury and you, from all my ladies."

                                                                                                               EversLey, September
                                                                                                                   a is I           1870.
" Many thanks for your interesting letter. If you wish for proof of
                                                                                                                            a
my guess that Germans would agree with my historical view, you will
                                                                                                                                      5,
find one, at least, in page of this day's Times,' column 4. As far as
II                                                                                                                              I
            a
                               !
                                                                      5
                                                              in
                                                                                                            '
know the history of those years                                     reference to this question (and

gave set of lectures on them at Cambridge), the facts are accurately

and fairly stated by the Germans therein. Meanwhile, what trepmiTtia

has ensued Since Waterloo, there has been no such event in Europe.

await with awe and pity the Parisian news of the next few days. As

for the Emperor, while others were bowing down to him, never shrank

from expressing my utter contempt of him. His policy                                                               now judged,

and he with                by fact, which  the voice of God revealed in things,'
              ; it,

                   I
                                               is
                                                                 '
as Bacon says and at least, instead of joining the crowd of curs who

worry where they lately fawned, shall never more say harsh word

against him. Let the condemned die in peace possible, and he will                                              if
not, hear, live many months -- perhaps not many days. Why should
I

                        ?
he wish to live This very surrender may be the not undignified fare

well to life of one who knows himself at his last."

To another friend he writes --
              it

                 I
                                                           :

                                                       is,
                                                               ! it

                                                                                it.

                                                                   It

                                                                                             is
                                                                                                            z

                                                                                                           it
" As for the war, dare not give opinion on                                                                         the most im

portant event since the Revolution of 1793, and we are too near

yet to judge of fairly. My belief that will work good for gene

rations to come. But at what an awful price "

vol. 1l.

338 Charles Kingsley.

             TO ALFRED WALLACE, ESQ. F.L.S.

                                                                Eversley, October 22, 1870.

" I have read your ' Essay on Natural Selection ' with equal delight

and profit.
I" wish you would re-consider pages 276 -- 285.
                                                                                               The facts, of
Icourse, are true, as all yours are sure to be ; but have never been

able to get rid of the belief, that every grain of sand washed down by
a river --by the merest natural laws -- is designedly put in the exact

place where it will be needed some time or other ; or that the ugliest

Ibeast (though confess the puzzle here is stranger), and the most

devilish, has been created because it is beautiful and useful to some being

Ior other. In fact, believe not only in ' special providences,' but in
Ithe whole universe as one infinite complexity of special providences.

only ask you to extend to all nature the truth you have so gallantly
asserted for man -- ' That the laws of organic development have been
occasionally used for a special end, just as man uses them for his

spe"ciOalmeitnd'so.'ccaPsiaogneall3y7,'0.and say ' always,' and you will complete your
book and its use. In any case, it will be a contribution equally to
science and to natural theology." *

                    TO MATTHEW ARNOLD.

  " I have at last                                                        Eversley, November 1, 1870.

Anarchy,' and here  had time to                 read carefully your ' Culture and
                    is my verdict               if you care for
                                                                                  Ia           That                  an
                                                                                         it.I              it
                                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                      a
exceeding wise and true book and likely, as such, to be little listened
II
           I

                                             ;

                                   it

                        II
                                               it
                                                                   ;
                                                                       a
to this autumn,f but to sink into the ground and die, and bear fruit next

spring, when the spring comes. For me, born barbarian, and bred

Hebrew of the Hebrews,                          has been of solid comfort and teaching.

have had for years past an inkling that in Hellenism was our hope.

have been ashamed of myself, as clergyman, when caught myself

saying to myself that had rather have been an old Greek than an

Englishman. Your book has justified me to myself, while                                                it            showed

me where was ungrateful to God and wrong.                                         will not trouble you

with more talk, for will be far worse than that which you can say to

yourself any day but must thank you for the book, as a moral tonic,

* "Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection: A Series of Essays," by
A"lfAreddaptRatuisosnellbroWuaglhlat caeb. out
                                                The chapter referred          to   at pagesis                          headed,
                                                by General Laws."         The     passage                        is  quote.
                                                                                              276-85   to
                                                                                             too long

t  French and Prussian War-time.

          Babel Theories.                                                       339

Ias well as an intellectual purge. Ah, that could see you, and talk
Iwith you. But here am, trying to do my quiet work ; and given up,

now, utterly, to physical science -- which is my business in the Hellenic
direction."

          TO J. FERGUSSON, ESQ.

    1. As to the situation of the various Assyrian cities, p. 67, you seem
perplexed by the necessity of holding that the ' Babel,' whence ' Asghur
Icame forth,' was more or less the same as modern Babylon.
                                                                                do not

think this necessary. It seems to me that the source-point of Assyrian

migration and the site of Babel are to be sought for northwards, among

the passes between North Assyria and the Hindu-Koh. My arguments

Iare these: 1. The Hindu-Koh was, as you will, doubt not, agree, the

source of migration for three great races-- the Semitic, Indo-Germanic,

and Scyth. Why not also for the Melanic ? That the dark Naga races,

driven southward by the Pandors and Brachmans, came from the Hindu-

IKoh, and originally held the Punjab, I suppose there is little doubt.
'consider the sons of Ham,' Migraine, Phut, Canaan, Cush, to be of

the same stock ; and my belief has been corroborated by the fact, for

Iwhich thank you much, that the inhabitants of Mesopotamia, as late

as B.c. 1750, were called Naharaina. Now Genesis says that it was as

they journeyed from the East that they found Shinar and built Babel.

The historic Babel would hardly have been reached by an eastern

journey, except by the all but impossible, and certainly most improbable

(for early migrators with clear ground before them) route through the
South Persian deserts. Whatever Babel may signify, whether ' confu
sion ' or the ' gate of God,' it seems to have been considered by all the
Scripture writers as a sort of mystic epithet, capable of application to all

places or cities in certain circumstances. Without dilating on this, or

adding my crudities to all the nonsense which has been already written

on  iIt,  cannot help feeling that this points to  as class-name, like
                                            '
those of Phrat, Nile, and so forth the latter of which, we know, by itsa
                                it
                                   is ;                it
                                                                    a
                                                                             a

                                                                  I
antiquity, gave rise to the belief that the African Nile rose in India.         I

humbly submit, therefore, that           northward of Nineveh that we must

look for the earliest Assyrian remains, and not in the direction of
Babylon. For the hint of the similarity of Resen and Rasena cannot
sufficiently thank you. It one of those things which, slight in itself,
          a
                    is
sets one hunting in new direction, and makes possible rich disco

very. Long aware of the general spread, through the greater part of
the globe, at some vastly remote epoch, of dark dolicho-kephalic race

mysteriously allied with the earlier Finn tribes, but preceding them,'

340 Charles Kingsley.

Iand of the possible connection of these with the Etruscans,                                   seem to

hav"e2.foYunodur  a new '  straw to show the wind,' and again thank                     you.
                   theory  of the kings who invaded Israel being of                     the Medo-

Arbacid dynasty equally delights me, because it proves (alas ! that it

should need proof !) that the Bible, read honestly, as you would read
any other book, will not be found to be worse written than others, and

will require no frantic theories of commentators to save its reputation

for common sense and honesty. In the present case, the Bible dis

tinctly asserts that these kings, Pul to Sennacherib, were Medians. Elam,

Kir, and Media are the three tribe names mentioned by Isaiah as iden

tical with the Assyrian invaders of his day. I think, if you will read

Isaiah xxi. xxii., you will agree with me. Or rather, let me say, read

that magnificent epic, the first thirty-seven chapters of that prophet,

simply as a piece of history, and you will, I am sure, find several im

portant, and as yet, strange to say, ignored facts about these Medo-

Arbacid conquests standing out clear and unmistakeable. Damascus,

Tyre, Philistia, Edom, and Moab, were (as Hosea, his contemporary,

             ravaged by the Assyrians.
             Shalmaneser failed in taking
If Istat"es)
                                            Tyre, which                    am not quite sure

from Josephus, that he did, Sennacherib did not, according to those

(in my opinion) most faithful historians. Moreover, let Herodotus and
the Egyptian priests say what they will, Isaiah does seem to assert, as

plainly      aEsthaionypiawri(tMerercoaen?,).thatWSheenrneac"heNriob "  was successful  both   in Egypt
and in                                                                                  tell,  having a
                                                                        was I cannot

firm dis-faith in most English commentators, and having no German

reference at hand : but wherever it was, the destruction of one such

city would give a very different notion of his success from Herodotus'

story. But next, and this is very important in my eyes, Isaiah certainly
says, not only that these, ' Elam, Media, and Kir,' who did all this, also
took and destroyed Babylon. It is in vain for commentators, in their

haste, and irreverence for that very letter of Scripture which they so

idolize, to explain this of the destruction of Babylon by Cyrus ; for,

   i. Cyrus did not destroy Babylon, but carefully preserved and in                            it,
spite of Keith and Sir R. Ker Porter's Fulfilments of Prophecy,' was                                it
                             I
                                                                   '
a  g"re2a.t  city for centuries afterwards.
             Isaiah says that the same Medes
                                                                      and  Elamites  who were to de

....stroy Babylon (or, as    think, had actually destroyed her before

Cap. xxxv.              was  wwhriottmen)hewespreokceo--miSnhgebtonaintvhaedetreJuadsueraerd, uwrihnog  the
                  man to                                                                                was
lifetime of the

to be, and actually was, succeeded in his office by Eliakim, the son of

Hilkiah, during Hezekiah's reign. Without wearying you with argu

ments, which, the book hand had been any but that most ill-used
                  if

                                        in

         The Book and its Commentators.                               341

and despised one, the Bible -- would have been needless centuries ago,

I leave the matter to your more experienced judgment, only praying

that you may not have to clear your brain of the same dust-heaps
....of trash, which I had before I became able to let the Book of Books
tell its own story. Two questions remain                              Is there anything in

Scripture to explain the continuance, or rather re-appearance of Babylon
Iafter this utter overthrow ?
                                           think we find it at once in Nabuchodono-
Isor's ' Is not this great Babylon, which  have built ? " which has so

often puzzled commentators. Allowing that all it means is that ' lutcam

invenit marmoream rdiquitj some great bouleversement, or utter change
of place, must have been necessary to make such an expression true.

IYou are far better acquainted than am with the Eastern tyrants'

....fashion of wantonly changing the site of a city and rebuilding the
whole,   so I will add no more on this point ; and answer the

second query. Is this compatible with ' profane ' records ?

   " I think we find, in Ptolemy's canon, if not corroboration, still room

....for such an event. He gives an interregnum from 704 to 702
and again an interregnum between 692 and 688, and a rapid succession
of kings about that time (averaging four years each) which betokens a
disturbed state of affairs. Of these, one Mordakus is evidently the

Merodach of 2 Kings, xx. 12. After him follows an interregnum of

....eight years, and then Asar-Adinus (Esar-haddon, son of Sennacherib ?)
follows  and in 2 Chronicles, xxxiii. 1 1, we find that the captains

of the host of Assyria, took king Manasseh to Babylon, a passage which,

though of course not so important as those of Isaiah or Kings, having

been written probably after the return from Cyrus's captivity, is still

important, as showing the temporary fusion of the Assyrian and Baby
lonian kingships, which would follow on the taking of Babylon by them,

Iand which you, without assigning this cause, hint as possible in p. 52.

  would add one observation more. Is not the discrepancy between

Polyhistor and Syncellus about the Medo-Arbacids very slight ? Were

not the Medes and the Chasdim or Chaldeans cognate northern moun

tain tribes ? And may not some light be thrown on the matter by that

most obscure, but in my eyes most important verse, Isaiah xxiii. 13,
' Behold the land of the Chaldeans : this people was not, till the Assyrian

founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness : they set up the towers

and palaces thereof: and he brought it to ruin.' This latter clause,

Iand the rest indeed, can make nothing of. I trust that you will with

you"rAfgaar insupIebrieosreelecahrnyionug  and acumen.                and to leave it unan
                                           to pardon this intrusion,

swered or not, as shall best please you."


              CHAPTER XXVII.

                                                                1871.
                                                     ACed 52.

Lecture on "The Theology of the Future" at Sion College -- Distri
     bution of Plants-- Expeditions of the Chester Natural Science
    Society-- Lectures on Town Geology -- A Lump of Coal -- Thrift Dis
     tribution --La petitb Culture --The Training of Landlords-- The
     French Peasantry-- Peasant Proprietors-- Race Week at Chester--
     Letters on Betting --Camp at Bramshill -- The Prince of Wales in
     Eversley --Prince of Wales's Illness--Sermon on Loyalty and Sani
    tary Science -- Lecture to Royal Artillery Officers at Woolwich
     --Letter from Colonel Strange, R.A.

   " To conclude, therefore, let no man, out of a weak conceit of sobriety, or an ill-

applied moderation, think or maintain that a man can search too far, or be too well
studied in the book of God's word, or in the book of God's works, divinity or
philosophy, but rather let men endeavour at endless progress or proficience in both."

                                                            BACON, ADVANCEMENT OF LEARNING.

                      CHAPTER XXVII.

   In January he gave a lecture by request at Sion College. The

subject he chose was " The Theology of the Future," * in which
he urged on the clergy the necessity of facing the great scientific
facts of the day, and asserted his own belief in final causes.

   " I wish to speak," he says, " not on natural religion, but on natural
theology. By the first I understand what can be learnt from the physical

universe of man's duty to God and his neighbour ; by the latter I under

stand what can be learned concerning God Himself. Of natural religion
I shall say nothing.     I do not even affirm that a natural religion is
possible ; but I do very earnestly believe that a natural theology is
possible ; and I earnestly believe also that it is most important that

natural theology should, in every age, keep pace with doctrinal or
                         "
ecclesiastical theology

   He goes on to speak of Bishop Butler, Berkeley, and Paley,
the three greatest of our natural theologians, and of the strong
fact, that the clergy of the Church of England, since the founda

tion of the Royal Society in the 17th century, have done more
for sound physical science than the clergy of any other denomi

nation ; and expresses his belief that if our orthodox thinkers

for the last hundred years had followed steadily in their steps,
we should not now be deploring the wide and, as some think,
widening gulf between science and Christianity. He con

siders Goethe's claims to have advanced natural theology as very
much over-rated, but strongly recommends to the younger clergy

   * This lecture, or rather part ofit,incorporated into the preface of his " West
minster Sermons," published in 1874.is

 346 Charles Kingsley.

" Herder's Outlines of the Philosophy of the History of Man "
 as a book, in spite of certain defects, full of sound and precious

 wisdom.

    He speaks of certain popular hymns of the present day as
 proofs of an unhealthy view of the natural world, with a savour
hanging about them of the old monastic theory of the earth
being the devil's planet instead of God's, and gives characteristic
 instances, contrasting their key-note with that of the 104th, 147th,
 and 148th Psalms, and the noble Benedicite Omnia Opera of our
 Prayer-book. Again, he contrasts the Scriptural doctrine about
the earth being cursed with the popular fancies on the same point.
 He speaks of the 139th Psalm as a " marvellous essay on natural
theology," and of its pointing to the important study of embryo
logy, which is now occupying the attention of Owen, Huxley,
and Darwin. Then he goes on to " Race," and " the painful and
tremendous facts " which it involves, which must all be faced ;
believing himself that here, as elsewhere, Science and Scripture
will be ultimately found to coincide. He presses the study of
Darwin's Fertilisation of Orchids (whether his main theory be
true or not) as a most valuable addition to natural theology.
Then, after an eloquent protest against the " child-dream of a
dead universe governed by an absent God," which Carlyle and
even Goethe have " treated with noble scorn," he speaks of that
" nameless, invisible, imponderable," yet seeming omnipresent,
thing which scientific men are finding below all phenomena,
which the scalpel and the microscope can show -- the life which
shapes and makes --that " unknown and truly miraculous ele
ment in nature, the mystery of which for ever engrossing, as it
does, the noblest minded of our students of science, is yet for
ever escaping them while they cannot escape it." He calls on
the clergy to have courage to tell them -- what will sanctify, while
it need never hamper, their investigations --that this perpetual
and omnipresent miracle is no other than the Breath of God :
The Spirit who is The Lord, and The Giver of Life. " Let us
only wait," he says--" let us observe-- let us have patience and
faith. Nominalism, and that ' sensationalism ' which has sprung
from Nominalism, are running fast to seed ; Comtism seems to
me its supreme effort, after which the whirligig of Time may

            Physical Science and the Clergy.                                                                                   347

bring round its revenges ; and Realism, and we who hold the
Realist creeds, may have our turn."

I" sometimes dream," he adds, " of a day when it will be considered

necessary that every candidate for ordination should be required to have

passed creditably in at least one branch of physical science, if it be only
to teach him the method of sound scientific thought. And if it be said

that the doctrine of evolution, by doing away with the theory of creation,

does away with that of final causes--let us answer boldly, Not in the

least. We might accept what Mr. Darwin and Professor Huxley have

written on physical science, and yet preserve our natural theology on

exactly the same basis as that on which Butler and Paley left it. That

            iIt,                    do not deny. That we should have to

                        a

                              iIt,
we should have to develop

relinquish  do."

it Extracts give poor conception of the lecture, which made a                                        it
          it,                                                                                                 it
                         isprofound impression, and, as private letters showed, gave hope
                                              aand comfort to many among those who heard delivered, or                      ;
read afterwards in the pages of " Macmillan's Magazine " and
                                                                                                                       a
reprinting as he did, only year before his death, may be
looked on as his last words on his favourite topic, and last                                                 I it it
                                                                                                                      a'
confession of his faith that, If the clergy would only play the

great " role " which before them, science and the creeds would

one day shake hands.
   Scientific subjects, and especially the distribution of plants,

occupied him much at this time, and the success of his botanical
class at Chester the previous year, decided him to follow up
with geology. He was busy, too, with the proofs of his West

India book " At Last."
   He writes to Sir Charles Bunbury
II
             I

                       I

                                            it
                                                                                           '
                                                                                                  :
" have not seen Sir Charles Lyell's Students' Elements of Geology;

but can believe all the good of which you report.                                                    I     shall need for

geological class, which intend to start at Chester among middle-class                                     '

young men, as started a botany class last year. Neither have yet

see"nBHutoohkoewr'sinnteerwestbinoogk.are the last Transactions of the Linnaean.'
   " The verification of the frankincense trees, on the very shores where

the ancients said that they grew,                is                                                  fresh hint to us to believe
                                                     a

that men of old were not always the inaccurate dreamers which we

have been too apt to consider them. But the fact of the year                                                                   is

348 Charles Kingsley.

Welwitch's discovery of Rhipsalis Cossytha in the interior of Angola.
It is proof positive to me
                                had needed any) of that connexion by
       ')

                 I
                                  (Iif

                                                                              is
                                                                                  ('
land between Tropic Africa and Tropic America, probably south of the

equator, which have long considered, as Murray Distribution of Mam

mals does, most probable. The existence of identical genera in the two

continents, e.g., Ficus, Morus, Musssenda, &c., proof enough for me.

But let me refer you to Welwitch's note at page 35, the Sertum

Angoleuse.            have much to say to you on this subject.                                           am
            ;

              I

                                                    a

                                                                        I
believing more and more in Palaso-tropic belt of land round the

the world and more than suspecting a Palaeo-tropic civilization (at

least  an   horticultural one) thereon, as  testified by        Musa, Zea, &c.
            . Our educational matters       are, thank           Heaven, in excellent
   ".    .
I
    IItrain without School Board. But have no antipathy to one."
                                      I
                           .             if               EVERSLEY, February                   ; 7,I1871.

                            a                                                                         I

                       I
" received your most pleasant letter at Sandringham, whence had

hoped to have come to Barton, even only for an hour or two but

had   to run all the way home yesterday.                  overlooked,                 any difficulties;
        do not think undervalue, or have
   "                                                                                                        a in

the supposed junction of the South American and African lands but
   find just as great difficulties in the other theory of Oliver's, of

junction between the sunken Lemuria' of the Indian Ocean with South
                                '

                                     I

                                                           it.

                                                    I
America vid Polynesia. Not that deny                            rather hold to a past

belt of land all round the tropics, at an immensely remote epoch for
                                                                                                      ;

when see Ravenala (Urania) in Guiana, and another in Madagascar
      I

                   a

(with none between either way), common sense makes me suspect that

the former has travelled from Madagascar to Guiana, or vice versa but
                                                                                               is
at what an antiquity            Before the Andes rose, before humming birds                        ;
                      in
existed, &c.          . When, on the other hand, see the jaguar, ocelot, and
                             !  I
                                          ;I
other spotted cats South America, cannot but suspect them of having

come from Africa, the home of the leopard and                   if                    answered, that

                                                                    it
                                                                         is

the leopard and spotted cats are also Indian, and may have come across

the Pacific, must demur, from the fact that not only no cats, but no
            I

mammals at all are left in Polynesia                      very serious difficulty.
                                if
                                    it

                                                       :

                                                     a
" The fossil horses of South America are equally important evidence,

in my mind, of the theory,      be true that Equus Curvidens nearer

to the Quagga than to any other existing species.
" But
       I    do not insist on my being right.              '                           only ask that the

possibility may be fairly faced. As for the lapse of time, must haveI
                                                                                      I

                                                                                           it
been enormous, on that or on any other theory. When consider the

likenesses, and unlikenesses of the floras of India and of South America,

my dreams carry me back to (dare say) secondary rather than                           '
                                      I

Chester Natural Science Society.                                                                                                                        349

' tertiary ' eras, and to slow mutations of land and water, causing slow
migrations of forms.

TO PROFESSOR MAX MULLER.

                                            EVERSLEY, Jan. 16, 1871.

I" see a letter of my friend Pengelly's in ' Nature,' of Jan. 1 2, about
                              Let me tell you, if you are about to
you and St. Michael's Mount.

answer him, that--
I" 1. Having studied the place, and those coasts, believe that the

present general form of the Mount is owing entirely to rain-wash and

tide-wash. There was land between it and Marazion, and beyond it to

Sa.nd"an2md. uSSc.hiWnc.oefatthhweehofMaleuonuacnotwntaainssestnuhtme, esdianmifteascat,s(gfaeotrneparraegles)se,nptd.reusreinBngut t--wfohrmich   the  flora
                                                                                                                                                  and   size,

there was a period during which oak, &c. forests formed all along the

lowlands close to the sea. Then a subsidence (as between the Mount
and the shore, and a dozen other places,) put those forests far below

low-tide mark : then an elevation which carried them up again close to

low-tide mark, and lifted the beaches, which had been formed behind
them, high and dry. How deep the forests sank I cannot tell. The

last ' sob ' of the earth lifted the beaches above them fifteen or twenty
Ifeet. Of these facts I am as certain as that am alive : so take note
of them. As for time, I know nought of
                              a             always count by hundreds
                                       it.
of thousands of years, and believe man to be of any antiquity which he
                                     I
may be proved to be of."

a  The work at Chester this year assumed larger proportions, for ;
                      athe botanical class of 1870 had been the nucleus of Scientific
Society in 1871; his geological lectures were much more fully          a
attended, not only the number of members increased, but each;
                                                                                                  ;
member was allowed to bring lady friend. Consequently, in
preparation for walks and field lectures, he had to go over the
ground himself day or two before, to get thoroughly acquainted
with its capabilities for geology and botany, and also to arrange
for place of rest and refreshment for the class and in these
researches he was always accompanied by his kind friend, the
Precentor, or some member of the Cathedral body, who were
always ready with loyal and intelligent help. Expeditions now

were taken to more distant spots the railway authorities had to
be consulted about trains -- they, too, gave most willing help

350 Charles Kingsley.

and, at the appointed hour at the place of meeting, a happy party,
numbering sometimes from sixty to a hundred, would find the
Canon and his daughters waiting for them on the platform of the
railway, he with geological hammer in hand, botany box slung
over his shoulder, eager as any of his class for the holiday, but
feeling the responsibility of providing teaching and amusement
(in the highest sense of that word) for so many, who each and all
hung upon his words.

   Those were bright afternoons, all classes mingling together ;
people who had lived next door to each other in Chester for years
perhaps without exchanging a word, now met on equal and
friendly terms, in pursuit of one ennobling object, and found
themselves all travelling in second-class carriages together with
out distinction of rank or position, to return at the end of the
long summer evening to their old city, refreshed and inspirited,

--with nosegays of wild flowers, geological specimens, and

happy thoughts of God's earth and of their fellow creatures.
Perhaps the moral gain was as valuable as the scientific results
of these field lectures, uniting Cathedral and town as they did

in closer bonds.

   The thought of giving importance to the society by adding
honorary members now occurred to the president, and he wrote
to Sir Charles Lyell, Sir Philip Egerton, Dr. Hooker, Professors
Huxley, Tyndall, Hughes, &c., whose distinguished names are
all enrolled in the Chester Natural Science Society.

TO SIR CHARLES LYELL.

CHESTER, June 22, 1871.

I I" have a great favour to ask. Whether you decline or not, am
Isure you will not be angry with me for asking.
                                                 have just started here
a Natural Science Society -- the dream of years. And I believe it will
' march.' But I want a few great scientific names as honorary members.

That will give my plebs, who are men of all ranks and creeds of course,

self-respect ; the feeling that they are initiated actually into the great

freemasonry of science, and that such men as you acknowledge them

as "puIphilsa.ve put into the hands of my geological class, numbering about
sixty, your new ' Students' Elements.' I shall not be rude enough to

                              Gas and Sunbeams /                                    351

Icompliment you on it ; but may say that you seem in it as great as

ever. These good fellows, knowing your name, and using your book,
would have a fresh incentive to work if they but felt that you were con

scious of their existence.
    " Let me then beg for your name, to be proposed by me as an honorary
Imember.
             ask nothing more ; but to give that would be not only to

help them, but to help me, who already feel the drag of the collar (having

to  do  all  myself  as  far  as  te"aYchoinugr  and inspiriting go) very heavy
                                                 most faithful and loyal pupil,
                                                                    "C. KINGSLEY."

   Sir Charles not only gave his name, but some of his most
valuable works to the infant society

   The room hitherto used at the City Library had now to be
given up, and by the Dean's kindness the King's School was

used as lecture-room. A preliminary lecture on the subject of

physical science was followed by six, which will never be for
gotten in Chester, on The Soil of the Field, The Pebbles in the
Street, The Stones in the Wall, The Coal in the Fire, The Lime

in the Mortar, The Slates on the Roof.* The black-board was in
constant use. Many of those who were present must recall the
look of inspiration with which his burning words were accom
panied, as he went through the various transformations of the
coal, till it reached the diamond, and the poetry he threw into
his theme as, with kindling eyes, he lifted a lump of coal off the
table, and held it up to his breathless listeners.

   " A diamond, nothing less !--We may consider the coal upon the fire
as a middle term of a series, of which the first is live wood, and the last

diamond ; and indulge safely in the fancy, that every diamond in the
world has probably, at some remote epoch, formed part of a growing

plant. A strange transformation, which will look to us more strange,

more poetical, the more steadily we look at it. The coal on the fire,

the table at which I stand, what are they made of? Gas and sunbeams,

with a small percentage of ash, or earthy salts, which need hardly be

taken into account.

    " Gas and sunbeams ! Strange, but true. The life of the growing
plant -- and what that life is who can tell ?-- laid hold of the gases in the

    * These lectures, published in 1872 as       " Town  Geology,"  were dedicated  to the
members of the class he loved so well.

35 2 Charles Kingsley.

air and in the soil, of the carbonic acid, the atmospheric air, the water,
for that too is gas. It drank them in through its rootlets ; it breathed

them in through its leaf-pores, that it might distil them into sap, and bud,

and leaf, and wood. But it had to take in another element, without

which the distillation and the shaping could never have taken place.
It had to drink in the sunbeams, and absorbed them, buried them in
itself-- no longer as light and heat, but as invisible chemical force, locked

up for   ages in  that woody fibre.        us long ago, in a beautiful      song, how
          it is.
   " So           Lord Lytton has told

                  ' The wind and the beam loved the rose. '

But Nature's poetry is more beautiful than man's. The wind and the
beam love the rose --or rather the rose takes the wind and the beam,

and builds up out of them, by her own inner life, her exquisite texture,

hue, and fragrance.

   " What next ? The rose dies ; the timber tree dies --decays down into

vegetable fibre, is buried, and turned to coal : but the plant cannot

altogether undo its own work. Even in death and decay it cannot set

free the sunbeams imprisoned in its tissue. The sun-force must stay,

shut up age after age, invisible, but strong ; working at its own prison-

cells, transmuting them, or making them capable of being transmuted

by man, into the manifold products of coal, coke, petroleum, mineral

pitch, gases, coal-tar, benzole, delicate aniline dyes, and what not, till

its day of deliverance comes. Man digs throws on the fire, a black,

dead-seeming lump. A corner, an atom of warms till reaches the
                                           it,
                                              it
                                                 is it,

                                                          it
                                                                        is

                                                                       it
igniting point the temperature at which       able to combine with
it
          is, itoxygen. And then, like a dormant live thing, awaking after ages to the

                       ;sense of its own powers, its own needs, the whole lumpseized, atom

after atom, with an infectious hunger for that oxygen which losta;          it
                                is
centuries since in the bottom of the earth. It drinks the oxygen in at
                                        a
every pore and burns. And so the spell of ages broken. The sun-
                                           a
                                                    a
                                                                        is
force bursts its prison-cells, and blazes with the free atmosphere as

light and heat once more, returning in moment into the same forms in

which entered the growing leaf thousand centuries since. Strange
   all yet true. But of nature, as of the heart of man, the old saying

stands --that truth stranger than fiction."

   Never had man more appreciative            audience --                   intelligent,
enthusiastic, affectionate. " They spring to                                would say,
                                              touch," he

"at every point," and never did he receive such warm grasp of the
                                              a

hand as from men of all ranks in the beloved old city. The

                    Distribution of Thrift.                               353

Chester residence was one of the dearest episodes of his life, and
when he was transferred to Westminster he could not speak of
it without tears in his eyes.

   The following year the expeditions took place, but his lectures
were less frequent. The society, he felt, was well established
on a basis of its own ; and with him, over-work of brain had
brought on a constant lassitude and numbness of the left side,
which led him to apprehend coming paralysis, and forced him
to confine his work more exclusively to preaching and the never-

ceasing correspondence.

   On the distribution of plants, especially of Thrift, which had
long occupied his mind, he writes to Sir Charles Bunbury :

     " My dear Sir Charles,                               Chester, 1871.

           " I trust I am not troubling you too much by asking about the

genus Armeria.   (Thrift.)  The distribution (vertical) of Armeria  maritima
is leading me   into some    curious questions. Towards solving
                                                                     them I

should be glad to know of books which will help me.
   " 1. How many species of Armeria (as distinct from Statice) there are

known ? 2. What is their centre, and general geography? 3. Is Armeria

more likely to be a glacial form, an Atlantic form, or one belonging to

an old Pleiocene temperate flora ?
     I I" want information on these points ere  can decide -- whether

Armeria maritima retreated to mountain tops during a period of

subsidence, and reappeared on the sea shores below after the elevation,

by sea-transport, or whether it clothed the whole of the rocky lands as a

cliff plant, beginning at the mountain tops when they first appeared ;

and was expunged from the valleys below the 2400 ft. line by the rasping

action of the ice. In this case, its reappearance at the sea-level must be

due equally to sea-transport. The case is very curious, and Cochlearia

officinalis is as curious, and seemingly analogous. Cochlearia    I
                                                                          iIs,
presume,       northern form altogether. Any information on that point
     I
                  a
                           I
would be very helpful.        ought not to trouble you thus but have no
                                                          I
works  on  foreign   European botany to consult.               ;shall principally
       am  going,   in September, to Deeside (Scotland).
   "

work at the connection between glacial action and the flora, as hope
                                                                    I

thereby to elucidate four puzzles in my Bagshot gravel flora hereabouts."

     vol. 11.                                                       A  A

354 Charles Kingsley.

                      TO J. JEBB, ESQ., CHESTER.
                                                            Eversley Rectory, Feb. 13, 1872.
"I send you back your 'extract'; not in contempt, but with a
Ithousand thanks, and thinking you may want it.
                                                                                    know something

about this matter, because letters of Hooker's to his wife were sent on to
me. But I really had quite forgotten, for the moment, the fact of there
                        (for so I consider the Alp flora) flora
being   no pre-glacial                                                              on    the
Atlas.    That is the   side on which we should look at it.                               will
                                                                                     I

write to Hooker about                                           cannot get up a talk on
it                                                 and seeit

         I                                                 if
                        I
                                                             I
                                              it,
when    come to Chester. Now, 'gratitude being a lively sense

of favours to come,'                       shall show my gratitude by asking a favour of

you. Will you make search and inquiry, whether the common Thrift

(Statice armeria, or what they call                         now), grows about the lead

mines in our part of Wales                         It does so, with Arenaria verna, in two
        is
                  it,
                           it
                                  is

                           ' it, ?I
places in Yorkshire. Mr. Baker, of the Royal Herbarium, Kew, has

been writing to me about and agrees with me that the distribution of

Armeria very important.                            send you his letter, which please return

after studying   for                       from the hand of master.' You should
                                                                a

look also for Thlaspi alpestre about the Arenaria verna district on

Halkin                                             whether  chloride of sodium      runs  from

   "P.S. --You might ascertain

lead mines. Why not "
        :
                                        ?
Mr. Baker has kindly allowed the letter referred to to be

quoted                  TO REV. C. KINGSLEY.

" Dear Sir,--                                                   Richmond, Feb. 10, 1872.

        " My wife asks me to answer your note on Thrift distribution.

We used to think, in Yorkshire, that its profuse growth in Wensleydale,

which has been known to botanists for at least generation, was case
        ;                                                                           a
                 it
                     is

                                                   it.
                                                         it
                                                                                 a
parallel with the growth of the marine Spergularia amongst the Cheshire
salt-mines, and inland salt-springs of the mountains of Auvergne and
Dauphine" and of Scirpus maritimus, Erodium maritimum, and Rumex

maritimus, at the foot of the Malverns, and that the plant had stayed

there, since the sea retreated, because needed chloride of sodium, and

had got, from the overflow of the mine's muddied stream, either that or
                                                   There are two other plants --not
something that made up for

maritime, that, in the North of England, follow the lead mines from
stream-side to mountain-top --Thlaspi alpestre and Arenaria verna--

the latter most plentiful. With the Spergularia there seems no doubt

about the salt,  admitted universally.

              Relics of a Pre- Glacial Flora.                                       355

   " But the Thrift distribution is a very complicated question, as it in

volves the relationship of our English Armeria maritima to the
A. elongata of the sandy inland plains of North Germany, and the
A. Alpina, supposed to be restricted to the mountain summits of central

Europe, and there again to Arctic and Antarctic neighbouring species, so

called. It seems likely (see what is said under Armeria in the last edition
of ' English Botany ' ) that careful study among the Scotch mountains

would completely connect our maritima with alpina, and that from

Thrifts a very good argument might be made out in favour of Dar

win"iaBnutvieitwss.eems to me that what we most want, to throw light on the

matter, is a very simple experiment, which very likely, at your instigation,

some of the members of the Hampshire Club would undertake -- to

transfer a dozen sea-side plants, in duplicate, from the shore to an

inland garden, including Thrift and the others that grow also among the

mountains, and water one set with salt-water, and the other with fresh,

and report the result at the end of a couple of years. It is said that

Salsola is killed without the salt ; but we know that, at any rate, Thrift,

sea-kale and cabbage, make themselves quite at home in common

garden soil.                                   " Yours very truly,

                                                   "J. S. BAKER." «

              TO SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                   CHESTER, JuneV], 1871.

  II" ought to have answered your former letter; but am 'toiling terribly.'

It is a real comfort to me to hear that you approve of the book ("At Last")

Ias a whole. Your news on Drosera are very interesting to me.

wrote to Hooker about       and his guess was that had, like so many
                            it,

                                                   :

                                          if I
                                                  aI

                                                                         it
water plants, been carried by birds. But think that you make out
                                                                                 a
                                                                                          a
good case, and will amend my statement the book ever gets into fresh

edition.  I   quite agree with you that we have no right to suppose that

all Arctic species originated in those regions.    am rather inclined to

regard them, and the peculiar plants of our mountain tops, as relics of
a more temperate pre-glacial flora indeed, of miocene one. They

may have become varied since then by the severe climate. But as                     a

"  * In reference to this letter, Mr.  Baker   says, in writing to the Editor in 1876:
   We are no nearer the bottom of the  matter  now than we were in 1872. Mr. Jodrell,

who has been so liberal to University College, at present spending £1000 in buildingis

a laboratory in Kew Gardens, in order that full facility for the working out of such

like matter may be given."

                                                                             AA  2

356 Charles Kingsley.

single instance, I cannot consider Saxifraga as an Arctic or even Alpine
form, while I find S. granulata and tridactylitas as Lowland plants,

and such rich forms as S. umbrosa and Geum not only down to the

sea-level, as well as up to the mountain-top in Kerry, but reappearing in
Lusitania, as if they were members of the ' Atlantic Flora ' !
    I" As for man having started as an Esquimaux,
                                                                    believe that as little

as you can.
    " As to la petite culture. I distinguish it from peasant proprietor
ship. The latter I consider a very great evil, barbarizing the peasantry.
IBut accept
         J.                in the West Indies, as established and as the only
                                                                 it I
               S.                                                                   ;
                    it,
possible form of la petite culture, which latter consider an unmixed

good, as eliciting the maximum from the soil, and demanding skilled

labour.              Mill does not, think, desire                   heartily for these ends.
                                        it I I
He knows nothing, as far as can find, of agriculture. But he desires,

not so much la petite culture, as peasant proprietors with any kind of
                                                                                       population -- his
tillage, good        or bad,  --beacnaduseexte(rhmeinhaoteldss)   keeps down
monomania            No. 1.                                      squires, who          propagate the
military class -- monomania No. 2.                                                        '
    " as too often do, hold views which will please no one, becauseI I,
         I                                                                                  I

                              '

                                 is
try to see both sides; and which, therefore, keep as much as possible
                                                                 I

out   of sight.      that  the landlord         is     necessary element, first in civiliza
         believe                                    a
   "

tion, because he ensures the presence and influence of an educated

man, and still more of educated women, on each estate (for want of this
the French peasant sailing into barbarism and superstition) and next,
                                                                                       ;

in agriculture, because by him alone can large and central works be
carried out (for want of this, drainage, &c, are at their lowest point in

Fra"ncBeu)t. hold that there should be large farms and small farms and
    a                                                                                  if
the proportion of one to the other should be left very much to thea
                                                                                                a is ;
demands of the markets, and the experience of which cultureI                                          most

                       a
profitable on given estate. Here the landlord could exercise dis

cretion, and say to the large farmer, You shall not absorb more land
                                                I
into great farm there are portions which would do better cultivated'

on more special system;' or to the small farmers, 'You shall not
                          ;
subdivide my land into 10 to 40 acre holdings, because you will be com:
pelled, from the lightness of the soil, merely to do (and do badly) with
                                    is                                                                  I it
what the large farmer                   doing well, and with less outlay per acre.'

cou"ldBugtothinisto  details on this, but will not trouble you now.                       tenant
         I           do hold. That each tenant should be an hereditary

as much as possible glebce adscriptus. His landlord should have no

power of ejection as long as the farm was properly cultivated, and as

            Feudal Ideal and the Universities.                           357

long as a fair rent --to be fixed by a court of arbitrators --was duly paid

 him and    his  son after   him.
                     could,  restore
" I would,   if
Iby                                   the  feudal  system, the  highest  form of
civilization -- in ideal, not in practice, -- which Europe has seen yet. I

would bind the tenant to the landlord, the landlord to the lord-lieutenant

(to be chosen very differently from now), and him and all to the Crown,
by more than the old ' Trinoda Necessitas ' of military service, roads

and bridges. I would add to them the duty of public education, of

agricultural drainage on a large scale, and of sanitary reform or sanitary
            In a word, I would make every man, as in the
police

Middle Age, responsible to some superior who represented to him the

Crown.

  I" would prevent any man taking legal possession of an estate, large

or small, unless he had previously passed an examination showing that

Ihe knew the practical work of a landlord ; and would compel the

universities -- and public schools if they monopolize the education of the
landed proprietors --to teach them their duties as part of the regular

curriculum. I have no words for the conduct of our universities, in

passing through their course yearly the elite of the English land-owners

without teaching them a single fact--or warning them of a single duty --

which belongs to their station. This is the sin of the universities, which
Iwill
  I I"
be avenged       some  day. But am         growing tedious.     have seen two
  have not       seen  Hooker's letter     from Morocco.

from him about the Atlas, in which he states the (to him as to most)
unexpected fact that he found no Alpine flora on its summits. He

attributes this to the alternately dry and freezing climate."

                                                   Chester, July 22, 1871.

" Many thanks for your kind comments. I quite agree with you that

my semi-feudal ideal has become impossible. But still, it is an ideal ;
and one which will probably ' realize ' itself in some more highly civilized

country hereafter. But you have shown only too well the reasons why

it is impossible in England or France now.                      Are we not

   "And this brings in another and a painful thought.

tending to that anarchy of irreverence which France is now paying for

in tears and blood? The anarchy which is brought on by being

governed by the Press, i.e., by men who, having often failed in regular

labour of any kind, establish themselves as anonymous critics of all who

labour, under an irresponsibility and an immunity which no despot ever

enjoyed ? Professing to speak the mind of the people, they live by
Ipandering to its no-mind, i.e., its merest fancies and prejudices.
                                                                         see a

358 Charles Kingsley.

possibility of all government becoming as impossible in England as it

has   been for two generations at  least   in France.
      What you say about fixity           tenure
   "                                of            is,I

                                                      it,
                                                          is

                                                           I

                                                                                  it
                                                       believe, more true than

what said and thank you for the correction. But to make safe
it

   II
                        ;
                  I
to leave so much to the average landlord, we must have an educa

tion of landlords by the universities as stringent as have demanded.

The   more responsibility, the more training   for             the first                    rule.
   "   agree with you only too much as to     the                                           government.
                                                       measures of

But as an old supporter of the Ballot (with the cynical reservation that
will do practically, i.e. morally, neither good nor harm) shall be glad
                                                                                     I

to see the Ballot bill carried, and an old grievance (even                           if     fancied one)

                                                                                         a

removed."

                            TO MISS CRAWFORD.

                                                       EversLey, Dec. 21, 187I.

" have, as                  practical agriculturist, interested myself much for
I

                          a

                    I

                                                                                  a

                                                I
twenty-five years in the small farm question, and think your friend

may depend on what tell him.                           man and his family can
   " The least extent of English soil on which

live comfortably, i.e., as well as an average day-labourer,                          is     four acres.
                                                                                         a
To do so he must have capital to start with of at least £\o per acre,
equal to £,a,o. Besides, he must have house, barn, manure-reservoir,

&c, ready made. He must be powerful man, as he must use hand-
                                   a
                                                a

                                                   it
                                                           is

                                                                  a
labour (not plough) almost entirely. He must also be practical

agriculturist and stock-raiser. Even then                            question whether he

will succeed he grows merely food. He ought to grow flax, or hemp,;is
or both and know how to prepare the former, at least, for the market
--as in Belgium and this an art in itself.if

   "Your friend must remember that the French and German;

peasants, who own or rent little farms, have long hereditary skill in
agriculture, which the English artizan has not. He must remember also

that the crops which they raise per acre are miserably small compared

to those on large English farm.              speak from the sight of my
           ;                               II
                a
                                                 a
                                                                        a
                                                                                                                     ;
own eyes and that an immediate result of breaking up the present

farms into little allotments would be to diminish the food-producing

pow"eFrsorofa this realm at least one half.  could never fat                         single bullock
              single fact, the small farmer

and English beef would disappear from the market, its place being taken
(as in France and Germany) by veal -- the calves being killed to save the
expense of rearing.
" He must also remember --what                assure him -- that the foreign

peasant in the north lives far worse than good English labourer. Meat

                               Labourers and Land.                      359

he never tastes, or white bread. Black rye bread and pottage is his

Istaple food, and his wife, from early field work, becomes a haggard old

woman at twenty-five. God forbid that should ever see in England

such wives and mothers as are common on the Continent. Moreover,

in France his land is mortgaged, usually heavily, to the attorney in the

next town.

   " He must remember also that arguments drawn from the peasantry

of warmer climates, e.g., the S.E. of France, well known to Mr. J. S.
Mill, will not hold good here, or in North France. In the S.E. a man

grows maize as well as wheat, and has his mulberries for silk, his vines,

his almonds, his olives, all bringing him in a good profit over and above

his food-producing land. Flax and hemp would be the only non-eatable

crops here ; and they (as has been shown by repeated failures of ex

               not in sufficient demand to  command a     high profit.
               God that your friend were    right. But    since took
Iper"imWeonut)ldarteo                                                   up
Iscientific agriculture twenty-five years ago, in order to see if (as hoped)
Isome such scheme would not cure many social ills, have gradually, but

steadily, given up the hope. The only chance of deliverance from the

Ipresent system which see, and which may God send, is this : That

science should discover some valuable raw article of manufacture, which

can be grown freely on English soil, and which will require careful hand
labour-- like the vine, mulberry, tea, coffee, cocoa, &c. Then indeed
ifwould the small farmer have a chance,
                                            he had saved money to start

with in the mean time.
" As it were
I                                           should certainly try this experiment.
                       is,
                    I
                                         a
                                       I
                               land-owner

should let some four to five acre lots to the very ablest labourers at the

usual low farmer's rent, on the condition that they used spade and fork,
not plough, and give them all fair play, with the right of buying the land

gradually from me they saved money, which fear they would not do.
But town artizan came to ask me for similar bit of land, would
if                                         if                II
                                                                    I
     a                                                 a

                  if                                 if
                                                       I
say, Come in, my good fellow, and eat and drink with me, and go your
way back to your own trade. For you settled down on this bit of

land, you would be either in the workhouse or the grave in twelve

months and the land wilderness. And he were sensible man
;                                                         a

     I                          Ifwas right.
                             a
                     I
would make him see that                       your friend wants further

information,   shall be glad to give it. Let your friend remember
also -- would to Heaven that he would see the force of what
                                                                        say
-- that the peasant on the Continent, nowhere more than in France,

and must be, the slave of the Government and of the Clergy;
is,
                           is  no strong land-owning class to stand between
because there

the poor man and the Government officials, who combine to oppress

him. A French peasant grows up in barbarism and superstition. No

360 Charles Kingsley.

gentleman -- and worse, no lady --speaks to him or his from the cradle

to the grave ; and his civilization is impossible. The only civilized
persons he sees are the government-magistrates, &c., who trample on
him ; and the priest, who fleeces him, and curses him if he will not be
fleeced. As for helping him, the priest is too poor for that, and the
magistrate won't."

   It so happened that the first week of his residence in Chester,

being always in May, was the race week, which for the time being
turned the streets of the venerable old city into a sort of Pande
monium. Trade, except in the public-houses, was stagnant, and
the temptations of the young men in the middle and lower
classes from betting and bad company, with the usual ending of
a suicide, and the ruin of many, weighed heavily on his heart, as
on that of the Dean and many of the residents. Most of the
respectable tradesmen deplored the effect of the race-week, not
only on the higher ground of morality, but because the direct
losses to trade and to the working classes which resulted from

it were so serious. A series of short papers on " Chester Races

and their Attendant Evils " were started, and by the wish of
 Dean Howson, Mr. Kingsley took the subject of Betting, and
addressed his letter " To the Young Men of Chester." It is

 characteristic, and therefore given entire :

      "BETTING.-- A LETTER TO THE YOUNG MEN OF CHESTER.

      " MY DEAR YOUNG MEN,
                 " The human race may, for practical purposes, be divided

into     three parts :                                           ;;
   "     1. Honest men : who mean to do right ; and do
   "     2. Knaves who mean to do wrong and do                          ;
   "
             Fools who mean to do whichever of the two               I it.
         3.                           ;                                        is it.

      "                       :                         into --                       the pleasanter.
      "                            :                                                 dare not unless
                                                        wrong
         And these last may           be divided again           but
         Black fools who              would rather do
                     :;                                                                    ;
is it    the fashion.                 who would rather do right                                ;
    is" White fools                                              but dare not unless              in it

      the fashion.                                               and the knaves will

      " Now the honest men do not need my advice

not take  neither, fear, will the black fools. They will agree
          it

             ;

                      I

their secret hearts, most of them, that every word say true. But
                                                                                       is

                      Black and White Fools.                                            361

they do not wish it to be true ; and therefore they will tell every one

that it is not true, and try to wriggle out from under it by far-fetched

excuses, and go back next races, ' like the dog to his vomit, and the

sow to her wallowing in the mire,' and bet and gamble boldly, because
Ithen that will be the fashion. But of the white fools
                                                                                        have hope.

For they are not half bad fellows : some of them, indeed, are very

near being very good fellows, and would like so much to do anything
which is right and proper --only it takes so much trouble ; and perhaps

                look  rather odd now and
                 let  me ask them -- and
Iit                                       then.
    m" iNghotw                            really                  have so much liking for them,
Ithat I fear at times must be one of them myself --in all friendliness and
courtesy -- Why do you bet and gamble at the races ? Consider well

what your answer will be. Certainly it will not be that you do so to

avoid trouble, which you so much dislike in general. For you must

confess at once that it is more trouble to bet, more anxiety, and often

more grief and sorrow, than it is not to bet, but to leave the matter

Ialone. And while you are preparing your reasons, will give you two

at  "leaTshteoffimrsitner,eafosronlea(wvihnigch thseeemmasttetro  alone.
                                                                   me the
                                                                           strongest reason which
can be given against any matter whatsoever,) is                            this -- that betting, and
Igambling of every kind, is in itself wrong and immoral.
                                                                                        do not say

that every man who bets is an immoral man. Far from it : many really

honest men bet ; but that is because they have not considered what they

are doing. Betting is wrong : because it is wrong to take your neighbour's

money without giving him anything in return. Earn from him what

you will, and as much as you can. All labour, even the lowest drudgery,

is honourable ; but betting is not labouring nor earning : it is getting

money without earning         and more,it,                        getting money, or trying to

                                    ;

                                       it :

                                                 :

                                                  it
                                                          is
get out of your neighbour's ignorance.: it,

  " If you and he bet on any event, you think that your horse will

win he thinks that his will in plain English, you think that you know

more about the matter than he you try to take advantage of his igno
rance, and so to conjure money out of his pocket into yours -- very
                                                                                        A

noble and friendly attitude in which to stand to your neighbour, truly.

That  is        the plain English of      and look at upwards, downwards,
                                                                           is it
sideways, inside out, you will never make anything out of betting,              ;
save this -- that                                                                    a
                      : it    taking advantage of your neighbour's supposed
                          is
ignorance.                                all fair, he trying to do as much
   " But says some one, That
                              '
                                                                  very noble and friendly attitude
                                             is
                                              is
                                                        a
by me.' Just so and that again
                                                                                        state of mutual
for two men who have no spite against each other

distrust and unmercifulness, looking each selfishly to his own gain,

362 Charles Kingsley.

Iregardless of the interest of the other.   say, regardless. You know

whatever you lose, he will expect you to pay, however much it may

inconvenience you : while if he loses you expect him to pay, however

much it may inconvenience him. Thus betting is founded on selfish

                                            ; is,
                                                is

                                                  if

                                                           a

                                                                   (I

                                                                               is
ness ; and the consequence                  that men who live by betting are, and

cannot help being, the most selfish of men, and should think) among

the most unhappy and pitiable for           man who given up to selfish

ness, distrust, and cunning, who tempted every hour to treachery and

falsehood, without the possibility of one noble or purifying feeling

throughout his whole day's work, or the consciousness that he has doneIa
the slightest good to human being -- not even as much good as an old
woman at stall has by selling penny-worth of apples -- that man
a                        if is              I                                                                          ?
not pitiable object, do not know what is.                                                                                a ? is
    I                          a                             if
            a" But some will say, It not the money
                                                                               ?
                      '                     care for, but the amuse

ment.' Excuse me but                        so, why do you bet for money                That
                  :

question have asked again and again, and have never got an answer.

Why do you bet for money, and not counters, or pins, or pebbles

Why, but because you want the money, to buy with money's worthit
   " Of course, know well enough that plenty of bets pass on every
               I
race, which are practically quite harmless. A dozen of kid gloves to
lady -- when you know that she will expect you to pay her, while you are
bound not to ask her to pay you -- he would be very strait-laced person
                                            ;
                                                           a

                                                                          a
                                                                                     a
who could see any great harm in that any more than in rubber of

sixpenny whist. And yet would be better for many young man, for
some of the finest fellows of all, men of eager temper, high spirit, deli
        ;

               if

                                        it
cate honour, they would make up their mind never to bet, even                                                          a

shilling never to play cards, except for love. For gambling, like drink

ing, grows upon some men, and upon the very finest natures too. And

remember, that in betting and gambling, the more honourable man you

are, the worse chance you have gambling almost the only thing the
I
                                   is

                                                          :
                                                                          :

                                                   is is ;
                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                   in
world, in which the bad man the stronger by very virtue of his bad
ness, the good man the weaker by very virtue of his goodness. The man

who will not cheat no match for the man who will. The honourable

man who will pay his debts, no match for the dishonourable man who

will not. No match indeed not even in that last sad catastrophe, which

have seen too often when the honourable man, throwing good money

after bad to recover his losses, grows desperate, tries his hand just once
at foul play, and sells his soul -- for nothing. For when he borrows the

knave's tools, he cannot use them he ashamed of himself, hesitating,
        ;

           is
                          a

                             I
                                                          ;
                                                                     is

                                                                                                                                       :

                                                                                                                it

                                                                                                is if
clumsy  found out -- as have known such found out and then --

he does not put pistol to his own head and blow his brains out,

not because he does not long, poor wretch, to do so.

                                White Fools.                                                         363

  " I hold, then, that betting is itself more or less wrong and im
moral. But I hold, too, that betting, in three cases out of four, is
Ialtogether foolish ; so foolish that cannot understand why the very

young men who are fondest of                should be the very men who are
                        a
proudest of being considered shrewd, knowing, men of the world, andis
                                a
what not.
                                   ? is
   " They stake their money on this horse and on that. Now judgingis
                                                a
of horse's capabilities                                it,an art, and very delicate and difficult art,
a                                                               is
                  a                                                 a
depending first on natural talent, and next on experience, such as not

one man in thousand has. But how many betting young men know

anything about          horse, save that he has four legs                         ?         How many of
                                                                                     ?

                                                                                          ?
them know at sight whether horse sound or not Whether he can

stay or not Whether he going in good form or not Whether he
a is
doing his best or not Probably five out of six of them could not
           '

            a
                     ?
sit on race-horse without falling off; and then such youth pretends
                                                                               a
                                                                                       a
to himself that he       judge of the capabilities of noble brute, who                               is

much better judge of the young gentleman's capabilities, and would

pro"ve  himself so within five   minutes after                             he had got into   the saddle.
        But they know what      the horse has                              done already.'    Yes but not
                                                                                                  ;

what the horse might have done. They do not know -- no one can,
        not in the secrets of the turf -- what the horse's engagements
who     ; is

                ;
really are whether he has not been kept back in view of those engage

ments whether he will not be kept back again whether he has not                ;

been used to make play for another horse and --in one word -- whether
                                                                           :;
' ishe meant to win.                                                           They have heard sporting

   " But they have special information

men on whom they can rely, report to them this and the other wonder

ful secret.' Of all the various follies into which vanity, and the wish to
seem knowing, and to keep sporting company lead young men -- and
mere boys often -- this think               about the most absurd. A young lad
                        I

                            a
                                        is
hangs about the bar of sporting public-house, spending his money in

drink, in hopes of over-hearing what        the initiated Mr. This                                may say to
the initiated Mr. That --and goes off       with his hearsay, silly                               fellow, for

getting that Mr. This probably said out loud to Mr. That order
                         ;                                                                           in
                                                                                                               in
                                  if

                                             it
                                                 is it
that he might overhear that they have any special information, they

will keep to themselves, because                                           their stock-in-trade whereby they
is
live, and they are not going to be foolish enough to give away to him.it

Mr. This and That may not be dishonest men but they hold that
                                                                               ;
betting, as in love and war, all                                                         a

                                                                                              it
                                            fair they want to make their books,
                        ;

                                                  is is

                                                                        ;
not to make his and though they very likely tell him great deal which

to their own advantage, they are neither simple enough, nor generous

enough, to tell him much that               to his advantage or to prevent him
                                                                                  ;

364 Charles Kings ley.

from making the usual greenhorn's book by which he stands sure to lose

five pounds, and likely to lose fifty.
   " ' Ah, but the young gentleman has sent his money on commission

to a prophet in the newspaper, in whom he has the highest confidence ;

he has prophesied the winner two or three times at least ; and a friend

of his sent him money to lay on, and got back ever so much ; and he

has a wonderful Greek name, Lynceus, or Polyphemus, or Typhlops, or

something, and so he must know.' Ah ! fool, fool. You know how

often the great Polyphemus prophesied the winner, but you do not know

how often he did not. Hits count of course ; but misses are hushed
up. And as for your friend getting money back, if Polyphemus let no

one win, his trade would stop. The question not whether one foolish
                                                              ;
lad won by him, but whether five-and-twenty foolish lads did not lose
                                                                       a
by him. He has his book to make, as well as you, and he wants your         is,

money to pay his own debts with he loses. He has his bread to earn,
                                                       it if
and he wants your money to earn with and as for sending him money,

you may as well throw                     sovereign down                      coal-pit and expect   ; a a it  to
                                   a

                                      Ia
come up again with ton of coals on its back. If any young man will

not believe me, because am parson, let him read, in the last chapter
                                          a

or two of Sponge's Sporting Tour,' what was thought of the Enoch
            '
Wriggles and Infallible Joes, by better sportsman and wiser man, than
               a                          a                                             ?a
                           '                                                                     ;
any"        Chester betting young gentleman                   is   likely to be.                  He knows    :a
              Ah, but the young gentleman has                     a    private friend.

boy in Mr. So and So, or Lord the Other's stables, and he has put him
up to thing or two. He with the horse day and night feeds him
                                         a
knows the jockey who will ride him.' Does he then What nobleis

    and trustworthy source of information           !         !       One on the strength of which

a it  would be really worth               lad's while to disobey his father, make his

    mother miserable, and then rob his master's till, so sure must he be to

    realise grand haul of money                        A needy little stable-boy, even com
            in
    fortable big groom, who either tells you what he does not know, and so
              if a
    lies, or tells you what he does know, and so probably traitor and

    who any case, for the sake of boasting and showing off his own im
    portance, or of getting half a crown and glass of brandy and water,
                                                                      a                 a
                                                                          is

                                                                           I
    Ifwill tell you anything which comes uppermost.                             had almost said he            is

      fool he does not.                   you are fool enough to buy his facts, his

    cheapest and easiest plan must be to invent sham facts, and sell them

    you, while he keeps the real facts for his own use. For he too has his

    little book to make up and like every one who bets, must take care of
            I
                                                             ;

                                                                                          I
    himself first, with his hand against every man, and every man's hand

    aga"inst   him.           say  much  more, and            uglier  things    still.  But to what
              could

                    Betting and Gambling.                                                                        365

Ihave said, must stand. This used to be the private history of small
Ibettings at races thirty years ago ; and from all hear, things have not
Igrown better, but worse, since that time. But even then, before took
IHoly Orders, before even thought seriously at all, things were so bad
Ithat found myself forced to turn my back on race-courses, not because
I did not love to see the horses run --in that old English pleasure, taken
I Isimply and alone,
                    can fully sympathise --but because                found that

they tempted me to betting, and that betting tempted me to company,

and to passions, unworthy not merely of a scholar and a gentleman, but

of an honest and rational bargeman or collier. And I have seen what

comes too often of keeping that company, of indulging those passions.

I have known men possessed of many virtues, and surrounded with

every blessing which God could give, bring bitter shame and ruin, not

only on themselves, but on those they loved, because they were too

weak to shake off the one passion of betting and gambling. And I have

known men mixed up in the wicked ways of the world, and too often

yielding to them, and falling into much wrong doing, who have some

how steered through at last, and escaped ruin, and settled down into a

respectable and useful old age, simply because they had strength enough
Ito say --' Whatever else  may or may not do, bet and gamble I will
not.' And I very seriously advise my good friends the White Fools to

make the same resolution,  and to keep
   "February 1st, 1871."
                                   " Your very good friend,
                                                                " C.
is                                                                    Kingsley.

          I
                      it.
                             is is
                           a it
                                                                                                 :
                                                                            it.
                                                                                            it,
                                                                                               it it
                                                                                                     is a
                                                                                                             it
   The local papers, of course, took up the subject, and he again

replied.
   The following letter to his eldest son, when quite boy at a

public school, on his telling his father he had put into a lottery
without thinking any harm, will come in appropriately here,
though written many years before

" My dearest Boy,
           " There
                    matter which gave me much uneasiness when you

mentioned  You said you had put into some lottery for the Derby

and had hedged to make safe.

   " Now all this bad, bad, nothing but bad. Of all habits gambling

the one hate most and have avoided most. Of all habits grows

most on eager minds. Success and loss alike make grow. Of all

habits, however much civilised men may give way to                    one of the

3 66 Charles Kingsley.

most intrinsically savage. Historically it has been the peace excitement
of the lowest brutes in human form for ages past. Morally it is un-

chivalrous and unchristian.

   " 1. It gains money by the lowest and most unjust means, for it takes

money out of your neighbour's pocket without giving him anything in

return.

   " 2. It tempts you to use what you fancy your superior knowledge of
a horse's merits -- or anything else --to your neighbour's harm.

  If" you know better than your neighbour you are bound to give him

your advice. Instead, you conceal your knowledge to win from his

ignorance ; hence come all sorts of concealments, dodges, deceits -- I

say the Devil is the only father of it. I'm sure, moreover, that B. would

 seriously          to anything like a  lottery,   betting, or gambling.
hope you            have not won.       should     not be sorry for you
I Iobj"ect                                                                       to lose.
If I Ifyou have won should not congratulate you.
                                                          you wish to please

me, you will give back to its lawful owners the money you have won.

If Iyou are a loser in gross thereby, will gladly reimburse your losses

this time. As you had put in you could not in honour draw back till

after the event. Now you can give back your money, saying you under
stand that Mr. B. and your father disapprove of such things, and so gain

a v"erRyegcroellaetcmt oarlwalayinsfltuheantcet.he stock argument is worthless.  It is this :
I' My friend would win from me if he could, therefore have an equal

right to win from him.' Nonsense. The same argument would prove

that I have a right to maim or kill a man if only I give him leave to
maim or kill me if he can and will.
I I" have spoken my mind once and for all on a matter on which

have held the same views for more than twenty years, and trust in God
Iyou will not forget my words in after life.
                                                          have seen many a good

fellow ruined by finding himself one day short of money, and trying to
get a little by play* or betting -- and then the Lord have mercy on his

Isim"pMleinsdo,ul,  for simple it will not remain  long.  Betting is the way of the
                    am not the least angry with    you.

world. So are all the seven deadly sins under certain rules and pretty

names, but to the Devil they lead if indulged in, in spite of the wise

world and its ways.                                       " Your loving Pater."

   * So strong was his feeling about gambling, that he would never in his own house
allow a game of cards to be played for money. To rest his brain, he always played
with his children in the evening for an hour or two-- dominoes, backgammon, patience,
whist, or some other game of cards.

                  Pantheism and Positivism.                                          367

                  TO MISS

                  (On the Death of her Mother.)

                                                              Chester, May, 1871.

   " We were much shocked at the news, and all felt deeply for you.

  " And now, what shall I say ? I am not going to tell you impertinent
Icommonplaces as to how to bear sorrow. believe that the wisest plan is

sometimes not to try to bear it-- as long as one is not crippled for one's
every day duties --but to give way to sorrow utterly and freely. Perhaps

sorrow is sent that we may give way to and in drinking the cup to the
I

               '

              it, ? 'I
                   I

                                 if

                                                    ; ' it
                                                                              it,

                                                                                            ;
                                                                                    ?
                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                 '

                                                                                              ? if

                                                                             I
dregs, find some medicine in itself, which we should not find we
Ifbegan doctoring ourselves, or letting others doctor us.
                                                                             we say simply,
am wretched -- ought to be wretched then we shall perhaps hear a

voice, Who made thee wretched but God Then what can He mean

but thy good      And the heart answers impatiently, My good

don't want        want my love    perhaps the voice may answer, Then
thou shalt have both in time.' "

TO DR. RIGG, HEAD OF WESLEYAN TRAINING COLLEGE.

                                                              Chester, May 16, 1871.

" return your proofs of the Lecture on Pantheism.             aI                 think them
I
excellent and true but think you speak in too hard tone of the
    aGermans. Be sure that they will be needed to be revived -- all of them
which can live and should live -- we are to be delivered out of the
    I is          ;
Positivist Materialism of the day. could have wished, but                            it      too
              a'       aI                                                                is

                                is

                                  I if

                                                           a
late, that you had defined Pantheism, not only from Theism and Atheism

but from Positivism.                                                         is  really grow

   " It Positivism -- of loose maundering kind -- which

ing among young men. When Huxley proclaims himself disciple of
                                                                             a

Kant and Berkeley, they think in their                      hearts, then he  is    retrograde
dreamer -- almost as bad as that fool of                                        a

   " But warn you that your words will                        Christian, Kingsley.'

                                                            be of little use. The desire to

get rid of personal God based on grounds which the many do not

talk of, and which you do not touch. They say, boldly enough among

themselves, and sometimes to me as civilly as they can, 'We will

have nothing to do with God, as long as He                    one who sends the
                                                              is
                                                                       is a
many to Tartarus, the few to Olympus. We will have nothing to do

with future state, as long as        said to contain                         Tartarus, and
                                  it
                                       is
                                              is
that an endless and irremediable one. The Olympus beautiful, pos

sible, but unprovable. The Tartarus                           horrible to our moral sense,

and shall be exterminated from the human mind.'

368 Charles Kingsley.

   " That, my dear Dr. Rigg, and nothing else, is the matter. These
men no more wish to be bad men than the average of your congregation
or mine. But they will not submit to the doctrine that the majority of
the human race are doomed by the mere fact of their birth to endless
torments. You must face that problem if you wish to save Christian
dogma in the next few generations. All else is a ' paralogism,' and
runs off them like water off a duck's back."

  A regular member of his congregation this summer was Chief

Justice Bovill, who was living in a neighbouring parish, and
drove over on Sunday mornings to Eversley Church. His

devoutness made a great impression on Mr. Kingsley, who
was much affected by his death in 1873. He writes :

"     .   .  Poor dear Chief Justice Bovill is dead.  Happy man ! But
   .

what a loss ! How well I remember giving him the Holy Communion

at Eversley; and the face was so devout, though boiling over with

humour."

On his return from Chester the quiet parish of Eversley was

startled into new life by the formation of a camp in Bramshill

Park and on Hartford Bridge Flats, at the opening of the autumn

manoeuvres, at which  the Prince of Wales was not onty

present, but camped out with his regiment, the 10th Hussars.

The tumult of enthusiasm and pride of the little parish at such

an event and the remembrance of the Prince's royal presence and

gracious courtesy (which will never be erased from the annals of
Eversley), had scarcely subsided, when the country was electrified

by the news of H.R.H. being struck down with fever and at the

point of death, and rector and parishioners grieved and prayed

and wept together. But Mr. Kingsley's deep personal attachment,

independent of his loyal feelings, made it too painful to him to

stay so far away ; and he started off to Lynn, from whence he

could get hourly news, and could walk over daily to Sandring-

ham, sending telegrams on to Eversley, which were put up on

the church door and in the window of the village shop. When

all danger was over, and the heart of the whole nation rebounded

with joy and thankfulness in a way that will stand in history as

something unexampled, he preached at the Chapel Royal, St.

           Loyalty shown in Sanatory Reform.                                                                     369

James's, a sermon on Loyalty, which enabled him to press the
subject of Sanatory Reform in connection with what, but for

God's mercy, he felt might have been one of England's greatest
disasters. The public press, to quote the words of a leading

newspaper, acknowledged, in strong terms,

" The eloquent and practical use made by Canon Kingsley of the

r"otyhael  pulpit at  St.  James's, and (after mentioning his words as to whether
           Sovereign   is
                           to us the divinely appointed symbol of the unity of our

country,") we thank him for pointing to the humanity of the wonderful

exhibition of unity that has been manifested. What he said on this

           is,
                                                                 a

                                                                                                             it
point      we believe, very true. Seeking to express the feeling of the
many, Canon Kingsley said -- 'They would speak, not eloquently might

be, but earnestly of sympathy with mother and wife, of sympathy with

youth and health fighting untimely, with disease and death. They would

plead their common humanity, and not be ashamed to have yielded to

"the touch of nature which makes the whole world kin," and that would

be altogether to their honour. Honourably and gratefully had that

sympathy shown itself in these realms of late.                                 had proved that,
'

                         is

                                                 ;
                                                                                           '

                                                          It

                                                                                                                                                 :

                                                                                                                 in
spite of all our covetousness, all our luxury, all our frivolity, we were not

cynics yet, nor likely to be that, however encrusted and cankered with

the cares and riches of this world, and bringing also very little fruit to
perfection, the old British oak was sound at the root -- still human, still
humane." " But," says the writer, "our immediate purpose in referring to

this grand sermon to be found in its sequel. A more powerful and

tim"elyLeetxhoourrtathioenartsth,'ansaitdhethfoelloCwainnognc, oublde  not be  delivered      of                 one
                                                                       bowed    as the heart

man, to say that, so far as we have power, so help us God, no man,

woman, or child in Britain, be he prince or be he beggar, shall die hence
forth of preventible disease. Let us repent of and amend that scandalous
neglect of the well-known laws of health and cleanliness which destroys
thousands of lives yearly in this kingdom without need or reason, in de
fiance alike of science, of humanity, and of our Christian profession.
Two hundred thousand persons, am told, have died of preventible
fever since the Prince Consort's death few years ago. Is not that
           if                                                                  ?

               a                                                                        if

                          '                                                                           a

                                is

                                   I

                                                                  a
national sin to bow our hearts as the heart of one man Oh, his
Royal Highness foul and needless disease, by striking at once at the

very highest, shall bring home to us the often-told, seldom-heeded fact,

that this same disease striking perpetually at hundreds among the very

lowest, whom we leave to sicken and die in dens unfit for men -- unfit
for dogs -- this illness shall awaken all loyal citizens to demand and to

enforce, as duty to their Sovereign, their country, and their God,
        vol. II.
                                                                               B
                                                                                   B

                                                                                               a

370 Charles Kingsley,

sanitary reform in town and country, immediate, wholesale, imperative --

Iif it shall awaken the ministers of religion to preach that-- hardly ought

to doubt it --till there is not a fever alley or a malarious ditch left in

any British city ; then, indeed, this fair and precious life will not have
been imperilled in vain ; and generations yet unborn will bless the
memory of a prince who sickened as poor men sicken, and all but died
as poor men die; that his example and it may be hereafter his exertions,
might deliver the poor from dirt, disease, and death.'"

   On the 4th of December Lord Leigh laid the foundation-stone
of the working men's block of the Queen's Hospital at Birming
ham with masonic honours, and the following simple hymn,
which Mr. Kingsley had been requested to compose for the
occasion, was sung by a choir of 1,000 voices :

                        " Accept this Building, Gracious Lord,

                                    No temple though it be ;
                                 We raised it for our suffering kin,

                                    And so, Good Lord, for Thee.

                                     Accept our little gift, and give
                                    To all who here may dwell,

                                 The will and power to do their work,
                                    Or bear their sorrows well.

                                     From Thee all skill and science flow ;

                                 All pity, care, and love j
                             All calm and courage, faith and hope,

                                         Oh ! pour them from above.

                                 And part them Lord to each and all,
                                    As each and all shall need,

                                 To rise, like incense, each to Thee,
                                In noble thought and deed.

                                 And hasten, Lord, that perfect day,
                                         When pain and death shall cease ;

                                 And Thy just rule shall fill the earth
                                    With health, and light, and peace:

                                     When ever blue the sky shall gleam,
                                    And ever green the sod ;

                                 And man's rude work deface no more,
                                    The Paradise of God."

        The True Meaning of Natural History. 371

    In the autumn he was invited, through Colonel Strange,
then at Woolwich with the Royal Artillery, to deliver a lecture
at the R.A. Institution there. With some hesitation, but with
real pleasure, he accepted, and was the guest of Colonel Strange,
with whom he spent two deeply interesting days. He chose for
his subject " The Study of Natural History." To touch on

military matters he felt, he said, would be

   " An impertinence for a civilian, but believing that just as a clergyman,

being a man, plus a priest, is bound to be a man, and a good man, over
and above his priesthood ; so is the soldier bound to be a civilian, and
a highly-educated civilian, plus his soldierly qualities and acquire

Iments. It seemed to me, therefore, that might, without impertinence,

ask you to consider a branch of knowledge which is becoming yearly
more important in the eyes of all well-educated civilians, of which the

soldier should know something, to put him on a par with the general

intelligence of the nation --the history of nature, and geology, botany,

meteorology, what the Germans call Erd-kunde."

He wished to rescue the honourable title of natural history

from the mere theory of plants and animals, to which of late

years it had been too much restricted ; and lest his hearers should

think he was only going to recommend them to collect weeds
and butterflies, " rats and mice, and such small deer," he would

endeavour to restore the words to their original and           proper
meaning --the History of Nature ; that                           born,
                                        of all that
    it
                                                    a

                                                                              is,
                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                                    a
and grows, in time --in short, of all natural objects.

" As the marvellous interdependence of all natural objects and forces

unfolds itself yet more and more, so the once separate sciences, which
treated of different classes of natural objects, are forced to interpenetrate

(as      were)  and supplement    themselves by knowledge borrowed from
each    other.
                 Thus -- to give   single instance -- no man can now be

first-rate botanist unless he be also no mean meteorologist, no mean
geologist, and-- as Mr. Darwin has shown in his extraordinary discoveries

about the fertilization of plants by insects -- no mean entomologist like

wise."

    He  pressed  upon his  hearers the importance   of  the "  inductive
habit   of mind  " which,  working steadily and    by   rule   from the

                                                        B
                                                             B
                                                                  2

372 Charles Kingsley.

men, to whom the advantage of the knowledge of botany--for

instance, when leading an exploring party or engaged in bush

warfare --would be great, if only from knowing what plants are

poisonous, what are eatable, what would yield vegetable acids
as preventives of scurvy, what for medicine or styptics, what
timbers are available to resist wet or the attacks of insects, &c,
&c Again, how great the use of " geology and mineralogy and
meteorology, in finding limestone, building stone, road metal --
in finding water, of what sort and at what depth -- and in ascer
taining with a view to malaria, rainfalls, and all those questions
which so deeply affect the health of troops whose lives are igno-
rantly sacrificed too often in these days by being placed in
barracks built in spots purely pestilential." He reminded them
of one significant fact, that the greatest captain of the old world
was trained by the greatest philosopher of the old world, the
father of Natural History ; that Aristotle was the tutor of
Alexander of Macedon -- and though he may not have taught
him natural history, yet he called out in his pupil somewhat of
his own extraordinary powers of observation and arrangement,

and helped to make him even more than a great general --a

great politician, coloniser, discoverer ; and, in return, according
to Atheneus, Alexander helped him in his researches, giving him
800 talents towards perfecting his history of animals. The
lecture is valuable throughout, and was felt to be so by those
who had it reprinted for the Proceedings of the Royal Artillery
Institution ; but space forbids more than the closing sentences,
in which, after giving some instances of the pursuits of scientific
military men, and their results, he urges on the young officer :

   " Respect scientific men -- associate with them --learn from them.
Allow them chivalrously, you who have an acknowledged rank, their
unacknowledged rank. . . . They do not yet wear the Queen's
uniform ; they are not yet accepted servants of the State, as they will be
in some more perfectly organized and civilized land ; but they are sol
diers, nevertheless, and good soldiers and chivalrous, fighting their

nation's battle, often on even less pay than you, and with still less chance

of promotion, and less chance of fame, against most real and fatal enemies,
against ignorance of the laws of this planet, and all the miseries which
that ignorance begets. Honour them for their work. . . .

The Pupils of Aristotle and Alexander.            373

" But why ? What need for the soldier and the man of science to

fraternise just now ? This need : the two classes which will have an
increasing, it may be a preponderating, influence on the fate of the human
race for some time, will be the pupils of Aristotle and those of

Alexander--the men of science and the soldiers. . . . This is my

firm conviction. They will be left to rule ; because they alone have each
... Iin his own sphere learnt to obey.
                               I may be a dreamer : and

may consider, in my turn, as wilder dreamers than myself, certain per

sons who fancy that their only business in life is to make money, the

scientific man's only business to show them how to make money, and

the soldier's only business to guard their money for them. Be that as

it may, the finest type of civilized man which we are likely to see for

some generations to come, will be produced by a combination of the
I Itruly military with the truly scientific man.
                               say, may be a dreamer :

but you at least, as well as my scientific friends, will bear with me ; for

my dream is to your honour."*

   And so his key-note, whether at Sion College to the clergy,
at Chester to his middle-class pupils, or at Woolwich to military
men, was the same. " Science is on the march -- listen to her
divine words, for what is she but the Voice of God, Deus reve-
latus ? Mark her footsteps -- and if you cannot keep pace with
her, still follow her."

   Colonel Strange had long had a reverent affection for Mr.
Kingsley from his writings, but this lecture and the intimacy of
the days they spent together at Woolwich, and again when he
welcomed him to the Citadel of Quebec in 1874, increased
his feelings of love and loyalty, which will be seen in a letter,
the use of which he has kindly allowed for this book of memories,

where it must stand as one of the most valued contributions.

                   COLONEL STRANGE TO MRS. KINGSLEY.

                                                                      CITADEL, QUEBEC, March, 1876.

   " I thank you very much for your letter and the sermon upon him,

' who being dead yet speaketh,' having been a living epistle to be read
of all men. . . . My name is not worthy to be linked with his,

374 Charles Kingsley1.

Christianity possible, being one of them himself in spirit, perhaps the

noblest. He invented no new Gospel, but showed them the real courage,
the manliness of our Christ reflected somewhat unconsciously in himself.

Is it necessary to explain to you that for ages the majority of soldiers
had dimly tried to do their duty with the grim creed alone, that ' every

bullet has its billet,' and after  ? The circumstances that made

the Puritan soldiers died with them. The modern soldier had to choose

between what, rightly or wrongly, seemed to them a Christ with all the

manliness carefully eliminated, a creed that culminated in sentimental
revivals, that would not stand the rough usage of the camp, except in a
few cases, and those happily were generally called away in all their
genuine burning zeal before the cold shade of peaceful monotony had

Imore severely tried a faith that fed on excitement. It is not hard to find

a creed for a soldier to die with, it seems to me --at least have seen

Mahomet's answer well. A creed to live by is a very different thing.
The only alternative to the beautiful evangelical Christianity of such
happy soldiers as Hedley Vicars (Havelock was a Puritan out of his age),

the extreme evangelical doctrine to which most men are constitutionally

averse, was the slavish Roman, or what seemed its unpractical emasculate

aesthetic imitation. The average soldier found no rest, no place in

modern Christianity, until our apostle tore off the shreds and patches,

with which for ages the Divine figure of the God-man had been obscured;
He who found no such faith in Israel as that of the centurion. These

are solemn themes, and I have handled them perhaps roughly, not from

want of respect for the brave and good men, who have lived and died

in both extremes. I would have learnt very little from Charles Kingsley
if I had not learnt to respect both John Bunyan and Ignatius Loyola,
the soldier priest ! Feebly and foolishly perhaps I have tried to explain
to you, who no doubt know far better than I do, the reasons why soldiers

had such sympathy with him who sympathised with them, and has given

Ito thousands, I believe (for have heard private soldiers speak of his

books), the most priceless gift that man can bestow upon his brother.

ILong years ago in India, before I ever saw him, wrote to thank him,
Ianonymously, for what I and others of my comrades owed to him.

think it would only be just and useful, if a few extracts from his works

and special sermons could be collected and printed separately for soldiers'

Ilibraries.* But on whom has his mantle fallen ? Alas ! upon none, fear.

An army chaplain would be the fittest person ; but who ? The late

   * The little volume for Soldiers' Libraries will be undertaken, if life is spared, as
soon as this work is completed, and if not, will be committed to more competent

hands.

                     Silence in a Great Presence.                  375
                                                            As you are
...Chaplain-General was a grand old man in his way.
engaged on his life and letters, would not this fall in, except that it

would overtax an already overburthened heart in every sense ?

    "As you allude to his pleasure in seeing the semi-frozen fall of

Montmorency, with its boiling cauldron and marvellous cone of frozen
foam, it will seem so like him when I tell you that, as he stood on a little
platform over the abyss, I left him to commune with the nature he loved
Iso well.
           was afraid somebody would shout above the roar of the

torrent how many cubic feet of water per second went down etc., or

something of that sort. A little time afterwards he said, Thank you
                                                            '

                                                                    it,

                                                                                        ;

you understand me.        would as soon fellow talked and shouted to me
                  II                  ;
in  church as in  that presence.'            a
    " He knows     many things
                                   now  what unconsciously  he taught me

and others. Now feel with some remorse and shame how often
                                                               It
forget and fail to follow feebly where he led so straight.
                                                                       I
                                                               may be

some little consolation to you to know his kindly large-hearted pre

sence seems to come sometimes in the silent night into my study in the
old citadel, where sit, and remember him pacing the little room with

brave kind words to me, upon my dear mother's death, who also loved
and reverenced him. He spoke then of his readiness to go to his own
        .
place.         .          " Yours sincerely,
                       .                         " F. BLAND STRANGE."

                   I


              CHAPTER XXVIII.

                                                               1872.
                                                     Aged 53.

OPENING OF CHESTER CATHEDRAL NAVE-- DEATHS OF MR. MAURICE AND
     NORMAN McLEOD-- LETTERS TO MAX MULLER-- MRS. LUARD --MRS. H. V.
     -- MRS. TAYLOR --DEAN GOULBURN -- NOTES ON MODERN HYMNOLOGY --
      LECTURE AT BIRMINGHAM AND ITS RESULTS --LECTURE ON HEROISM AT

     CHESTER-- A Poem--CORRESPONDENCE ON THE ATHANASIAN CREED-

       LETTER FROM DR. KARL SCHULZE.

" No man can justly blame me for honouring my spiritual mother, the Church of
I IEngland, in whose womb was conceived, at whose breast
                                                          was nourished, and in
Iwhose bosom hope to die. Bees by the instinct of Nature do love their hives, and

birds their nests. But, God is my witness, that, according to my uttermost talent and

poor understanding, I have endeavoured to set down the naked truth impartially,

without either favour or prejudice, the two capital enemies of right judgment. The

one of which, like a false mirror, doth represent things fairer and straighter than they

are ; the other, like the tongue infected with choler, makes the sweetest meats to taste

bitter. My desire hath been to have Truth for my chiefest friend and no enemy but

Error."  Bishop Bramhall.

                 CHAPTER XXVIII.

   The year began at Eversley with the usual winter's parish
work, night-schools, Penny Readings, &c, which were only inter

rupted by his going to the opening of Chester Cathedral, the
nave of which had been shut up for repairs. He writes on
January 24 :

   " Scribbling in Deacle's study. Service this afternoon magnificent.
Cathedral quite full. Anthem, ' Send out Thy Light.' Collection, ^105.

Cathedral looks lovely, and I have had a most happy day. Every one
glad to see me, and enquiries after you all. I do love this place and

people, and long to be back here for our spring residence."

   Mr. Maurice's death in March, and Dr. Norman McLeod's,
saddened him, and warned him of the consequences of an over
worked brain. " Ah," he said, on hearing of the latter, " he is an
instance of a man who has worn his brain away, and he is

gone as I am surely going." Work of all kinds seemed now to

redouble ; and the mere letters refusing sermons, lectures, church
openings, and kind invitations from friends in England and
Scotland, who were eager to give him the rest and refreshment
which he so sorely needed, gave constant employment to his

home secretary. He toiled on, dreaming of that time of " learned
leisure " for which a Canonry he held should provide ; but which
did not as yet fall to his lot ; and those who watched him most
closely and loved him best felt that if rest ever came it would

come too late. " Better," however, he said, " to wear out than
rust out."

                           TO PROFESSOR MAX MULLER.

                                                                         Eversley, Feb. 19, 1872.

   I" have read your gallant words about Bishop Patteson in the Times.
I did not know him ; but it is at least a comfort to me to read words

written in such a tone in this base generation.

-1 So Charles Kingsley.

" By all means let us have a memorial to him. But where ? In a

painted window, or a cross here in England ? Surely not. But on the

very spot where he died. There let the white man, without anger or
revenge, put up some simple and grand monolith, if you will ; something

at least which the dark man cannot make, and which instead of defacing,

he will rather worship as a memorial to the Melanesian and his children,
which they would interpret for themselves. So, indeed, ' he being dead

would yet   speak.'     If it please you I will say more on the matter."
   " Think  over this.

                        TO MRS. LUARD.

                                                (On Mr. Maurice's Death.)

                                                                                        April 4, 1872.
   " Your letter to F. was a comfort to me, as is every word from any one

who loved and appreciated him. You, too, saw that his work was done.

I Ihad seen death in his face for, may almost say, two years past,

and felt that he needed the great rest of another life. And now he

has

   " see that you were conscious of the same
beauty which gradually discovered in his face.
I it.                                           extraordinary personal
          I
                                                If were asked, Who
                                  I
                                                    II

                                                                                     a
was the handsomest, and who the most perfectly gentlemanlike man you

ever met? should answer, without hesitation, Mr. Maurice.
           I

" Again, thanks for your letter.  must write, too hurriedly, something

for publication about him in the next few days. Your letter will help as

an inspiration. Thank you for sending me your love; have great deal

of which do not deserve. Let me send mine to you and to your
it

        I

husband."

            TO THE VERY REV. THE DEAN OF NORWICH.

                                        EVersley, Feb. 28, 1872.

" In acknowledging the pamphlet,* on the proposed changes
AI                                                                                      cathe
                                   a
                                                        it.
                                                                                                        in
                                                                               I
dral establishments, which you have done me the honour to send me,

must express my deep pleasure at finding one man at least among us

who sees the truth and dare speak
   " have long seen desire, on the part of certain bishops, to acquire,

under the name of organization, powers hitherto unknown in the Church

   * letter addressed to the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Archbishop of York
on the subject of Cathedral Reform, by Edward Meyrick Goulburn, Dean of Norwich,

1872.

                     A Deathless Love.                                                                381

of England, to be exercised not directly by themselves, but by nominees

and servants of their own, archdeacons and rural deans. That this en
croachment, if allowed, would destroy the manly freedom which English

rectors have long enjoyed, and make the whole clergy slaves of the

bishop, pro tern., is clear.  ;       in addition to this, the bishops fill the

cathedrals with nominees of their own, and remodel the cathedral bodiesIf,

till they become mere working diocesan machines, then 'increased

activity may be obtained but the Holy Orders of the English Church
      I'
Ifwillhave   become   no fit place   for scholars
            were to  suggest any    alteration in
   "                                                                 our  cathedral     bodies  it  would

be this, that the patronage of canonries should be taken from the bishops,

and vested entirely in the Crown.     I  fear that that step, however, would

be too much in the right direction to be taken by any ministry. Mean

while, you speak further on this matter, let me beg you to warn the
      if

rec"toBrse,lietvheat,mwehewnithousrinlcibereertyresaps eccatnaonnds  goes, theirs will  soon    follow.
                                                                     agreement."

                              TO MRS. TAYLOR.

                                                                                     EVERSLEY, 1872.

"Though much desire that the game laws should be amended, as
          I
               I

                   (I I
                                                    ;
                                           I
                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                                         a
far as regards ground-game (but not as regards pheasants and partridges,
which are the farmer's good friends), do not feel called on to join any

Anti-Game- Law League and the more so, because with all respect for

you, personally, perceive that those who are at present attacking the

Ifgam" elaws are deeply ignorant of the real facts of the case.                               before                        Par
         any bill for amending the game laws shall be brought

liament, shall be most ready and willing to help                                     as far as very

long experience do not shoot myself) enables me to judge of its justice

and wisdom."

                              TO MRS. H. V.

                     (On the death of her husband.)

                                                                          Chester, May 23, 1872.

" write to you because know that every expression of human
I

    if
                           ;
                             a
                              is I
                                           if
                                                              it
                                                    I
sympathy brings some little comfort,                                 be only to remind such as you

that you are not alone in the world, but that your loss draws towards you

all the more those who love or even esteem you.                           know nothing can

make up for such loss as yours. But you will still have love on earth

all round you and his love not dead. It lives still in the next world

for you, and perhaps with you. For, why should not those who are

gone, they are gone to their Lord, be actually nearer us, not further

382 Charles Kingsley.

from us, in the heavenly world, praying for us, and it may be influencing
and guiding us in a hundred ways, of which we, in our prison-house of

mo"rtYaleitsy,!  cannot dream ?     to believe  that                    he is  near  you, and you             near
                  Do not be afraid

him, and both of you near God, who died on the cross for you. That
Iis all can say. But what comfort there is in
                 in                                                                  one can give up
                     it

                            !

                                   ;a
                                                                     it,

                                                          if

                                                                                                        a
one's heart to believe

   " May God bless you, and give you strength and faith to bear and to

believe."

:  This spring Dr. Monsell requested several friends to help him
with suggestions making new Hymnary for his congregation
  aof St. Nicholas, Guildford and for this purpose sent each
specimen copy " to draw out their careful criticism," in which
they were requested to note errors, and correct them, to make
remarks, marking their relative approval of each hymn by
affixing A. B. and C. to them, " to denote first, second, and third
quality."

   Mr. Kingsley was just then over-worked, and had only time to
make few brief notes on the margin when he returned the
book

                         "36.-- Paradise, O Paradise
                                    The world growing old.
                 1I0 O

                                   O is

                                                                    !!
                                              Paradise, Paradise
?'                                              want to sin no more,I'         '                               growing
                                                                                                              long* or
  I                                         want to be as pure on earth,               I'
                                        As on thy spotless shore.                                 is

   " Whence did the author of this hymn learn that the world
old object much to the use of want to,' instead of

desire.

                      " No. 40. --PILGRIMS OF THE NIGHT.

                       Hark hark, my soul, angelic songs are swelling,
                             O'er earth's green fields and ocean's wave beat shore
                 !
                                                                                                           ;

                 Angels of Jesus, angels of night,
                 Singing to welcome the pilgrims of the light.

                 Onward we go and still we hear them singing,

                 !Angels sing on your faithful watches keeping,
                    Sing us sweet fragments of the songs above, &c.

Sensationalism and Reality.                                   383

  I" have always objected to this hymn, as a direct invocation of angels,

and as also ' unreal.' People do not hear the angels singing over fields

and seas.

                   " No. 61. -- For thee, O dear, dear country,

                                                  Our eyes their vigils keep ;
                                         For very love beholding

                                            Thy happy name, they weep.

I" have always objected to the first four lines of this hymn. Con
Igregations do not lie awake or weep, thinking of heaven.
                                                              dread all

exaggerated language. It should be left for non-conformists.

              " No. 102. --Lord, in Thy mercy's day,

                                            Ere from us it pass away,
                                            On our knees we fall and pray.
                                       Holy Jesus, grant us /tars,

                                   Fill us with heart-searching fears,

                                            Ere that day of doom appears.

  I" object to ' grant us tears.' It savours of the old ' donum lachry-

marum,' which had a special virtue in itself; wherefore witches could
never cry ; also exaggerated for a whole congregation.

" No. 124.-- Sacred heart of Jesus,

                   Heart of God in man.

   " Should not this be ' Heart of man in God ? ' Not by conversion  of
the God-head into flesh, but by taking of the manhood into God.
                                                                     A
beautiful poem ; but not a congregational hymn.

 "Nos. 189, 192.-- LITANY OF THE PASSION AND LITANY TO THE
                                      SACRED HEART.

                                         ' ' When my feet have wandered
                                           From the narrow way,

                                             Out into the desert.

                                             Save me by the Passion
                                       Of Thy bleeding feet.

                                " Sacred Heart of Jesus, pour
                                   ILove on me while adore,

                                           Sacred Heart I Thy love.

  I" shrink from these two, especially from the former. They are,

historically, connected with a creed which we have renounced, and all

imitations of which I at least dread ; and they are quite alien in tone to

384 Charles Kingsley.

any speech of St. Paul or St. John concerning our Lord's person, either
in the Epistles or the Revelations.

   "Nos. 139, 140, 169, 170.      Why are Rogation Sundays connected
                                   The Rogation days were appointed--
with agricultural thanksgiving ?
" i st. For prayer against volcanic eruptions ; 2nd. Against the irrup

tion and devastations of the Teutonic ' barbarians.'

          " No.  140.-- My best beloved spake to me,
                            And unto me did say,

                          Rise up, my love, my fair one,
                              Rise up and come away.

" I should doubt the fitness of this, graceful as it                is,  for congregational

singing.  " No. 170. -- Praise to God --immortal praise,

                             For the love that crowns our days.

                 For the vine's reviving juice,
                 For the gen'rous olive's use.

                 Should the fig-tree's blighted shoot
                 Drop her green untimely fruit;

                 Should the vine put forth no more,
                 Nor the olive yield her store.

" regret the use of vine,' olive,' and fig in the hymns of a
II               '                          '                if ' '
                            is '                 ?
country in which those crops are not cultivated.     '             Reality (as' it      now
                                                                                    is

called) in the service of God               very important,          we are to counter

balance the unreality of sensational hymns.

          " No. 106. -- Art thou weary, art thou languid,

                                 Art thou sore distrest

   " am heartily glad that you have put martyrs in the last verse for'
the utterly inadmissible virgins ofthe original. But never have con

sidered this hymn as congregational one.
                 a                                                   I
                      '
                                         '

          " No. 112. -- Come, ye children ofthe Lord,

                             Let us all with one accord.

                 Long in darkness did he wait,;
                 Sorrowful and desolate
                 Now in deepest shades of grief,
                 Come before the last relief.

Christ the Risen and Ascended King.                                                385

  I" A good hymn ; but cannot but feel that hymns to Christ, as the

ascended and triumphant King of the universe, are more fitting, because

more true than any which, by a stretch of dramatic imagination, fancy
Him still in His humiliation.

" No.                 "No. 121.-- GOOD FRIDAY.
                " O sacred head once wounded,

                      With grief and shame bowed down, &c.

                122.-- Jesus, gentle sufferer, say,
                         How shall we, this dreadful day, &c.

   " Let it be always remembered that the Church in the Collects, and we
in our name ' Good Friday,' give the key-note for devotion on this day.

                       "No. 177.-- HOLY COMMUNION.
                               " My love is like a Rose,

                                                  Whose rich perfume
                                               Through all the garden flows,

                                             And in His bloom

                          I'll deck myself, when I would glorious be,

                                Fit to sit down, and feast, my God with thee.

                               " My love is like a Lily,

                                                        &c., &c.

I" humbly deprecate all hymns adapted from the canticles.

                            "No. 196.-- MISERERE DOMINE.
                           " My sin, my sin, O God, my sin

                                         Lies heavy on this heart within,

                                All through the dreary live-long day,

                                        Wearing my aimless life away.

   I" A most beautiful poem, though not a congregational hymn ; but

do not understand the allusions in the last two verses to our Lord's fast.

                " Thy fast, Thy fast, O God, Thy fast,

                   Shall thus become my feast at last.

    " Christ is not represented as having fasted for man, but as having

died for man. And I think words concerning His death would be pre

ferable. For by His death we are forgiven.
   " You will forgive my not having put A against Hie breve vivitur--

Jerusalem the   golden.     For thee,   oh ! dear, dear country,   and several
of that cycle.                                                     them ; their
                 I may   be fastidious  ; but I cannot approve of

very popularity makes their soundness the more suspected by me. In

vol. 11.                                                                       cc

386 Charles Kings ley.

the Church of God I shrink from singing hymns to ' heaven,' just as to

angels. We are there to worship God, not heaven, which is a created

thing."

   These fragments of criticism may seem superfluous to some :
but he had very strong views on Hymnology, and there being
no letter to express them, and nothing printed on the subject
except in the Preface to the " Westminster Sermons," it would
be doing him injustice to suppress them. He regretted deeply
the adoption of hymns, which he considered combined the
faults of Puritanism, Mysticism, and Romanism ; he deplored
words being put into the mouths of a general congregation
which were unreal to them -- individual confessions of sin, too
solemn to be sung, and ardent expressions of a love almost

amounting to passion, which if not felt must therefore be an
unconscious insult to Him to whom they were addressed. This

unfitness in the new hymnologies shocked him so, that he often
said he longed to go back to selections of the discarded old
and new version of the Psalms of David, as less objectionable for
that part of public worship where praise should predominate
over prayer and confession of sin.

    In the autumn he went to Birmingham, where he had often
been asked to give lectures. It was a town for which he had
great respect, as being one of the best drained in England, and
where in all the cholera visitations there had been the fewest
cases of cholera (in one visitation only one, and that an imported
case). He had been urged, and could not well refuse, to be
 President of the Midland Institute for the year. As President,
 he was bound to give the Inaugural Address. The subject he
 chose was the Science of Health, and the noble response given to
 his lecture, will make it long remembered in Birmingham. Lord
 Lyttelton was in the chair, and received him with marked
 kindness. It was one of his best and most suggestive lectures.
 Special reporters were sent down by leading London news
 papers, and the following morning the " Times " gave him a
 leading article, which, after speaking of other Institutes and other

 speakers, adds :

     " But everybody was prepared to expect Canon Kingsley to exhibit the

A Great Reward.  387

development of the Institute in a more striking and picturesque light.
Every one of his topics and suggestions appears to us strictly in the
lines of an Inaugural Address to the Institute of a great manufacturing
town like Birmingham. Yet we could fancy that some, even among the
most hopeful originators of this movement, would have opened their
eyes upon hearing the acquisition of the Spanish and Portuguese lan
guages urged as a means of making one's fortune in South America, and
on finding, put in the first place, nearly to the exclusion of all other
subjects, the necessity of studying the laws of health and strength, of
physical succession, natural selection, and morbid degeneracy, especially
as illustrated in the dwarfed and enervated population of our large
towns, in unhappy marriages, and expiring families. We feel really
obliged to the Canon for taking the bull by the horns, and telling these

townsfolk some very simple truths, with the further remark that they
have only to use their eyes, their memories, and their understandings,
and then they will learn a great deal more than he can tell them."

  The Lecture bore fruit at once. A gentleman of Birmingham

(a manufacturer), who had been long wishing to promote scien
tific knowledge among the working-classes of Birmingham, and
had long deplored the ignorance prevailing on the subject of
health, without the idea occurring to him of making it a distinct
object of study, on hearing the address immediately decided to
devote the sum of 2,$00l. to found classes and Lectures on Human
Physiology and the Science of Health, believing, with Mr. Kings-

ley, that if people's interest could only be excited on the subject,

physical improvement would be followed by moral and mental

improvement, and the hospitals, and even prisons and mad
houses, would be relieved of many cases which have their origin
in mere ignorance of the laws of health and physiology.

    The immediate result of this lecture was perhaps the highest

earthly reward ever granted to him, and had he lived to see the
still greater results which Mr. Ryland's letter point to, his soul

would have been satisfied. He may see it now --God knows !

  A draft scheme of the application of the gift to lectures, open

to artisans on the lowest possible scale of payment for admis
sion, &c., was sent to the council of the institute, and submitted

by Mr. Ryland to Mr. Kingsley, who replied :

388 Charles Kingsley.

" MY DEAR SIR,               EVERSLEY RECTORY, October 13, 1872.

      " I need not say how deeply pleased I am, let me say honestly

thankful to God, that any words of mine should call out so practical a
response, and presume that I am not yet permitted to thank your gene
                       I shall, I trust, do so some day. Your plan
rous fellow-townsman.

seems to me as good as can be devised. Only you do not specify

Iwhether your teacher is to be man or woman. I confess that con

sider a woman-teacher just now as far more important than a man.

  " I thank you and the good people of Birmingham for all the kind

Iness have received."

                             EVERSLEY RECTORY, October 21, 1872.

  I" beg to return the paper which you have sent me, with the expres
Ision of my deep satisfaction, and may say, personal gratitude. Your
friend will be doing, I believe, solid and lasting good to generations yet

Iunborn, and I trust that his noble example may be followed in every
great town of these realms.  think the first title, ' The Teaching of
Physiology to the Working Classes,' is the better of the two. But I

would define it as ' Human Physiology,' or better, as ' The Science of
IHealth.'
           quite agree that it would be better to use the capital during

the first ten years as the donor proposes.

  " I have the same fear which the paper you send expresses, that the

scheme might starve without such more liberal assistance at first. For

instance, a grant might be given to a mother's or married women's class,
Ifrom which men would be excluded.
                                    am, as you know, solicitous for

some such exclusively woman's teaching.

   "The prizes question I had sooner leave to those who practically

know the working of the Institute.
   " But an essay, now and then, on the subject, open to all comers of a

certain grade, would be most useful, and stir up many minds even more

than lectures.

   " It will be necessary to take care that the lectures are really practical

lectures on the science and art of health, and not on mere scientific
Ifphysiology.
               not, they are likely to become mere lectures on com

parative anatomy, or other non-practical, or at least, purely scientific
branch. You will have to find, and you will have some trouble in find

ing, men who really know about drains and bed-rooms, etc., and who are

not above talking of them. Let me be so bold as to advise your friend
to consult, above all men, Dr. Edwin Lankester, and to look at his

Iadmirable little ' Practical Physiology,' to see what should be taught, and
how.  must believe that Dr. Lankester would give him far better hints

                       Teachers Taught a New Science.                                             389

than I, and that if he could be persuaded to give a lecture under this

end"oAwgmaeinn,t   it  would be a  great success.  of your                  friend's  generosity  and
                  let  me express  my deep sense

wisdom, and to hope that some day he will allow me to know him, and

to express my feelings by word of mouth."

    Arthur Ryland, Esq.

    The next letter will interest all who care for Sanitary Science.

                                   LYNTHURST HILL, BIRMINGHAM,

    " DEAR MRS. KINGSLEY,                          Dec. 28, 1875.

    " In addition to the general statement in my former letter, that

the foundation of the class at the Birmingham and Midland Institute

for teaching the laws of health, the subsequent exhibition for Teachers'

Exhibition in connection with and the foundation of a similar class
                                   it
                                          it,

                                                         a
                                                                                  a

                                                                                                            it
and exhibition at Saltley Training College, were the direct result of
Canon Kingsley's address to the members of the institute in 1872,

may be interesting to you to know some particulars of these classes, as

an  "eFvirdoemncetheofptrhineteedxtepnrotpoofsathl etogofoodunddoneclbayss  that address.
                                                                             at the Institute,
                                                                                                you will

have learned that my friend was moved to make that proposal by Canon
Kingsley's address. He came to me immediately after he had heard

that address, and said that had quite determined him how to carry

into effect the desire he had long felt to aid the Institute work.
    " The hearty approval of Canon Kingsley was
                                                                            great encourage

ment.

   " The class was established, and on the recommendation of Professor

Huxley and Dr. Lyon Playfair, we appointed Professor Corfield, M.D.,
to conduct it. It was more numerously attended than any other of our

science classes. At the close of the academical year the pupils (whose
average attendance was 161) were examined by Dr. E. A. Parkes,
Professor of Military Hygiene in the Army Medical School. In his

report on the result of his examination, he expressed his surprise with
the information displayed in some of the answers, and observed that all

were fairly correct that the lectures had been judiciously arranged
    a
                     ;
                              ;

                                       a
                                               a;

                                                                                  a
                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                              a;
had been followed by the class and were clearly comprehended. The
founder's two prizes of 10/. each, were awarded -- one to an assistant

school-mistress the other to servant employed in manufactory as

warehouseman. At the close of the second year the pri zes were awarded --

one to lady-assistant in girls' school, who informed me that she heard

Canon Kingsley's address, and was so fired with determination to study

39° diaries Kingsley.

the subject, that she had never been absent from one of Dr. Corfield's
lectures, and had determined to teach the subject in her school. The
other prize was awarded to a warehouseman in a manufactory. In addi

tion to the prizes, certificates were on each occasion awarded ; and the

recipients comprised medical students, artizans, schoolmasters and mis

tresses,  and   apprentices.  mine,  whose  attention  was attracted  by the good
          1874  a friend of
   " In

work done at the Institute, and who was anxious to induce teachers to

study hygiene, and so put themselves to teach it in their schools, placed

in my hands the sum of 4,200/. for that purpose. Of this sum 1,200/.

was given to the Institute, upon the condition that the income should be

applied in providing two exhibitions of 20/. each, to be awarded to the
two most meritorious students of the laws of health, being teachers, or

intending to enter that profession. The exhibition to be enjoyed for

two years, provided the exhibitioner should teach the subject in his or
her school during that period. This we call the Teacher? Exhibitions.
It has induced many teachers to enter the class ; and of the first exhi

bitions --one awarded was to a schoolmaster in a National school.

The remainder of the sum, namely, 3000/., was vested in trustees for the

founding of a class on the laws of health at Saltley College, with four

exhibitions of 10/. each, tenable for two years ; conditioned that the suc

cessful candidates shall teach the subject in his school during the period
of two years. This class is conducted by Dr. Corfield ; and the first

examination by Dr. Parkes.
    " Saltley College is a large institution for the training of schoolmasters;

and until the establishment of this class no instruction was given on the

laws of health.
   " The number of students who attended the lectures at Saltley last

year was forty-nine. One of the exhibitioners has received an appoint
ment as master of a school near Wolverhampton, and he has there in

troduced the laws of health as a subject of instruction. The other

exhibitioner is expecting an appointment, and he will do the same in his

school. So that the good fruit of Canon Kingsley's address is not con

fined to Birmingham. The masters sent out from Saltley carry into many

distant schools the power and the obligation to teach the subject. Fifty

masters leave the college every year, and all attend the lectures, although

only two receive exhibitions.

   " And another good fruit which I have not mentioned, is the delivery

of lectures by ladies to mothers and daughters of artizans in Birmingham.

The lady who began this work, and who does it with remarkable ability

and success, writes to me that before she heard Canon Kingsley's address

she had felt a strong desire to give instruction on the laws of health, from

         Dreams Fulfilled and Unfulfilled.                               391

observing the ignorance of the mothers whose homes she visited ; and

adds, ' But it was after hearing Canon Kingsley that my wishes became
Isufficiently vivid to make me overcome my natural laziness.
                                                                         have

always felt that had it not been for Canon Kingsley's earnestness, my

vag"uOe fdethseirems amnyighetlonqoutenhtaveanfdorminedevtehreymswealvyesadmintiroabalcets.'addresses de

livered by the presidents of our Institute, none has produced such truly

good fruit as did that of Canon Kingsley.

  " I trust, and I believe, that in the spirit land he may know more of

these results than even we do here.
                          " Believe me, with much respect,
                                                   " Yours very truly,

                                                      " Arthur Ryland."

The particulars of a proposal to found a trust for promoting

the teaching of teachers in common schools the laws of health,

will be found in the Appendix to this volume. It was submitted

to Mr. Kingsley in October, 1874, when illness prevented his

writing at length on the subject, but he concludes his letter, after

pointing to the scheme which he thought would give the whole

subject a fixed academical status, with these characteristic words :
" Alas ! alas ! why can we not have a Professor of it at Cambridge

and another at Oxford, and make every young landowner and
                                                    "
student  for holy orders  attend  their lectures
                                                  ?
Many of his dreams --social, sanatory, and others --equally

improbable as they seemed at the time, have been realised ; per

haps this, too, may, when the day dawns in which man's body,
the temple of the Holy Ghost, will be considered as divine as
his soul -- the workmanship of one Creator, in whose sight both

are equally sacred.

The Chester City Library and Reading-room were just now

very low in funds, and in want of modern books ; and the com
mittee applied to the Canon to help them out of their difficul

ties. He writes at once to Mr. Shone from Eversley :

   " Of course -- what did I come to Chester for, if not to help in such

a case ? Will you and your friends make all arrangements, and send me

a reminder about the beginning of November, that I may have time to
Ithink over something which may interest our dear good Chester folk.
should like you and my friends to look at what I said at the Midland

392 Charles Kingsley.

Institute, Birmingham, about the science of health and physical educa
Ition.
        spoke from long knowledge ; and be sure we all need to think

about the subject very seriously, else our grandchildren will be by no
                                      "
means  such  big  men  as  you  are
                                     !

Some days later he writes : " The subject of my lecture will
                  I mean
....be Heroism.            it to be a prologue to a set     of lectures
                  to give  at Chester during my next        residence "
which I hope
       (in May, 1873). This residence never took place; but the
Lecture on Heroism* was given on November 22, 1872, most

successfully, as far as its pecuniary object, and doubtless it found

a response in many hearts. The Duke of Westminster, foremost

as usual in giving the lead to all noble thought and noble work

in the old city, was in the chair. The next evening, after attend

ing the last Chapter, at which he was ever present, the Canon

gave a lecture on Deep-Sea Dredging to the Scientific Society,

of which he was still president --the last words he spoke to his

beloved class.

   It was a year of hard work, and owing to this and to the

increasing infirmities of his mother, who was in her 85th year,
and lived with him, he scarcely left home for more than a

few days. The three months now at Chester and the four

yearly sermons at Windsor, Sandringham, Whitehall, and St.
James's, made him unwilling to give up his Eversley people for a
single Sunday. So that he had no intermission of work; and his

only rest this year was four days in the English Lakes in June,
yachting for the inside of a week with Lord Carnarvon in autumn,
and a short visit to his dear friends General and Mrs. Napier, at
Oaklands ; indeed, since he returned from the West Indies,

nearly three years before, he had preached every Sunday once,

if not twice.

   The late autumn brought a time of severe anxiety and illness

in his household ; but once again before clouds thickened, his
heart had bubbled up into song, and after the last meet of the
foxhounds, at which he was ever present, in front of Bramshill
House -- a sight he had loved for years, and to which he always

                  * Republished in "Health and Education."

The Delectable Day.                                 393

took his children and friends, --he put these lines into his wife's

hands :

       "THE DELECTABLE DAY.                       November 6, 1872.

" The boy on the famous grey pony,

     Just bidding goodbye at the door,
  Plucking up maiden heart for the fences

      Where his brother won honour of yore.

" The walk to 'the Meet ' with fair children,

      And women as gentle as gay, --
  Ah ! how do we male hogs in armour

       Deserve such companions as they ?

" The afternoon's wander to windward,

     To meet the dear boy coming back ;
  And to catch, down the turns of the valley,

      The last weary chime of the pack.

" The climb homeward by park and by moorland,

      And through the fir forests again,
  While the south-west wind roars in the gloaming,

      Like an ocean of seething champagne.

" And at night the septette of Beethoven,

      And the grandmother by in her chair,
  And the foot of all feet on the sofa

       Beating delicate time to the air.

" Ah, God ! a poor soul can but thank Thee

For such a delectable day !

Though the fury, the fool, and  the  s!w"indler,
   To-morrow again have their   way

   He was asked and consented this year to join the Committee
for the Defence of the Athanasian Creed. He had previously
signed addresses suggesting a modification or explanation of
the damnatory clauses from the Provinces of Canterbury and
York, when the Creed seemed most in danger. This apparent
ambiguity of purpose created some surprise, which the following
letters will explain. His views had not changed materially on
this point since he took holy orders, and in writing, in answer to
a request of Mr. Friswell's, for a contribution of one of his Ser

mons to a Christmas book, he says :

394 Charles Kings ley.

   " You shall certainly have a Sermon. My puzzle is this : your book

is meant for all manner of readers. I hold very strictly orthodox doc
trine as regards the Athanasian Creed, though, as you well know, I curse

no one who does not. Now it would be hard to find a sermon of mine

...in which that was not expressed, or, at least, broadly implied. And how
would that suit your publication ? I, of course, could not in honour
                                  I should probably send you
expunge any word on that matter.

one touching on the ' gentle life,' and telling all ranks that they can be

gentlemen and ladies without being either rich or revolutionary if they

will be only what all folk should be, good Christians."

TO REV. M. McCOLL.

                                  EVERSLEY RECTORY, October 30, 1872.

   " Engagements to-day render it quite impossible for me to attend your

committee. . . . You may be aware that I have signed the addresses

from both archbishoprics, recommending some change ; but in my case,
Ionly in the sense of an alteration in the damnatory clauses.
                                                               should

allow even that with very great reluctance, as a concession to the invincible

ignorance on eschatology, which fills the modern puritanic and Lockite

mind. But I would rather have no alteration at all than lose the Creed

as an element of public worship.

   " But --and this is most important to me --may I ask if it is altogether

the best way of doing our work to organize public meetings about Eng
Iland, or even to have a central meeting in London ?
                                                         dread, from

experience, all public meetings where discussion on high and holy things

is likely to be mixed, as it must be, with something of controversial tem

per. Let us remember the unfortunate meeting at St. James's Hall ;
and beware. My dread is lest we should cast that which is holy to the
dogs of criticism, and our pearls before the swine of frivolity and ribaldry.

Surely this is a matter rather for prelates, divines, and scholars, than for

public meetings, which are always of the world, worldly, and of the flesh,

fleshly, let us try as we may to keep them spiritual. I could not attend
such a meeting because I could not speak my heart about that precious
Iand noble Creed as could in the pulpit. My rule has been to preach

the Athanasian Creed from the pulpit in season and out of season ; to

ground not merely my whole theological, but my whole ethical teaching,

Iformally and openly on it ; to prevent, as far as could, people from

thinking it a dead formula, or even a mere string of intellectual dogmas.

And if I were (from my experience) to dare to offer a suggestion to your

committee, it would be to call on all clergy who value the Creed to preach

it continually, and make their congregations feel something at least of its

A Neglected Catholic Doctrine.                                    395

Ivalue. But only speak with hesitation, and am ready to be convinced
if I am wrong."

                                   Eversley, Nov. 8, 1872.

"Many thanks for your cordial letter, which has satisfied me on

more points than one.                                                 I

  " I now take the liberty of sending you a paper of suggestions.

must say of them that they are the outcome of long years of anxious

thought, and that I trust you will therefore give them fair consideration.

IAny criticism on them which you may send me shall receive with

respect ; for I perceive from your able writing on the Athanasian Creed that
you are -- what is but too rare in these slip-slop days --a sound formal

theologian.

  " I send these first, for your own perusal ; and next, that if you think

they may lead to any safe and orthodox practical result, they may be
Ishown privately to such members of your committee as you think fit.
Ionly beg that they may not be allowed to get into print.
                                                           hate seeing

these matters (which are to me as my own soul) in the columns of a

newspaper ; and I am at once too sensitive and too busy to face any
controversy in print. What I think shall be at your service; but I would

prefer to be behind the scenes.
" I hear that my friend Plumptre has been writing in the Guardian
Iabout my joining your committee.
                                   entreat any one who wishes me
Iwell not to answer him. Time and silence find are the best answers,

whether to an enemy or (as in this case) to a respected friend."

     FOR THE PRIVATE CONSIDERATION OF THE COMMITTEE.

                                                                                                      fiov., 1872.

   " This seems to me the time for sound churchmen to use a fresh
weapon in defence of the Athanasian Creed, by bringing forward a
somewhat neglected Catholic doctrine -- that of the intermediate state,

Ior states. Thus, too, may say in passing, the Church would be shown

to be on this -- as on other points -- more and not less liberal than her

dissenting opponents.

   "The Athanasian Creed is now construed by the people, in the light

Iof Puritan Eschatology -- i.e., of the doctrine which the Puritans (as far

as know) introduced first, namely, that the fate of every man is
irrevocably fixed at the moment of death.

   " I need not tell you that this is not the Catholic doctrine ; that the

Church has held, from a very early age, the belief in an intermediate
state. That belief was distorted and abused, in later times, as the

396 Charles Kingsley.

Romish doctrine of purgatory. But the denunciation of that doctrine

in the Thirty-nine Articles (as Dr. Newman pointed out, if I recollect

rightly, in Tract 90), does not denounce any primitive doctrine of

purgatory, nay rather allows            is it,  by the defining adjective Romish.'
                                                                                     '

That this Puritan Eschatology no part of the Creed of the Church of

England, proved by her final rejection of the Article affirming endless
         is
             is

                  I
pun"isIhtmenats. well here to say, that          do not deny endless punishment.
                                        it

                                              I
On the contrary, believe possible for me, and other Christian men,
                                                          --arao-BatAa
by loss of God's grace, to commit               acts  of                sins         against  light

and knowledge, which would plunge us into endless abysses of probably

increasing sin, and therefore of probably increasing and endless punish

ment.

   " But say that to predicate endless punishment, from the moment

of death of those who either sin, or misbelieve, not of draadaXia, but

of weakness or invincible ignorance, not required by the Church of
England, nor (as far as am aware) by the Churches of Rome or of
Greece and that the doctrine of an intermediate state, has been in all

Christian ages and lands (save where Puritan influences have prevailed),
the refuge of the sense of justice and pity in man from so terrible
       ;I                                        is
                        I
                                                        '
doctrine.  in         plain again that men have no right to read the Athanasian             it
             it                                        it                                         in is a
   " Now,         is

Creed in this Puritan sense. In whatsoever age was composed, was
                                                              it

                                                                                  ;
composed by one who believed in the intermediate state and there

nothing    its language to hint that he held that there was no hope

that state for the unorthodox whom he denounced nothing to hint that
                                                              ;
                                                                        '
he held with the old Crusaders, that an infidel went straight to hell. So

guardedly vague are the expressions of the Creed, as to perishing ever

lastingly,' and everlasting salvation,' that might be believed and used'

honestly by one who did not hold the necessary immortality of the

soul,' and therefore thought the final annihilation of the wicked

possible.                                                                               it

   " The Creed says, and truly, that the knowledge of God, and alone,
   everlasting life. It does not say that that knowledge may not be
is
                                                                                     in this life,
     It

            is
                             it.

                                    it
vouchsafed hereafter to those have sought honestly for                      it,

but through unfortunate circumstances, or invincible ignorance, have

failed to find        Provided the search be honestly continued in the

unknown realms beyond the grave, the Athanasian Creed does not

deny that the seeker, may be, after heavy pains and long wanderings,

shall      at last discover his Saviour and his God, and discover that for

Him"   he  had been yearning though he knew               it  not.
           almost needless for me to point out,             how such
                                                                        an  interpretation

   Puritan Misinterpretation of Catholic Doctrine. 397

of the Athanasian Creed would relieve the consciences of thousands,

without              seems to  --meh) owforfeitinwgouoldur  strict  honesty, or  our claim   to
Catholic           orthodoxy                                make     the Creed    tolerable  to
'                                  I it

              ; (it
thousands to whom (under its Puritan misinterpretation)                          now in
                                                                    I
tolerable and would render unnecessary that alteration of the so-called                    it
                                                                                               is
 damnatory clauses,' to which have consented with much unwilling                                     it
ness, and only as concession to the invincible ignorance of modern
                            'a                                                                     if
Puritanism.
   " have reason to believe that the English mind (and possibly the
   I
                     specially ripe just now for receiving once more this great
            is
Scotch)
Catholic doctrine of the intermediate state, and that by preaching with

all prudence, as well as with all manfulness, we should cut the ground from
under our so-called Liberal adversaries' feet. say --with all prudence.
For plain that unguarded latitude of expression might easily awaken

   cry that we were going to introduce the Romish doctrine of purgatory,'
a                                  '
       it                                                '
           is

and to proceed to 'pardons' and 'masses for the dead.' But that

we keep cautiously               within the limits permitted        by truly Catholic an
                                 in motion a mighty engine          for the Church's help
tiquity, we shall set                                               have no doubt what
in her need, as                    student of public opinion,
                     I I,
                                a
soever. While fear, on the other hand, that unless we take the course

I  have pointed out, we shall lose, to our extreme injury, not only on

the so-called damnatory clauses,' but (for all practical purposes) the'
Creed itself."

                                                                    Harrow, April 1873.
                                                                    is
   " You are very kind, and should gladly hear what good and wise
Lord Lyttelton has to say about the question of the day. For such,      I
                               I                                                 it, 6,I
                                       I
be sure              is. But must go to Eversley that very day for Good
I
     I

                 it
                       it.
Friday, and must be satisfied with reading what said, and carefully

per"penadmingmuch obliged to you for your congratulations on Westminster.

   never hoped, and never deserved, such a post. Now have                                 trust

the Church will not find me sluggard, however ignorant or unwise."
                                   Ia
   " am really sorry that                  cannot be at the meeting on the 31st.
   I                                      a

But will you allow me to send short but formal letter addressed to you,

expressing my sense of the importance of the meeting, and what should

have said had spoken? If this could be read, so as to be heard by
    it I                                                                         II
               it I                                                                   .
the meeting, would at least satisfy my conscience and honour.                              .
                                                                                                .
   "                                                                                           ."
         am unfortunately unable to be present on the 31st. But cannot
let      pass without some expression of opinion as well as of strong

sympathy.

398 Charles Kingsley.

   " I have long held that the maintenance of the Athanasian Creed by

the Church of England will exercise a most potent and wholesome in
fluence not only on the theology, but on the science, both physical and
metaphysical of all English-speaking nations for generations to come.

   " I feel for, though I cannot feel with, the objections of many excellent
Ipersons to the so-called damnatory clauses ; but believe that those
objections would gradually die out, if there were appended to the

Creed, in our Prayer-book, an explanatory clause, which expressed, or
at least allowed, the true and ancient Catholic doctrine, concerning the
future state."

       LETTER TO THE EDITOR OF "THE GUARDIAN," 1873.

"SIR,
          " My letter concerning the Ancient Catholic Doctrine of the

IFuture State (read at St. James's Hall), and its connexion with the

Athanasian Creed, has called out, find, many comments, both in your

Ipaper and in private letters to me which beg leave to answer, once

and"  for  all, in  your  estimable columns.        to lay down  the  law as
           is not    for  me, a private clergyman,
      It
I have been asked to do, what is the Catholic doctrine on this, or
Iany other matter, save as find it expressed in the formularies of the

Church of England, as by law established. Now the Church of England
has left this question of the Future State, in many points, an open
question ; the more markedly so, because the Puritan influences of the

sixteenth century were pressing her to define and narrow her formularies

about      Those influences, though they failed, thank God, in narrow
a
       ; it.ing her formularies, have actually succeeded till very late years,
                                                                 ;
             I
                     I                                                  I

                                                                                     in in
narrowing her public opinion about this most important question, among
the majority of her members. In the face of that public opinion,

tended by that letter, to try to re-open the whole question to set the

clergy searching for themselves, Scripture, Catholic antiquity, and what

soever of wisest and soundest has been written by our great English
divines to make them think for themselves, and judge for themselves,

instead of asking me or any man, to think and judge for them. For

only so will any wider and sounder belief on this, or any other matter,
be real belief of the heart and reason, and not
                                                    Ia  mere party cry,

repeated parrot-like and unintelligently.

  If" God should ever give me grace and wit to express clearly my

opinion on this matter, shall do so when and how shall choose, after

that full research and deliberation which befit so important and awful
a subject. But look to wiser and more learned men than myself to

              Favourite Tastes and Pursuits.                                                                        399

Ispeak better sense upon it than shall ever speak meanwhile ; certain

that even though they may differ in details, and even some of them err,

they will at least prepare the mind of the Church for the reception of

eternal truth.

   " I regret much to find that the name of my beloved and revered

friend and teacher, the late Mr. Maurice, should have been introduced

into this little controversy, and that expressions have been used con
Icerning his opinions, which
                                must believe would be modified with
Iregret, on a more thorough understanding of his writings.
                                                                                                                    am bound

to say of him that he was always most jealous of Catholic orthodoxy, as

              both in himself and in others that he not only shrank
Ihe conceived
   I

            '

                   it,
                                    a

                                              I
                                                                                              ;
from all Rationalism,' but was seriously angry with me some years

since, when he suspected me (though mistakenly) of leaning to the so-

called Rationalist party, and that from him first learned to value the

Athanasian Creed, as bulwark alike to the theology and the ethics

of Christendom, and to defend its public use, including the so-called
damnatory clauses, in the services of our Church. And what he did

for me have full reason to believe he did for many more.
    " shall trouble you with no rejoinder to any comments which this

letter may"eAvnodke,remain, with deep"rYesopuerctf,aithful servant,
                                                                " C. Kingsley."

   While paying visit in Weybridge at this time, he was asked
to write some answers to the following questions in book kept
for the Autographs of literary men. The answers are charac

teristic, and therefore interesting
                  a                                                                              ?
                       ?                                                                            ?

                                           ?                                                                     a
                                                ?

                                                                :
" Favourite character in history                                   David.
" Favourite kind of literature
" Favourite author                                               Physical science.

"                   Spenser.
"
   Favourite  male and female character in fiction                                               (No answer given.)
   Favourite  artist? Leonardo de Vinci.
" Favourite composer? Beethoven.
" Favourite dramatic performance                                   A pantomime.
"                             ?
   Favourite  public character  ?                    (No answer given.)
"  Favourite  kind of scenery         ??             Wide flats or open sea.
                                                    ?
" Place at home and abroad you most admire                                                       Clovelly.
" Favourite reminiscence
                                July, 1839.

"Favourite occupation? Doing nothing.
" Favourite amusement
                              Sleeping.

400 Charles Kingsley.

" What you dislike most ? Any sort of work.
" Favourite topics of conversation ? Whatever my companion hap

pens to be talking about.
"
"  And those you dislike   most ?  My own thoughts.
   What you like most in   woman
                                   ? Womanliness.
" What you dislike most ? Unwomanliness.
" What you like most in man ? Modesty.
" What you dislike most ? Vanity.
" The character you most dislike? Myself.
" Your ambition ? To die.
" Your ideal ? The One ideal.
" Your hobby? Fancying I know anything.
" The virtue you most admire ? Truth.
" The vice to which you are most lenient ? All except lying.
" Your favourite motto or proverb ? ' Be strong.'
                                       " Charles Kingsley."

   His year closed at Eversley with his three children round
him, his eldest daughter having returned safe from a long visit to
her brother in Colorado, and a perilous journey with him and
some American friends through Mexico, who were "prospecting"
for the carrying on of the narrow gauge railway which her

brother had assisted in building from Denver down to Colorado
Springs, and which the company hoped to take through the
heart of Mexico down to the city itself. The Report made by
his son on the survey had been a great source of pride and joy to

his father, and seemed to open great prospects for his own future,
and for that of civilization, which, however, were finally frus
trated by the Mexican Government. During the last six months
the Rectory had the pleasant addition of a young German tutor,
who was preparing the youngest boy for a public school. Dr.
Karl Schulze had been all through the Franco-Prussian war, and

had come to England to learn the language before settling in his
professorship in Berlin. His society was a great pleasure to Mr.

Kingsley, who in return had the same magnetic attraction for
him, as for all young men who came within his influence. The

following letter shows the impression made on Dr. Schulze
during this short time, by Mr. Kingsley 's " home life " at Chester
and Eversley, which he said had made him " a better man,"

                          A German's Sympathy.                         401

and of which he could not think without tears in his eyes. From
Griinberg, in Silesia, he wrote in January, 1875 :

  I" When the newspaper of to-day announced the death of Mr. Kings-

ley, Canon of Westminster, would not trust my own eyes, and could

not help thinking and hoping that this might be a mistake. But it is

only too true : dear Mr. Kingsley is dead. What a sad news to all
those that knew, loved, and admired him -- to all that read his works ;

and still more so to those who had the honour of knowing him per

sonally ! What a loss to literature, science ; what a great loss to his

innumerable friends ! But what a heavy loss to you and his whole

family, whom he loved as never man loved his wife and father his chil
Idren.
             can fancy how great your grief is ; may God be your consola

      and help   in these mournful days.
      How is it  possible, ask again and
tion

  I I"
                                          again,    that   this  man, whom

saw but two years ago in full strength of mind and body, is now dead ?

How did it come to pass, that this powerful man was broken down in

the   prime   of his age  ?     to walk,  that we,  being  so much  younger,
      How    quickly he   used
   "

could scarcely follow him ; in what a lively way he would tell us about

Ihis travels in the West Indies ! How remember his bright eyes when

he talked to us about all he had seen ; how full of humour he was,

when he told his stories ! And, again, how mild and earnest he was

when he preached his beautiful sermons; those specimens of true

Christian kindness and love. What a genius 1 and all this is now gone.

It is very sad to think of      There was never man whom admired so
      I
                                         it.
                                                            I
much as did Mr. Kingsley."

      VOL. II.                                                      D  1)


              CHAPTER XXIX.

                                                      1873--4.
                                                   Aged 54 -- 5.

Harrow-on-the-Hill --Canonry of Westminster -- His Son's Return -- His
     Mother's Death -- Parting from Chester-- Congratulations-- Sermon
     and Letters on Temperance-- Preaching in Westminster Abbey --
      Voyage to America -- Eastern Cities and Western Plains -- Canada
     -- Niagara --The Prairie-- Salt Lake City-- Yo Semite Valley and
     Big Trees-- San Francisco-- Illness-- Rocky Mountains and Colorado
     Springs-- Last Poem-- Return Home-- Letter from John G. Whittier.

                                                                                                       dd2

"ONE of the kind wishes expressed for me is a long life. Let anything be asked

lor me except that. Let us live hard, work hard, go a good pace, get to our journey's
.... I ....end as soon as possible-- then let the post-horse get his shoulder out of the collar.
have lived long enough to feel, like the old post-horse, very thankful as the
                 ILong life is the last thing that desire. It may be that, as
end draws near.

one grows older, one acquires more and more the painful consciousness of the difference

between what ought to be done and what can be done, and sits down more quietly when

one gets the wrong side of fifty, to let others start up to do for us things we cannot do

for ourselves. But it is the highest pleasure that a man can have who has (to his own

exceeding comfort) turned down the hill at last, to believe that younger spirits will
rise up after him, and catch the lamp of Truth, as in the old lamp-bearing race of

Greece, out of his hand before it expires, and carry it on to the goal with swifter and

more even feet.  "C. K."

                 (Speech at the Lotus Club, New York,

                 February, 1874.)

                        CHAPTER XXIX.

    SOME months of this year were spent at Harrow, where his

youngest son was at school, a change to higher ground having
been recommended for some of his family, to secure which the
Bishop gave him leave of non-residence : but he went regularly
for his Sundays to Eversley, and himself helped to prepare the

candidates for the first confirmation that, thanks to the kindness

of Bishop Wilberforce, had ever been held in his own parish
church. The letters are few this year. He writes to a clergy

man :

                                                        Harrow, March 12, 1873.
    "I found a letter to-day from you, which deeply touched and
Icomforted me when received
                                I         but which know not whether  I
                                                        a It I
answered but think not. Pray forgive me.it,                      came at time when
       I;      '.                                                'a
II  was not only on the move here, but needed comfort from sad cir
                it . I
  cumstances.         . Your letter, say, touched me deeply, and all the

  more, because came from one who had been sailor. But your kind

  words about Hypatia touched me more than those about Westward'

  Ho for the former book was written with my heart's blood, and was
    ;'

      I
  received, as expected, with curses from many of the very Churchmen
         it I
  whom was trying to warn and save. Yet think the book did good.
                                                        I

                                                             in
    know that has not hurt me, save, perhaps, that ecclesiastical career

  to which have never aspired.  I  am trying to make the Church party

  with whom are my deepest sympathies, understand that they wouldif

  conquer they must be themselves --what their formulae rightly under
  stood, are already -- the most liberal and wide-minded men in Christen

  dom. Whether succeed or not,                          the hands, thank God, not of my
               I

                                               is
                                                    in

  weakness and ignorance, but of Christ who rules His Church, and

  happily in His own way and not mine."

     While at Harrow was with mingled feelings that he received
  on Lady Day letter from the Prime Minister.
               a

                       it

406 Charles Kingsley.

   " I have to propose to you, with the sanction of her Majesty, that in

lieu of your canonry at Chester, you should accept the vacant stall in

Westminster Abbey. I am sorry to injure the people of Chester ; but
I must sincerely hope your voice will be heard within the Abbey, and

in your own right."

   There was a strong battle in his heart between the grief of
giving up Chester and the joy of belonging to the great Abbey,

a position which included among many advantages the blessing
he had long craved for, of laying down his pen as a compulsory
source of income, at once and for all, and devoting his remain
ing writing powers and strength to sermons alone. His feelings
are best told in his own letters. The day before he received
Mr. Gladstone's letter, he had been writing to a member of his
scientific class, his friend and coadjutor, Mr. Shepheard of Bridge
Street Row, Chester, on some point connected with his work
there, which ends thus. " Give my love -- that is the broadest

and honestest word --to all the dear Chester folk, men, women,
and children, and say that I long for May I, to be back again

among them." But on the 27th he wrote in lower spirits :

   "A thousand thanks for the MSS., which have been invaluable to me.

The programme of your Society for the year makes me at once proud

and envious. For now I have to tell you that I have just accepted the

vacant stall at Westminster, and shall, in a week or two, be Canon of

Chester no more. Of course, I had to take it for my children's sake.
IHad I been an old bachelor, would never have left Chester. Mean
Iwhile had sooner be Canon of Westminster than either dean or bishop.
But I look back longingly to Chester. Shall we ever go up Hope

Mountain, or the Halkin together again, with all those dear, courteous,
Isensible people ?

   " Give them all
        My eyes   fill with tears when            think of
                       must find some           means, by the
        my love.  I                                                              papers  or
                                 I

                                                                            it.
otherwise, of telling them all at once what owe to their goodness of

heart.            " Ever yours,

                                                C. Kingsley."

   His eldest son, to his father's great joy, had just returned from
  railway survey in Mexico for holiday and his aged mother,

now in her 86th year, and so long the inmate of his home, just
a                 a

                                             ;

                            Chester Mourning.                                              407

lived to know of, and rejoice in, her son's appointment, and to
see her grandson once more before her death on the 16th of
April.

   Letters of mourning and congratulation poured in from
Chester. Canon Blomfield, the first canon who welcomed him

there in 1869, writes :

" Of course one might expect that such an event would occur, and before

very long. It was quite clear that you ought to be lifted up to a higher
degree in the scale of ecclesiastical preferment, and to find a larger

sphere for your powers. But yet, when the time comes to lose you from

Chester, it comes as a blow on one's feelings. I don't know how the

Chester people will get over    I it.  They will be like the schools of the

prophets when Elijah was taken from them. We shall no less miss you

in the cathedral,  and in the Chapter, and in the  tmoarteteprlaceespyeocuially"           of  the
King's School.
                   And then whom shall we have                                             ?

    Such words from       : aaman so much his      senior, and whom he so                    I' .
                               strong testimony,   and as Canon Blom                                    .
deeply respected, are                                                                                       .
field generously writes

" A sincere one, to man, whom, to know, was to love and to reverence
                       a

as one who indefatigably employed his great powers in the good of his

fellow men and for the glory of God."
   "
Itof thewill be pleasant,"  sseanyisor,Ca"naomnonHgildthyeardre, garentosthfeerlt  valued  member
        Chapter, also his                                                          by the  Chapter,

to remember what we had.               say we, because think each member
                                       a
of the Chapter will say and think the same of you in all your bearings
                                          I
to us. The whole of Chester mourns."

   One of the oldest residents in Chester, highly cultivated lady
who had joined his scientific class two years before, speaks of

'  " The distress of the old city,' and how terribly she feels her own
selfish sorrow. You have brought together people,' she adds, in so
          a
                   '
marvellous manner, and awakened tastes and sympathies, that trust

will out-live you, though much fear we are too feeble yet to walk
                            I

                   almost wished, when the news first came, that we had
....alone I

never known you all.'
   " You
members   would     have been both       glad and sorry,"  "  writes               one of the
          of his   Scientific Society  to Mrs. Kingsley,         you               had been at
                                                              if

the cathedral last night, and could have seen the sorrowful little groups

408 Charles Kingsley,

all discussing the news that we had heard before, but which I, for one,

had steadfastly refused to believe, till the dear Canon's own letter yester

day took away our last little hope. ' What will become of the Natural

Science Society ? Who will keep up our interest in it ? What shall we
Ido now, just as we wanted so much help with the Museum ? '
                                                                                      heard

one group of people saying, ' Look what he has done for us socially ?

Who will ever be to us what he has been in that respect ? said others.
Well, we have had the honour of his presence among us -- no one can
take that from us -- let us try and remember that.' The Bishop says that

....the Canon's removal is the greatest blow that the diocese could possibly

receive."

   The same note is struck in letters full of love and loyalty,
which would fill a small volume, from men and women of all

ranks.

   To one who had been with him in all his struggles upward,
from the earnest, honest, but unknown curate life, through years
of distrust, suspicion, and reproach from men of all parties in the
church, it seemed but a just recognition of his character and

work to hear the same tone taken by churchmen, from the
Primate downwards.

  "I   oonugAhtp, rmil y9,de"artoMhr.avKeinwgrsitlteeyn,"   writes   the  Archbishop  of Canter
                                                           before   now   to welcome
bury,                                                                                 you to the
....great Abbey, which I do very heartily.
                                                           It is a great sphere for a man
who, like you, knows how to use it."

While from his own diocese Bishop Wilberforce wrote :

   "Mv DEAR KINGSLEY,

          I" have just seen an authoritative statement of your appoint
ment to the Canonry at Westminster, and I must tell you the pleasure

that it gives me. It is so just an acknowledgment of your merits : it

gives so much better a pedestal from which you may enlighten many, that

I rejoice unfeignedly at it ; and then it is a great personal pleasure to
I Ime. am proud to have you in my old Collegiate Church ; and hope

it may favour more of that personal intercourse between us which has

Ibeen so much increased since came to this diocese (Winchester), and

Iwhich has  given  me   such great pleasure.
                         am, my dear Kingsley,
      "              "

       Yours most sincerely, and let me add                         affectionately,

                                                                          "S. WINTON."

           The Dean's Testimony to the Canon.                         409

   The new Canon of Westminster little thought when he read
this letter, that his first sermon in the Abbey after his installa
tion would be one among many public lamentations for the
sudden death of his diocesan.

   The page of his Chester life fitly closes with a letter from
Dean Howson, whose never-failing kindness and friendship he

valued so truly.

                          FROM THE DEAN OF CHESTER.

   " I have been asked to write a brief notice of that part of Charles

Kingsley's life which was spent in close connection with the city and

cathedral of Chester ; and it is a request --considering from whom it

Icomes -- concerning which feel, not only that I cannot refuse but
                                                  it
                                                                             it,
that must be true pleasure to me to act upon         to the best of my
   it

      I
                       a
           should be sorry, indeed, this task had been assigned to
power.                                     if

any one else for my own relations with him here were of the happiest
        I
               ;
                        a
kind, and have lively sense of the good he has left behind, as the

result of three short official residences in Chester, and few occasional
                                                       a
visits to the place.                                            a  personal

   " Since the remarks in this paper are necessarily of

character, and since they must relate particularly to the religious side of

the subject, seems to me natural to begin with the first meeting which,

so far as remember, ever had with Canon Kingsley. This took
   I                      it
place at Cambridge.I             must confess that at that time had a strong
                            It                       I
             it
                              III
prejudice against him. had read Alton Locke,' on its first appearance,a
                                           I'
and had thought            very unjust to the University of which both he and
   were members.              seemed to me quite out of harmony with my re
I

collections of place, from which was conscious of having received

the utmost benefit.        I  must say here, in passing, that the passages to

which refer have been so modified by notes in the last edition, that

warm commendation has taken the place of blame and am not sure
that the pendulum of his strong feeling did not, on this last occasion,
                                                  ;

                                                       I

                                                                a
swing too far in its new direction. This, however, belongs to subsequent
period. At the time to which refer the book remained unchanged.
                                   I it I
Besides the impression which made upon me, had acquired general
                                               I                   a

notion of Mr. Kingsley's tone of mind, through conversation and through

casual reading and the notion amounted to this; that regarded him as
               :                                     I

                   a
the advocate of self-confident, self-asserting Christianity, whereas the

view had been led to take of the religion which has been revealed to us,
   I

and which  is  to save us here and hereafter, was extremely different.

Under these circumstances                happened to be appointed Hulsean

4io Charles Kingsley.

ILecturer at Cambridge, he being then Professor of Modern History.

had taken for my subject the Character of St. Paul ; and being, in one

of my sermons, about to preach on the Apostle's ' tenderness and

sympathy,' which, to my mind, involved a sense of utter weakness, and

Ia continual self-distrust, I was very uncomfortable. I thought that

should be understood to be preaching against Professor Kingsley. Such

a course would have been, to the utmost degree, foreign to my feelings ;

Iand yet was bound to do justice to my convictions concerning, not

only St. Paul's character, but Christianity itself, in this respect. My

surprise, therefore, was great, when, at the close of the service, and after

the dispersion of the congregation, I met Canon Kingsley at the south

door of St. Mary's. He was waiting for me there, that he might express

his sympathy with what I had said in the sermon ; and this he did, not
Imerely with extraordinary cordiality, but literally, may say, with tears of
approval. It was a moment of my life which made a deep impression
Ion me. It not only caused me to be conscious that had made a

mistake, but it formed in me a warm personal regard for Mr. Kingsley,

Ithough, at that time, had no expectation of any frequent opportunities

of "seFeoinrgshomime. time afterwards our meetings were only casual, and our
acquaintance was very slight ; and I must confess that when a letter

came to me from him to tell me that he had been appointed a Canon of

Chester, in succession to Dr. Moberly, who had been made Bishop of
ISalisbury, was full of fear. There seemed to me an incongruity in the
Iappointment.
               fancied that there was no natural affinity between the
author of ' Alton Locke' and cathedral life. Here again I soon found
I Ithat had made a mistake.
                             might, indeed, have reflected that

cathedral institutions, even under their present restricted conditions,

have great capacity for varied adaptation, and that I myself had been
diligent in giving expression to an opinion of this kind. And here I

may remark that the cathedral stall in question has had a very curious

recent history, illustrative of the correctness of this remark. It has been
held in succession by three men of eminence --Dr. M'Neile, Dr. Moberly,
and Mr. Kingsley --differing from one another as much as possible in

habits of thought, but in each case with beneficial results to the city of

Chester, though in very various ways.
   " Now, to describe particularly Canon Kingsley's work and usefulness

Iin Chester, must note first the extraordinary enthusiasm with which he

entered upon his connection with the place. Chester has certainly a

very great charm for an imaginative mind, and for any one who is fond

of the picturesque aspects of history ; and upon him it told immediately,

giving him from the first a greater delight than he would have felt else-

                 Happy Relations of Dean and Canon.                            41 1

where in the work which he found here to do. And with this enthu
siasm I must note his old-fashioned courtesy, loyalty, and respect for
official position. I suppose his political and social views would have

been termed      ' liberal        '  but  his  liberalism  was not at all of the con
Iventional type.                ;

                         should have described him as a mixture of the

Radical and the Tory, the aspect of character which is denoted by the

latter word being, to my apprehension, quite as conspicuous as that

which is denoted by the former. Certainly he was very different from
Ithe traditional Whig.
                                     have spoken of his respect for official position.
I believe that to have caused inconvenience to me, to have done what
I did not like, to have impeded me in my efforts to be useful, would

have given him the utmost pain. That he was far my superior in ability
Iand knowledge made no difference.
                                               happened to be Dean, and he

happened to be Canon ; and this was quite enough. From the first

letter which he wrote to me announcing his appointment, till the time

when, to our great regret, he left Chester for Westminster, he showed to
I Ime the utmost consideration.
                 ; but I note                  record this, that may express my

g. ra"titTuhdee  opportunities  it also as a mark of character    and  employed  at
                                 of usefulness, which he found

Chester, were not altogether limited to the city. He had a beneficial

relation to the diocese at large, the mention of which ought not to be
entirely omitted. Mere popularity in a canon of a cathedral, who is

eminent for literary and scientific attainments, and who is known to take

a large and kindly interest in his fellow-men, is no slight benefit to a

diocese. But Canon Kingsley did useful work in Chester and South

Lancashire by preaching at choral festivals, taking part in the pro
ceedings of scientific societies, promoting the restoration of the cathe

dral to which he belonged, and the like. Under the present system,
indeed, of capitular institutions, a cathedral cannot do as much as might

be desired for the diocese in which it is placed ; but such general work

as was done here by Canon Kingsley, and more especially, the spirit in

which he did aided to diffuse through the neighbourhood the idea that
a
               it,
cathedral institutions have inherently capacity for diocesan           expansion.
                                                                         desirable
   " In the cathedral city itself, with which he connected,
                                               a                       it
                                                              is           is

that canon should do some definite thing, and one which not likely     is
to be spoilt and broken by intermittent residence. This one thing,

suitable to his own tastes, and easily within the range of his powers,

Canon Kingsley perceived at Chester as desirable to be done and he
                                                                           ;

definitely did   a       with all his heart and with complete success. By
                     it
establishing           Society for the study of Natural Science, he brought to

view much latent knowledge, promoted co-operation among those who

had been isolated, encouraged those who knew little to learn more, and

412 Charles Kingsley.

those who knew nothing to learn something. He promoted these studies

by excellent lectures ; and his personal help, readily rendered on every

side, was invaluable. For the making of such assistance effectual, he
had many high qualities -- a quiet and kindly sympathy, a genial humour

combined with intense earnestness, and a disdain of the silly social

distinctions which separate those who ought to be acquainted with one

another. He had a quick eye for vegetable forms, and a large ex

perience in judging of geological facts. Others may have known more
than he did of many sciences ; but he could teach what he knew ; and
he had another most important faculty -- he could make others work.

   "All this enthusiasm for Natural Science -- to revert to a point which

was touched before -- might at first sight seem out of harmony with the
grave and formal traditions of cathedral life. Even if it were so, there

could be no objection to this, but rather a great advantage in                            The
                                                               ;
                                                                                  ;
                                                                                         it.

                                                                                                      a
clerical office ought to touch human interests on every side an ancient

institution ought to diffuse light into fresh places the meeting of the

old and the new never occurs more properly or more usefully, than in

cathedral. But precedents for what has happened to us, to our great
benefit, in Chester, are supplied by the connection of Buckland and
Sedgwick and Mozeley with Westminster and Norwich and Bristol. In
our own cathedral, too, there seems special invitation to associations of
this kind. For not only do our Gurgoyles and Corbels betray the general
                in
                             a
mediaeval interest felt of old animal and vegetable forms, but carvings
in wood and stone, even in the interior of the church, show that here

there was lavish enjoyment of such observation and imitation. As an
         a

illustration of what mean at this moment, may say that in this building
there are monkeys in the midst of the crockets of some canopies, and

that Canon Kingsley, the midst of Divine Service, was once observed
to start, when his eye caught the sight of this strange creature in an
                I

                       in

                                            I

une"xBpeuctted  place.             to        the  religious    and most serious           side of
         in it   time now to turn
            is
his life in Chester and this must say, he was most careful and con
                ;

                            I

                                         in
scientious in attendance at the cathedral services, most reverential                      in

public worship, most diligent preaching. There                                            remarkable
                                                               is
passage         the statutes of this cathedral, which charges the Dean and is
Canons -- and even pleads with them by the mercies of God,' that
                is                                                              a; a a a
inasmuch as the Divine Word  is              light to our feet and lamp to our

                                     '
                                     ;a

                                                            '
path,' they be diligent in preaching and though the number of sermons

prescribed in the year so small, as almost, after such preamble, to

provoke smile, yet the spirit of the injunction excellent and in thisa
spirit Canon Kingsley acted. He remembered here as preacher of
                                             is

great power; he had always large congregations, and they tended, towards

Chester Races.  413

the end of his time, to increase rather than to diminish. Through his
preaching -- in consequence of his known interest in science, and his
large sympathy with humanity -- religious truth found its way to many
hearts, which otherwise might have been nearly closed to such in
fluence. As to the sermons themselves, several of those which have
been published in his volume of ' Westminster Abbey Sermons ' were first

preached here at Chester. I will make mention of two, the delivery of
Iwhich remember very distinctly. One was preached from the 104th

Psalm, and dealt with the subject of the physical suffering of the animals
around us, caused by their preying on one another. ' The lions roaring
after their prey do seek their meat from God.' He felt keenly all the
 mystery of pain in those creatures that have not deserved it by sin ; and

 yet he had an undisturbed belief that God is good. The other was a
 sermon on Prayer : ' Thou that hearest prayer, unto Thee shall all flesh
 come.' Some had doubted, in consequence of certain discussions then
 recent, whether the preacher did not so limit the use of prayer, as to
 cause it really to be no comfort to us at all. But those who heard this

 sermon found their doubts on this subject removed. Speaking from

 my own point of view, I by no means say that I always agreed with

 Canon Kingsley's mode of presenting Divine Truth, and of arranging

 Iits proportions ; but there was far less divergence between us than had

 expected to find ; and he exhibited, with more force than any one else

 that I have ever heard, certain aspects of Christianity, which to both of

 us seemed of the utmost importance.
     " In connection with his efforts for the moral and religious benefit of

 the people of this place I must mention one subject, which to me is of

 overwhelming interest, and which no reasonable man can say is unim

 portant. I refer to the Chester Races, which, to speak in plain English

  and in simple words, hinder here everything that is good, and promote
 everything that is bad. It is not my business, in this place, to say

 Imuch of my own strong convictions upon this subject ; but may record,

  with grateful satisfaction, the harmony which subsisted regarding it
  between Canon Kingsley and myself. He was well acquainted with the

  whole subject of modern Horse-racing ; and he deserved to be listened

  to when he maintained that, instead of being a manly sport, it had

  become a selfish and fraudulent trade. Among the efforts which were

  made during his connection with Chester, to give a right direction to
  public opinion in this matter, and to diminish the mischief caused here

  by the system, some small pamphlets were published, exhibiting its evils

  on various sides. Canon Kingsley wrote one on ' Betting.' It was very
 short, but it was admirable ; and I think an account of his life would be

  incomplete without a notice of this small publication.

414 Charles Kingsley.

" Before I conclude, I must refer to the good done here by Canon

Kingsley, through remarks made in the course of casual conversations.

Great effects are produced in this way by certain men ; and he produced

them without being aware of      is ' it.  will simply give two slight illustra

tions, each having reference to Science. On being asked how heI

reconciled Science and Christianity, he said, By believing that God
                                               I'

                                                                          is
                                                                                           ;
                                                                                     if a is
love.' On another occasion, when the slow and steady variation of

Mollusca, traced from stratum to stratum, was pointed out by

friend, with the remark that Darwin's explanation would hardly be con

sidered orthodox, he observed, My friend, God's orthodoxy truth

Darwin speaks the truth, he orthodox.'         may remark here that

Kingsley's bent was, in his own opinion, more towards Science than

towards Literature. He once said something to this effect, that he would

rather be low on the roll of Science than high on that of Literature.
" This
      a           poor and inadequate account of                passage in Canon
         is                                    a
Kingsley's life, which was productive of great good in one particularaa

city and neighbourhood, and which has left among us here, in one sense

indeed, very sorrowful, but, in higher sense, very cheerful, recollec
                                 a

tion. Various facts and incidents, for which room cannot here be found,

might have been mentioned, as, for instance, his warm and practical

interest in the development of our Cathedral School, which, under its

new conditions, has already entered upon successful career or, again,
                                  a                             a
                                                in a                     ;
the general lectures which he delivered in Chester to audiences fara

larger than can commonly be assembled here for such purpose. But

my aim has been simply to give truthful impression of the life, and

character, and work, which we observed, and from which we have

                     must be added,            conclusion, that three per
derived advantage.   It

                             is
manent memorials of Charles Kingsley have been established in Chester.

On his scientific side he commemorated by prize founded in con

nection with the Natural History Society which he established on his
                                                                            in is :
literary side by marble bust, executed by Mr. Belt, which to be
                  a

inplaced the Cathedral Chapter-house while the religious aspect of his
                                           a;
life and work are suitably recorded, in the midst of the beautiful

tabernacle-work of the cathedral, by restored stall which bears his

name. His best and most faithful memory, however, remains                            the

seeds of good which he has sown in the minds and hearts of those over

whom his influence was exerted."

   In July he went to Chester to say good-bye, and to join the

Nave Choir and Scientific Society in an excursion into Wales.
   His kind friends insisted on his still keeping the office of Pre

sident to the Scientific Society. Professor Hughes his distin
                                                                is

Canon Kingsley's Mode of Work.  415

guished successor, who closed his Inaugural Lecture in 1875
with these words :

   " Let us then try to carry on our Society in the spirit that pervaded
all the work of him to whom this Society owes everything --whose loss,

when last I came among you we had so recently to deplore ; a spirit of

fearless and manly grappling with difficulties --a spirit of vigorous,
prompt, and rigorous carrying out of whatever was taken in hand --a
spirit of generous and hearty co-operation with fellow-workers --a wide
range of interests --not meaning by this, scattered desultory thought --
but thought, like Napoleon's, ready to be concentrated at once where

the battle must be fought."

   Some of Canon Kingsley's friends in their congratulations
expressed the hope that this distinction might be a stepping

stone to a higher post, but he had no ambition beyond a stall at
Westminster and the Rectory of Eversley.

   " A thousand thanks," he says to Sir Charles Bunbury, " for your con
gratulations, and Lady Bunbury's. Let me assure you that your view of

my preferment, as to its giving me freer access to scientific society,
libraries, &c., is just mine, with this addition, that it will give me freer

access to you. So far from looking on it as an earnest of future prefer

I Iment, acquiesce in it as all want, and more than I deserve. What

better fate than to spend one's old age under the shadow of that Abbey,
and close to the highest mental activities of England, with leisure to

Icultivate myself, and write, if will, deliberately, but not for daily bread?

A deanery or bishopric would never give me that power. It cannot be
better than it is ; and most thankful to God am I for His goodness."

TO THE REV. P. L. H. WOOD.

" MY DEAR PETER,  HARROW, April J, 1873.

I" got your letter here this morning, and it touched me deeply.

There are no friendships like old friendships, and ' there is a friend, says
Solomon, that sticketh closer than a brother.' Yes, I had heard of your

great loss. . . . And who can feel for you more deeply than I? But
you, thank God, are blest in your children, and so am I in all mine ; and

Ithough my beloved one is still with me, and all in all to me, yet have

my sorrows, such as God grant you may never taste ; but it is a comfort

to me to know that an old friend like you still thinks of me, and rejoices

416 Charles Kingsley.

in my real good fortune  We have twelve months' leave

of absence, and are now ' dame-ing ' our youngest boy at Harrow. God

bless you ; shall we not kill a trout together again ? My mother, who is

86, is living, or rather, alas ! (lying with us. She often speaks of you."

   To him in his great humility the outburst of sympathy on all
sides was only a surprise : while to those who knew the history
of his life it was a triumph, which wiped out many bitter passages

in the past, but a triumph tempered by the fear that it came
too late to save the overstrained brain. The candle had already
burnt down, and though light and flame still flared up, it flared
as from the socket. His eldest son returning at the moment to
share in the joy of his father's elevation, was so much struck with
his broken appearance, that he urged upon him rest and change
and a sea voyage before he entered on a position of fresh re
sponsibility. This, however, he refused, though it was strongly

recommended by medical advisers, and decided not to go to
America till the following year, when the repairs of both homes --
at Eversley and the house in the Cloisters, would oblige him to

take a holiday.
   He preached in the Abbey for the Temperance Society* in

April, for which at once he put himself under the orders of his
Dean. To it this letter refers.

"My dear Dean,           Eversley, April 23, 1873.

          I" Many thanks for your letter and its instructions, which will

follow. Kindly answer me this -- to me important -- question.
   " Have you any objection to my speaking, in my sermon, in favour of

opening the British Museum, &c, to the public on Sunday after
noons ? Of course I shall do so without saying anything violent or
               IBut have held very strong and deliberate opinions
uncharitable.

about this matter for many years; and think that the opening of

these Public Institutions would not only stop a great deal of Sunday,
and therefore of Monday drunkenness, but would -- if advocated by the
clergy --enable the Church to take the wind out of the sails of the well-
meaning, but ignorant, Sunday League, and prove herself -- what she
can prove herself in other matters if she has courage --the most liberal

   * This sermon was the foundation of a valuable article  in"  "Good Words," called
the "Tree of Knowledge," since published in the volume,
                                                                Health and Education."

                    Heavy Responsibility.      417

religious body in these isles. But if you, with your superior savoir-faire,
think it better for me to be silent as yet, I obey.

   On the same subject he writes to J. Barfleet, Esq., J.P., of

Worcester :

I" am not a ' total abstainer ; ' but that does not prevent my wishing

the temperance movement all success, and wishing success, also, to your
Iendeavour to make people eat oatmeal.
                                        am sorry to say that they will

not touch it in our southern counties ; and that their food is consequently

deficient in phosphates and they in bone, in comparison with the

northern oatmeal eating folk, who are still a big-boned race.

  I" have told them this ; and shall again. For growing children oat

meal is invaluable. Meanwhile, we must not forget to supply the sys

tem with hydro-carbons (especially if we lessen the quantity of beer) in

order to keep the fire alight, or we get a consumptive tendency, as in

many oatmeal-eating Scotch, who, with tall and noble frames, die of con

sumption, because they will not eat bacon, or any fats in sufficient

quantity. Hence not only weakness of tissue, but want of vital heat, and

consequent craving for whisky. The adjustment of the elements of food

in their right proportions is almost the most important element in ensuring

temperance. . . ."

   His first residence at Westminster was in September, during
a time in which London was considered " empty." He pre

ferred these quiet months, as the congregations were composed

chiefly of men of the middle and lower class, whose ear he

wished to gain, and preached during September and November

to vast congregations twice a day.         Speaking of this, he

says :--

  I" got through the sermons without any bodily fatigue, and certainly

there were large congregations worth speaking to. But the responsibility

I Iis too great for me, and am glad have only two months' residence,

and that in a quiet time. What must it be in May and June ? "

  To his wife, who was ill in the country, he writes from the

Cloisters in November :

I I" ought to have written yesterday, but  was very busy with two
Isermons and early communion. The sermons, am assured, were heard,

VOL. n.                                    EK

4i 8 Charles Kingsley.

If Iand R. says, the attention of the congregation was great.           find I

can get the ear of that congregation, it will be a work to live for, for the

rest of my life. What more can a man want ? And as for this house,

the feeling of room in it is most pleasant, and the beauty outside under

....this delicious gleamy weather, quite lifts my poor heart up a-while.
         II regret much that am leaving just as I seemed to be getting
hold of people. But I do not think I could have stood the intense

excitement of the Sundays much longer."

   His last sermon in 1873 in the Abbey was on "The Beatific

Vision," and those who heard him were impressed by the deep
solemnity of his words and manner as he, in prospect of leaving

Europe bade farewell to a congregation which he had already
begun to love. After noble words on God's character, and
intense prayer that He, the Glorious, the Just, the Powerful, the

Merciful, The One Good, would teach him and his hearers His

Name, and "gladden their souls by the beatific vision of Himself
till they loved Him, worshipped Him, obeyed Him for His own
sake, not for anything which they might obtain from Him, but

solely because He is The perfectly Good who inhabits eternity,

and yet dwells with him that is of a contrite spirit, and revives
the heart of the feeble ; and after an ascription of adoration for
the glory of His justice, and the glory of His love," he closes :

   " And now, friends -- almost all friends unknown --and, alas ! never
to be known by me --you who are to me as people floating down a
river; while I, the preacher, stand upon the bank, and call, in hope

that some of you may catch some word of mine, ere the great stream
shall bear you out of sight -- oh ! catch, at least, catch this one word--
the last which I shall speak here for many months, and which sums up
     which I
all            have  been   trying   to say  to you of late.
     " Fix in  your  minds  -- or   rather   ask God to fix
                                                              in  your  minds --this

one idea of an absolutely good God ; good with all forms of goodness
which you respect and love in man ; good as you, and I, and every

honest man, understand the plain word good. Slowly you will acquire

that grand and all-illuminating idea; slowly and most imperfectly at

best : for who is mortal man that he should conceive and comprehend
the goodness of the infinitely good God ? But see, then, whether, in

the light of that one idea, all the old-fashioned Christian ideas about the

relation of God to man; whether a Providence, Prayer, Inspiration,

yuventis Mundi.  419

Revelation, the Incarnation, the Passion, and the final triumph of the

ISon of God -- whether all these, say, do not seem to you, not merely

beautiful, not merely probable, but rational, and logical, and necessary,

moral consequences from the one idea of an Absolute and Eternal

Goodness, the Living Parent of the universe. And so I leave you to

the grace of God."*

   In the autumn he wrote three articles on Health, Physical

Education, and Sanitary subjects, to which and to his sermons
he proposed to devote the remaining years of his life, and made
preparations for his American journey ; and in December he
returned to Eversley with his family, and remained till the end
of January, when he and his eldest daughter sailed for New
York, taking with him a few lectures, to meet his expenses.

   This Poem, written, but not corrected for the press, is the only

one he composed this year :

                                       JUVENTUS MUNDI.

                          List a tale a fairy sent us
                              Fresh from dear Mundi Juventus.
                              When Love and all the world was young,
                          And birds conversed as well as sung ;
                          And men still faced this fair creation
                          With humour, heart, imagination.
                          Who come hither from Morocco
                              Every spring on the Sirocco ?
                        In russet she, and he in yellow,
                              Singing ever clear and mellow,
                              Sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet you, sweet you.
                           Did he beat you ? Did he beat you ?
                              Phyllopneustes wise folk call them,
                              But don't know what did befal them,
                           Why they ever thought of coming
                        All that way to hear gnats humming,
                           Why they built not nests but houses,
                          Like the bumble-bees and mousies.
                           Nor how little birds got wings,
                           Nor what 'tis the small cock sings --
                           How should they know -- stupid fogies ?
                              They daren't even believe in bogies.
                              Once they were a girl and boy,
                              Each the other's life and joy.
                           He a Daphnis, she a Chloe,
                              Only they were brown, not snowy,

  * This sermon, with others, form the volume of " Westminster Sermons," which

appeared in 1874, published by Messrs. Macmillan.

420             Charles Kings ley.

     Till an Arab found them playing
     Far beyond the Atlas straying,

     Tied the helpless things together,
     Drove them in the burning weather,

     In his slave-gang many a league,
     Till they dropped from wild fatigue.
     Up he caught his whip of hide,

     Lashed each soft brown back and side

     Till their little brains were burst
     With sharp pain, and heat, and thirst.

     Over her the poor boy lay,
     Tried to keep the blows away,

     Till they stiffened into clay,
     And the ruffian rode away :

     Swooping o'er the tainted ground,
     Carrion vultures gathered round,
     And the gaunt hyenas ran

     Tracking up the caravan.
     But -- Ah, wonder ! that was gone
     Which they meant to feast upon.
     And, for each, a yellow wren,

     One a cock, and one a hen,
     Sweetly warbling, flitted forth
     O'er the desert toward the north.
     But a shade of bygone sorrow,
     Like a dream upon the morrow,
     Round his tiny brainlet clinging,
     Sets the wee cock ever singing
     Sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet you, sweet you,
     Did he beat you ? Did he beat you ?
     Vultures croaked, and hopped and flopped,
      But their evening meal was stopped.
     And the gaunt hyenas foul,
      Sat down on their tails to howl.

      Northward towards the cool spring weather,
     Those two wrens fled on together,
      On to England o'er the sea,
      Where all folks alike are free.

      There they built a cabin, wattled
      Like the huts where first they prattled,
      Hatched and fed, as safe as may be,

      Many a tiny feathered baby.
      But in autumn south they go
      Past the Straits, and Atlas' snow,

      Over desert, over mountain,
      To the palms beside the fountain,
      Where, when once they lived before, he
      Told her first the old, old story.
      What do the doves say? Curuck-Coo,

      IYou love me and love you.

           On the Atlantic Once More.                                    421

                                                                     Eversley, January 7, 1874.
   " . . . . We sail on the 29th," he writes to Professor Newton ; " we

go in April or May (when the prairie is in flower) to San Francisco, and
then back to Denver and the Rocky Mountains south of Denver, and

...the"nTsetlrlaiguhst
           home.  can  do  anything  for you.    I think you have

           if we

ordered a pair of Asahta sheep-horns already, we will do our best, . . .

and have friends who will do their best for you after we are gone."

           ON BOARD THE " OCEANIC," OFF WATERFORD, Janary 30, 1874.
" The blessed Psalms this morning ! Weather bright and warm, like

June. No wind or motion, and the Irish coast most lovely. This is

the most luxurious ship I ever was in, and one has more room than one

wants. Delicious warm baths and every luxury. Certainly, all as yet

has been most prosperous. The good dean and M. came from Chester

to see us  off. The captain, a very handsome,  agreeable,                Norfolk man.
           Queenstown the forenoon of Jan.     30. Had                   three days of
   " Left

charming warm April, or rather June, weather. . . . Off Cape Clear

ship rolled a good deal from the calm. The 3rd and 4th were two short
runs, as we were retarded by an unexpected branch of the Gulf-stream,

a knot an hour against us, water 53°, which lost us fifty miles in two

days. 5th. A good run to the banks of Newfoundland, where the water
shoals from 2,000 fathoms to 30-50, the sea becomes green instead of

blue, and the water falls from 53° to 32° in a day. Here we met very
cold north-west gales. We had had snow showers on the Gulf-stream, and

wind veering and backing from N.W. to S.W. But on the banks the

gale set in steadily from N.W. ; and has blown till now (Feb. 7, 2 p.m.)
for more than seventy-two hours at an average of eight, all the cold air

from the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Newfoundland, the Carriboo barrens,

and up to Hudson's Bay, rumpling itself into the Atlantic in a steady

stream, as a Mistral does into the Mediterranean, or a Norte into the

Gulf of Mexico. We are now past the banks ; the water has risen to

40°: but the air is 29°, three degrees of frost, and the whole bow and

forerigging coated with masses of white ice, very beautiful. The captain

/thinks we have escaped some great cyclone jammed up between us and

Cape Race, which can't get out into the Atlantic : think this is rushing

down to supply the heated air carried up by some cyclone far south,

which will come to the Bay of Biscay, and France, and England as a

S.W. gale. Please try and remember if you had a gale about now. At

all events, no one recollects such a persistent N.W. gale. R. is quite

well, and on the deck whenever one can stand on                          Let Grenville
                           if

                                                                    it.
work out the places on the map, you have time.

422 Charles Kingsley.

"8th, 12 p.m. Run 241 miles. Gale still continuing, but sea less, so

that screw acts better. Temperature just freezing. Just passed Sable
Island, about seventy miles W. Many Mother Cary's chickens have

re-appeared to-day --all flying against the gale -- towards America. Can

walk tolerably on the deck to-day.

   " 2 p.m., air 31°. Water suddenly risen to 53°, and the sea covered with
flying hot steam (called the Barber,) which is melting the ice on the
rigging and forecastle, now six inches thick and more. A shoot of the

Gulf-stream again more northerly than the Admiralty charts.
"
           Bad night again ;  short, heavy sea, ship    violent ; coal bad and
   Qth.

retarding us. Calm by midday, and fine, and walking excellent.

Touched    beginning of Nan tucket    Shoals about   4  p.m.           light --
   " At 6                            called me up   to
           P.M. on the 10th captain                     see Nantucket

first point of the United States ; at noon on the 10th very hard breeze

from N., going 12$, were off the E. point of Long Island, 102 miles

from New York, shall have come in 3,015 miles, the shortest possible

great circle being 3,012. So we have steered very straight, though slow.

Took in pilot at three. Got to Sandy Hook at about nine. Lay all night
off bar, and got to New York at nine a.m. Cold, bright, and calm.

Floe ice in river." .

   Here the notes of the journey are made by his daughter, and

form the connecting thread between his own letters home :

   " We arrived at Sandy Hook late on the 10th Feb., and on
the morning of the nth landed at New York ; and here, before

my father set foot on American soil, he had a foretaste of the

cordial welcome and generous hospitality which he experienced
everywhere, without a single exception, throughout the six
months he spent in the United States and Canada. The moment
the ship warped into her dock a deputation from a literary club
came on board, took possession of us and our baggage, and the

custom-house authorities passed all our trunks without looking
at them. We went out later in the day to stay at Staten Island
with Mr. F. G. Shaw, where we stayed till the 14th, going to
New York on that day for a dinner and reception given in my
father's honour by the Lotus Club."

                                     STATEN ISLAND, February 12.
I" have, thank God, nothing to write but what is pleasant and hope
Iful. We got here yesterday afternoon, and
                                                        am now writing in a

blazing, sunny, south window, in a luxurious little room, in a luxurious

              Staten Island, Boston, Cambridge.                          423

house, redolent of good tobacco and sweet walnut-wood smoke, looking

out on a snow-covered lawn, and trees, which, like the people, are all
IEnglish, with a difference.
                                 have met with none but pleasant, clever

people as yet, afloat or ashore, and Mr. Curtis (Mr. Shaw's son-in-law,
and an old friend of Thackeray's,) a very handsome, cultivated man.
" As for health, this air, as poor Thackeray said of
                                                        It it,         like cham

pagne. Sea-air (there    a is    mighty salt-water river, Papaio, at the bottomis is
                              a                                   it. a
of the garden,) and mountain air combined, days already an hour longer

than in England, and blazing hot sun and blue sky.                       glorious

country, and don't wonder at the people being proud of                   To-day
      ; II
Rose and go into New York by steamer to see various people and

do business and out again before dinner, to meet very gentleman-like
                                 a

clergyman of this place, once rector of San Francisco.     enclose log
                                                        I                a

and chart of the voyage which should interest and teach Grenville, for

whom  it      intended.  I  dine with the Lotus Club on Saturday night,
          is

and then start for Boston with R. to stay with Fields next week."

   " On Monday evening, after a busy day in Boston, we went

out to Salem, fifteen miles by train, and my father was particu
larly struck and interested by the recurrence of the old Fen
names, with which he was familiar from his early childhood, on

that side of the Atlantic, and made me notice, with tears in his
eyes, the difference between the New World and Old World
Lynn, etc., etc. Through the whole of his stay in America the
recurrence of the Old World names of places and people were a

never-failing source of interest and pleasure to him.
    " On the 8th we went out to Cambridge, and spent the next

few days there with some friends, my father going in and out to
Boston, and spending one night at Andover and another at

Georgetown. At Georgetown, the lady with whom he was to

stay being ill, he went to the village inn, and told me that the

great question of hard money v. paper had been quaintly brought
to his notice by the landlord's little child of six or seven, who
sat on his knee playing with his watch chain, and finding among
his seals an old Spanish gold doubloon, cried, See, father, the
gentleman has got cent on his chain never having seen
gold coin before. He took the greatest interest in the Agassiz
Museum at Cambridge, his only regret being that he had come to
America two months too late to make the acquaintance of its
founder. The joyous young life of the university with which he
              1

                               a

                                                                                                  !
                                                                                         '
                                                                                                     '

                                                                                                               a

424 Charles Kingsley.

was surrounded, together with the many distinguished Americans
with whom he made or renewed acquaintance, made these days
exceedingly pleasant to my father, and it was with real regret
that he left Cambridge on the 25th.

   "We broke our journey at Springfield, staying there one night

as the guests of Mr. Samuel Bowles, of the celebrated Springfield
Republican newspaper, and reached New York again, to stay
with our kind friends Professor and Mrs. Botta."

                          Dr. Wharton's, Cambridge, Mass., February 19, 1874.
   " Here is a little haven of rest, where we arrived last night.

Longfellow came to dinner, and we dine with him to-night. Yesterday,

in Boston, dear old Whittier called on me and we had a most loving
and like-minded talk about the other world. He is an old saint. This

morning I have spent chiefly with Asa Gray and his plants, so that we

are in good company.
   " New York was a great rattle, dining, and speechifying, and being

received, and so has Boston been ; and the courtesy, and generosity,

and compliments would really turn any one's head who was not as

disgusted with himself, as I always (thank God,) am. The Westminster
lecture is the only one I have given as yet. Salem was very interesting,

being next to Plymouth, the Pilgrim Fathers' town. People most intel

ligent, gentle, and animated. They gave me a reception supper, with

speeches after, and want us to come again in the summer to their Field

Naturalists' Club. New England   is,     in winter at least, the saddest

                                        ;
country, all brown grass, ice-polished rocks, sticking up through the

copses, cedar scrub, low, swampy shores an iron land which only iron

people could have settled in. The people must have been heroes to

make what they have of      it.  Now, under deep snow,       dreadful. But
                                                      !

                                                       I it
                                                              is
                                                                   is
the summer, they say, semi-tropic, and that has kept them alive. And,is

indeed already, though  it       hard frost under foot, the sun bright, and
                           is

hot, and high, for we are in the latitude of Naples          cannot tell you

a  thousandth part of all I've seen, or of all the kindness we have

received, but this can say, that R. well, and that feel better thanis            I
               ;I                                     I

have felt for years but Mr. Longfellow and others warn me not to let

this over-stimulating climate tempt me to over-work. One feels ready

..."to do anything, and then suddenly very tired.       But            am at rest
                                                             I
now.
                                                                             1,
                                           New York, March                       1874.

   " . We made great friends with Asa Gray and are going to stay with
   .
       .
            .

                 New York and Philadelphia.              425

him when we return. Moreover, dear Colonel John Hay, with his

beautiful wife, has been here, and many more, and here, as at Boston,

we have been seeing all the best people. Mr. Winthrop was most

agreeable, a friend of the Cranworths, Bunburys, Charles Howard, and

all the Whig set in England, and such a fine old gentleman. Nothing

can exceed the courtesy and hospitality everywhere. . . On Thursday

we are off to Philadelphia, then Washington, where we have introduc

tions to the President, etc, and then back here to these kind friends.

IFrom Professor Botta am learning a lot of Italian history and politics,

which is most useful.
    " Here the streets are full of melting snow. We had a huge snow

storm on Wednesday after dreadful cold, and overhead a sky like Italy

or south of France, and a sun who takes care to remind us that we are

...in the latitude of Rome. But it is infinitely healthy, at least to me. R.
looks quite blooming, and I am suddenly quite well.  I never want

medicine or tonic, and very little stimulant. But one cannot do as

much here as at home. All say so and I find it. One can go faster for

awhile but gets exhausted sooner. As for the people they are quite

charming, and I long to see the New Englanders again when the hum

...ming birds and mocking birds get there and the country is less like
Greenland.       I have been assisting Bishop Potter at an ordination.
IThe old man was very cordial, especially when he found
                                                         was of the
respectful and orthodox class. So that is well, but I will not preach, at

least not yet."

   " During our stay among our many friends in New York,
renewing old friendships and making fresh acquaintances, my
father particularly rejoiced at an opportunity of meeting Mr.
William Cullen Bryant, whose poetry had been his delight from
his boyhood. From New York we went to Philadelphia, staying
there for two nights with Mr. C. J. Petersen. On the evening of
our arrival my father lectured in the Opera House to an audience
of nearly 4,000--every seat being occupied, and the aisles and
steps crowded with people, who stood the whole time. Here, as
in New York and Boston, we were overwhelmed with kindness,

our hosts and other friends gathering together at their houses

everyone in the city whose acquaintance was most likely to give

us pleasure.
   " On the 7th of March we went on to Washington, where

President Grant welcomed my father most cordially. The

426 Charles Kings ley.

10th we spent among the scientific men of Washington, Dr.

Henry at the Smithsonian Institute, and Professor Hayden at
the office of the Geological Survey of the Territories. In the

latter my father took a keen interest, and was struck by the ad

mirable work displayed in the geological maps and photographs

made by the surveying parties in the field in Colorado, Nebraska,

Utah,and Wyoming during the summer months, which are worked

up at Washington during the winter.
   " We also went to the Senate House though rather weary with

continual sightseeing : but my father often said afterwards that he
would not have missed that visit for any consideration, for in the
Senate he was introduced to Mr. Charles Sumner. They had

corresponded a good deal in former years, though personally

unacquainted, and for some time the correspondence had ceased

owing to the different views they had held on some American

matters. But the moment the two came face to face all mistrust

vanished, as each instinctively recognized the manly honesty of

the other, and they had a long and friendly talk. An hour after,

Mr. Sumner was seized with an attack of Angina Pectoris, from

which he had long suffered, and when we reached New York the

next day we were shocked to find that the news of his death had

preceded us by telegraph."                                                                                    «

                                                                                   Washington, March 8.

I"           .  .  .   We are received        with  open arms, and heaped with hospitality.
          .
           hardly like to talk of and of our reception by Mr. Childs and all
                                              it,
                                                           is

                                                                               is
Philadelphia. We went just now and left our introductions at the White

House, and in walked dear Rothery, who                                             here settling the Interna

tional Fisheries question, and he going to take me round to make all
our calls, on Fish, and Dr. Henry, &c, and then to dine, and go with

him to the White House in the evening, and go to Baltimore on

Tue"sRdaayil.way         .

                       travelling
                   .                          very cheap and most luxurious. Meanwhile
                       .

                              I
                                          is
we are promised free passes on the Chicago lines and also to California.

           have not been so well for years. My digestion                           perfect, and am
I                                                   I                              a
                                                         II
                                                                                    I
in high spirits. But am homesick at times, and would give finger         is

to be one hour with you, and G., and M. But dream of you all every

night, and my dreams are more pleasant now sleep with my window

open to counteract the hideous heat of these hot-air pipes. R. very                is

well and the best of secretaries. Tell G. was delighted with his letter.is

Death of Charles Sumner.                                            427

  " On Monday the 9th, I was asked by the Speaker of the House of

Representatives to open the Session of the House with prayer,* and

I simply repeated two collects from the English Prayer-book, mentioning,

as is the custom, the President of the United States, the Senate, and

the House of Representatives, and ended with the Lord's Prayer."

" From New York my father went up the Hudson to Pough-

keepsie and Troy, joining me at Hartford (Conn.) on the 14th,
to pay a long-promised visit to Mr. Samuel Clemens (Mark
Twain). From Troy to Hartford he came through the wooded
passes of Berkshire County, and was enthusiastic about the

beauty of the pine forests, and rocky trout streams, just breaking

free from the winter snow which was beginning to melt, com

paring it to the best parts of the Eifel and Black Forest.
   " On Monday the 1 6th, we returned to Boston to stay with my

father's old friend Mr. James T. Field, in whose hospitable house

we were able to see many whose acquaintance we had long wished

to make, and whose friendship was a lasting pleasure to my

father. During this week my father spent one night at New

Haven, staying with his namesake and distant kinsman, Dr.

William Kingsley, of Yale College."

                                                              Boston, March 23.

I". . . . We are housed and feasted everywhere.               do not tire the
least. -- Sleep at night, and rise in the morning as fresh as a lark, to eat

a great breakfast, my digestion always in perfect order, while my nerve
is like a bull's. This is a marvellous climate. The Americans make

Ithemselves ill by hot-air, and foul air, and want of exercise ; I, who sleep

with my window open and get all fresh air can by day, am always well.

To-morrow morning we start for Montreal, and then on to Quebec to
Igoo"dSuCmonl.erS'stradnegaet.h has been an awful blow here.
                                                              do not wonder, for
he was a magnificent man. He and I were introduced to each other in

the Senate an hour before his attack. He was most cordial, and we

had much talk about Gladstone, and the A.'s. His last words to me

were, that he was going to write to the Duchess of Argyll the next day.
Alas ! I wrote to her for him, to tell her particulars of the end.
   " Oh, dear, I wish spring would come, the winter here is awful.  The

grass as brown with frost as a table. But the blue-bird and the robin (as

   * This was considered a most unusual distinction, and the deep solemnity of
manner and simplicity with which it was done struck every one present.

248 Charles Kuigsley.

they call a great particoloured thrush,) are just beginning to come, to my
intense delight. However, when we go north to-morrow we shall run

into Arctic weather again. Don't frighten yourself at our railroads, they

seem utterly safe, and I believe one is far safer, humanly speaking, here

than at home. As for the people, they are fine, generous, kindly, whole

some folk, all classes of them. Now good-bye, and love to M., and my

blessing to G. . . ."

                                                         Montreal, March 28.

" Here we are safe, on what I hope is our dear Maurice's wedding-

day, thank God, in this magnificent city, in intense frost, snow, and

sunshine. I have been just walking on the St. Lawrence, where ocean
steamers will be lying in two months' time. I have also been calling on

the Bishop (Ashton Oxenden,) who is very cordial, and wanted us to
come and stay with him ; but we were pre-engaged to an old Cambridge

classman of mine, Fisher. I read a poem just now in Whittier's new
volume, which spoke to me so much of you that I must get the book

and"  bring it   to you.    is a snow-shoe  club  among  the  young gentlemen
      Tell G.   that there

here : but it is stopped by the snow being gone for awhile ; and that

everyone drives in sledges, covered with buffalo robes, &c, and the

hack drivers in strangest fur coats and caps, and red or blue sashes, and

most picturesque they are. Tell him also there is a hill 400 feet high,
mostly cliff, in front of my window now, (the old Mont Royal of the

first settlers,) with a few pines 100 feet high on the top, and though they

must be a mile off, they look as if you could touch them, the air is so

clear. We came yesterday through grand scenery, though obscured by
snow showers in the upper mountains, 5,000 to 6,000 feet high, but got

such a crimson sunset behind the Adirondacks, across Lake Champlain,

as made me long for you to see it with me. We ran through the won

derful tubular St. Lawrence bridge, one-and-a-half mile long, by moonlight,

and got here at 10.30, after fourteen-and-a-half hours. There, this is a
Idisjointed letter : but
                            wanted you to know we were safe ; and my

heart is so full of you, and of all at home."

                                                                                    Quebec, April 1.

   " Here we are in a beautiful little old city, with tin roofs and spires,
we in the citadel, on the top of a cliff like St. Vincent's Rocks, with

the blazing sun above and blazing snow below, and the St. Lawrence,
a mile wide of snowy ice, at our feet, with sledges crawling over it

like flies. We have crossed the river in a tandem sledge and driven
out to the Falls of Montmorency, which look two miles off, and are six

or seven, and seen the most awful and beautiful thing I ever saw.

                  From North to South.   429

The fall, 260 feet high, fringed with icicles 50 feet long, roaring into a
horrible gulf of ice, under an exquisite white ice cone 100 feet high,

formed of its own spray. I looked in silence. One had no more

right -- when we went to the top and looked into the gulf -- to talk there
than in church. Every one, as usual, is most kind. Dear Col. Strange
is most charming. To-morrow we start for Ottawa to stay with Lord
and Lady Dufferin, in quiet for Good Friday and Easter, and then back
to New York. R. well and happy, and after driving all the morning
gone out on a sliding party on the ramparts. The bishop here is a
Hampshire man and a fisherman. All goes well. The cold is less

than I expected, and will be gone in two to four weeks more. Tell G.

I have eaten moose, but the Indians have only killed one this winter,

because the snow is so light, only two feet instead of six ! that the

moose can get away from them. There was a plague of lynxes round

the city last winter, who came to eat the cats, the hares being dead

of distemper ; and they killed seventeen close round ; this year there are

none. We saw wolf track, and I think moose, from the railway."

                                                                      Ottawa, April 3, 1874.
" Found your letter here, where we are resting for Passion Week, and

most comfortable with these pleasant clever people. . . . Don't say we

cannot be colder than you are at Harrow ; the citadel at Quebec would
kill you in a week, whereas it made R. quite well, and did not hurt me

save with pain of cold. The thermometer outside the train on Tuesday

was below zero."                         Washington, April 9.

   " Here we are safe and sound, having run 500 miles in thirty hours
to Baltimore, from the delightful Dufferins. . . . The long journeys do

not in the least tire me, so have no fears for me. The safety of these
rails is wonderful, as is their comfort. We have come out of intense

winter into damp spring. The birds (such beauties) are coming fast
from the Bahamas and Floridas ; the maples are in crimson clouds of

little flowers ; the flowers are coming out in the gardens. I have seen

two wasps like West India ones, an inch and a half long, and heard a tree

toad, and am warm once more. All goes well. We have a dinner

party to-night ; we are staying with Senator Potter, and to-morrow a

dinner-party with the President. So we shall have seen quasi-royalty,

IBritish and American both in one week. . . . Thank God for our
English letters.  cannot but hope that there is a time of rest and
Irefreshing for us after return
                                         To me the absence of labour and
anxiety is most healthy. I am quite idle now for days together, and the

rail itself is most pleasant idleness."

430 Charles Kingsley.

   "At Baltimore my father yielded to the entreaties of the

friends with whom we were staying, and preached on the 1 2th
in the principal church of Baltimore to a large congregation. On
Easter day he had preached in the little church close^to Rideau,
for the first time since he landed in America, on ' The Peace of
God.' On the 20th of April, we left New York to begin working
our way slowly westward, so as to be at Omaha early in May to
meet a large party of friends who had invited us to join them in
a trip to California. Our first halting place was Ithaca (Cornell
University), which we should have reached on the evening of the
20th, but on the Erie railroad we were stopped for six hours by
a huge rock falling on the track as a coal train was coming

towards us, round sharp curves, and we should have had a

frightful accident but for the presence of mind of the engineer,
as his engine ran over the rock, jamming itself and the tender
across both lines of rail ; he being unhurt, and remembering our
train was due at that moment, ran down the line seeing us
coming, and we pulled up within 100 yards of the disaster. It
happened in the midst of the finest scenery on the Delaware,
above Port Jervis, where the railway follows the windings of the
river, and is in many places blasted out of the cliffs. And as
there was no possibility of getting on till the disabled train and

broken trucks were removed, my father and I spent the hours of

waiting in wandering about the rocky woods above the railway,

botanizing and geologizing.
    " On Tuesday we reached Ithaca, and went on the next day

to Niagara. After one night at Niagara we went on the 23rd
(St. George's day) forty miles to Hamilton (Ontario), where my
father had an enthusiastic reception at his lecture. After lectur
ing he went to the dinner of the St. George's Society
We returned next day to Niagara, staying at Clark's Hill with
an old English friend, with whom we spent the next three days,

my father preaching on Sunday, the 26th, in the morning, at
Clifton, and in the afternoon at Chippewa. He thoroughly en
joyed being once more in the country, and the walks on country
roads, after three months of cities and pavements. The spring
birds were just beginning to make their appearance, and the
spring flowers to try and push their leaves through the melting

                       A Lovely Phantom.                                 431

snow. On the 27th we went on to Toronto for one night, and
on the 28th we finally bade farewell to Canada, and set our faces

westward, reaching Detroit (Mich.) late that night. /

   " At Detroit, where we stayed three days with the rector of

one of the Episcopal churches, the weather was still bitter, and

my father could not shake off a cold which he had caught at
Niagara. But as we neared St. Louis, on the afternoon of the
2nd of May, after a railway journey of twenty hours, we began

to be warm once more, and realize what spring time in the West

really was. All the fruit trees were in blossom ; the ground on

either side of the railway, where any was left untilled, was carpeted
with beautiful flowers utterly unknown to us, and the air was

mild and balmy."

                                                                Niagara, April 23.

" At last we are here, safe and well, thank God, in the most glorious

air, filled with the soft thunder of this lovely phanton, for such, and

not stupendous, it seems as yet to me. I know it could and would
Idestroy me pitilessly, like other lovely phantoms, but do not feel awed

by After all,          not quarter of the size of an average thunder
it.
                a

                       it
                            is
                                       a
                                                     a
storm, and the continuous roar, and steady flow, makes less terrible
                                                                   I it
than either thunderstorm or real Atlantic surf. But long for you

to sit with me, and simply look on in silence whole days at the exquisite

beauty of form and colour. . .
a
         in

                  I
                                                      .
   " After delightful time in the Prince's old quarters at Hamilton, we
are here again another old quarter of his, the loveliest house in the

loveliest grounds, and as write the whole rapids of Niagara roaring

past 100 yards off, between the huge arbor vitse, forty feet high, like a

tremendous grey Atlantic surf rushing down-hill instead of up.           could
                                                                         I
not describe the beauty of this place in week.
                                                                             is

                                                                               I
                                                         a      I  can see the smoke

of the horse-shoe through vista on my left, not half mile off as
                       a                                           a

sit (sketch enclosed). We are above, understand, and the river run

ning from right to left. To-day we are going to Des Veaux College to
see the lower rapids. Will you give Sir William Cope my love, and

apologies for not having written in time to ask him to continue to be

my churchwarden, which hope he will be kind enough to do
                     it
As to what you say of
                        I
                            ,I

                                                             a
                                am hopeful that as she gets weaker the

brain will uncloud, and that you will see bright, peaceful sunset after

all. God grant that may be so for you, and for her, and for all of us,

and all we love."

432 Charles Kingsley.

                                                                             St. Louis, May 4.
" At St. Louis safe and well, thank God, in the capital of the West,

and across the huge rushing muddy ditch, the Mississippi. Having
come here over vast prairies, mostly tilled, hundreds of miles like the

Norfolk fens, without the ditches, a fat, dreary, aguish, brutalizing land,

but with a fine strong people in and here  it,              city of 470,000 souls
                                                            is
                                                               a
                                                                    a
growing rapidly. It all very wonderful, and like dream. But there
is
                               is

                                   is
material civilization and comfort everywhere (except at the stations

where the food bad), and all goes well. Only wish already that our
                                                            I

heads were homeward, and that we had done the great tour, and had                        a it

not to do. However, we shall go west in comfort. The Cyrus Fields,

the Grays, and probably the dear Rotherys, will make up good party.
                                                               if

                                                                 I
                                                                           a
                                                                         I
And cannot but feel that have gained much only in the vast
I                                      I

          a                                              ;

        I                                           I
experience of new people and new facts.                     shall come home hope

wider-hearted and wider-headed man and have time, trust, to read

and think as have not done for many years. At least so runs my dream.

We had glorious thunderstorm last night after had helped at the
                                                               I

communion in the morning, and preached in the afternoon for good

Mr. Schuyler. R. looks better already at the mere idea of being in her
beloved West. Tell G. we are going to see one of the first-class Missis

sippi steamers for New Orleans, which are so famous. She will not blow

up at the quay side. We are going out to see the Botanic Garden this

afternoon, and there plenty to interest us before we start for Omaha,
             is
where we pick up our party, and then away to Denver and Salta

Lake, &c Ah that you were here. But you could not do
                                                            it
                                                                                  it
it," We start to-morrow for California, after receiving here every civility.
    a isThe heat tremendous, all of sudden, but will be cooler as we rise
the prairies out of the Mississippi Valley. We have free passes here to

Kansas city, and the directors offered to take us on with them to

Denver. We shall also have free passes to California and back from
Omaha -- great gain."

   " We stayed for week in St. Louis, where the hot weathera

came on so suddenly and fiercely that we were both made quiteif                       ;
ill by and were thankful on Saturday, the 9th of May, to leave
the city on our way to Omaha, where we were to join our friends
from New York.

  " The journey was intensely hot. A perfect sirocco blowing

away everything in the cars the windows were opened but the

country was so lovely as almost to make amends for our discom-

                    Council Bluffs --Past and Present.                 433

fort. The trees were bursting into a tender green ; the woods
were here snowy with the pure white dogwood and wild plum

blossoms, there, purple pink with the Judas tree, and down below
grew countless wild flowers, making us long every moment that

it were possible to stop the train and gather them.
   " We reached Omaha on Sunday morning, the 10th, and had

hardly been there an hour before we felt the renovating effect of

the glorious air rushing down, down, in a gale 500 miles from the
Rocky Mountains, to cool and refresh the panting Missouri

Valley ; and we were able once more to eat and sleep, which in

the heat of the last three days at St. Louis had become im

possible."

                                               Omaha, May II.

" And we are at Omaha ! a city of 20,000, five years old, made by

the railway, and opposite to us is Council Bluffs ! ! Thirty years ago

....Ithe palavering ground of trappers and Indians (now all gone), and to
that very spot, which   had known of from a boy, and all about
                                               !

                                                          a

                                                             Ia

                                                              it,I
meant to go in despair         as soon as took my degree, and throw
                        I
                          I

                                I
                                            I
myself into the wild life, to sink or swim, escaping from civilization

which only tempted me and maddened me with the envy of poor

man Oh how good God has been to me. Oh how when saw
those Bluffs yesterday morning thanked God for you -- for everything,
!
                 !

and stared at them till cried  Give my love to Harrison, and

tell him how specially glad am that he was at Livingstone's funeral."  .
                                                                          .
                                                                              .

    " On the 14th the party of friends we were awaiting arrived ata
Omaha, and on the following day we left with them for the first
stage of the Californian journey. Mr. Cyrus Field and Mr. A.    J.
C. Gray, of New York, were the organizers of the expedition,
and with them, besides several of their own relations and friends,

were Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Rothery, making party of eleven
Americans and five English, which quite filled, but did not

crowd, the magnificent Pullman car which was our home for the

next fortnight.
   " Our first halt was at Salt Lake City, where we arrived on

Friday, the 15th May, one day too late, unfortunately, for my
father to take part in the consecration of St. Mark's, the first

Episcopal church which has been built in Utah. On Sunday,

the 17th, however, he preached the evening sermon at the church,
        VOL. II.
                                                        F
                                                           F

434 Charles KingsLy.

to such a crowded congregation that there was not standing
room in the little building, and numbers had to go away. The

steps outside, and even the pavement, being crowded with lis
teners, among whom were many Mormons as well as ' Gentiles.'
Brigham Young sent to offer my father the tabernacle to lecture
or preach in, but of this offer he of course took no notice what
ever, a course strongly approved by the excellent Bishop, Dr.

Tuttle.
   " On Monday, the 18th, we left Salt Lake City, after a visit to

General Moreau at Camp Douglas, the United States camp, on
the hill-side above the city, who had one of the Gatling guns

fired for our amusement. On our remonstrating against such a
waste of ammunition he said that ' he was glad sometimes to show

those rascals in the city how straight his guns fired, and that if

they gave him any trouble he could blow the city to pieces in an
hour.' "

Walker House, Salt Lake City, Utah, May 17.

   " Here we are after such a journey of luxury --through a thousand miles
of desert, plain, and mountain, treeless, waterless almost, sage brush
and alkali. Then canons and gorges, the last just like Llanberris Pass,

into this enormous green plain, with its great salt lake ; and such a

I Imountain ring, 300 to 400 miles in circumference ! The loveliest scene

  ever saw. As sit, the snow-peaks of the Wasatch tower above the
opposite houses five miles off, while the heat is utterly tropical in the
streets. Yesterday we were running through great snowdrifts, at from

5,000 to 7,000 feet above the sea (we are 5,000 here), and all along
by our side the old trail, where every mile is fat with Mormon bones.
Sadness and astonishment overpower me at it all. The ' city ' is

thriving enough, putting one in mind, with its swift streams in all

streets, and mountain background, of Tarbes, or some other Pyrenean

town. But, ah ! what horrors this place has seen. Thank God it

is all breaking up fast. The tyrant is 70, and must soon go to his
Iaccount, and what an awful one.
                                  am deeply interested in the good

bishop here, and his mission among the poor little children, whose

parents are principally Cornish, Worcestershire, and South Welsh ;

and if I can do aught for him when I come home, I will do it

with a will. Meanwhile our kind hosts insist on R. and me being

their guests right through, and let us pay for nothing. It is an enor

mous help, for they control both railways and telegraphs, and do and go

exactly as they like. The gentlemen and R. are gone down to-day to

                      The Yosemite Valley.                                   435

see a silver mine, by special engine, and she and Rothery (F.L.S.) are
going to botanize. The flowers are exquisite, yellow ribes all over the

cliffs, &c, and make one long to jump off the train every five minutes.

While the geology makes me stand aghast ; geologizing in England is

Ichild's play to this. R. is quite well, and the life of everything, and

am    all right, but  don't like a dry air at 95 °, with a sirocco.  a  man  who
      Interrupted     by a most interesting and painful talk with
   "

has been United States Governor here. It is all very dreadful. Thank
IGod we (in England) at least know what love and purity is.
                                                                        preach

to-morrow evening, and the Bishop of Colorado in the morning."

    " On the 20th our car was slipped during the night at Reno,
and when we woke at 5 A.M., we found ourselves on a branch
line at Carson city. After breakfast, with Californian straw
berries heaped on dishes on every table, we left our car for a
special train, the Pullman being too long for the sharp curves of
the railroad, and with Mr. D. O. Mills, of San Francisco, who

had joined our train in his directors' car, the day before, at

Ogden, we went up to Virginia city, and spent the day among

silver mines and stamp mills, and dust, and drought, my dear
father finding, even in the out of the way spot, a warm and
hearty welcome from many. We returned to Carson in the
afternoon, and were picked up in the night by the Western train
at Reno, breakfasting at Summit, on the top of the Sierra
Nevada next morning, and arrived at Sacramento at midday on

the 2 1 st.

   " My father was delighted at finding himself once more in
almost tropical heat, and spent all the afternoon driving with
our friends about the city, and revelling in the gorgeous sub
tropical flowers which hung over every garden fence. In the

evening he lectured to a very pleasant audience, and that night
we left Sacramento in our car, with a special engine, for Merced,

which we reached before dawn.
   " Next morning, the 22nd, we were all up about four, and

before starting on our Yosemite trip, Mr. Cyrus Field sent off a
telegram to the Dean of Westminster, to my mother, and various

friends in England --: ' We are, with Canon Kingsley and his

daughter and other friends, just entering Yosemite Valley, all in

436 Charles Kingsley.

excellent health and spirits. Mr. Kingsley is to preach for us in
Yosemite on Sunday.'

   " We started at 6 A.M. in two open stages with five horses, and

drove 54 miles that day through exquisite country, botanizing
all the way to Skeltons, a ranch in the forest, and some of our

party made their first acquaintance with a real western shanty.
On the 23rd we were all up betimes, my father, the earliest of
all, came up with his hands full of new and beautiful flowers,

after a chat with the guides, who had driven the mules and

ponies in from their grazing ground, and were beginning to

saddle them for our day's ride. At 6 we started, and my father

said he felt a boy again, and thoroughly enjoyed the long day in
the saddle, which many of our friends found so tiring. We chose

a new and unfrequented route, and having to climb two moun

tains and ride along precipices, and ford four rivers in flood in

29 miles, we were not sorry to reach the Valley at sunset. But
rough as the ride was, it surpassed in beauty anything we had
ever seen before, as we followed the windings of the Merced

river between pine-clad mountains, still white with snow on their
highest points, till we reached the mouth of the valley itself, and,

emerging from a thicket of dogwood, pines, and azaleas, ' El

Capitan,' just tipped with the rosy setting sun on one side, and
the Bridal Veil Fall rushing in a white torrent, 900 feet high,
over the gloomy rocks, on the other side, revealed themselves to

us in a glow of golden rosy light.
    " The next day (Whit Sunday) most of our party rested from

their fatigues, and we walked about and feasted our eyes on the

almost overpowering scene around us, which seemed, if possible,

 to increase in beauty in every fresh phase of light or shade, sun

light or moonlight. At 5 P.M. the visitors at both hotels assem

 bled in the little parlour at Black's, and my father gave a short

 service, after which we sang the 100th Psalm, and he preached

 a short sermon on verses 10-14, 16-18 of the 104th Psalm, which
 happily was the Psalm for the day.*

* In his sermon, in Westminster Abbey, on Whit-Sunday, the Dean of Westminster

r"efOernredthistoveMryr.daFyie,"ld'hse  "telegram.  I  His text, too, was on Psalm civ., 2,       14, 15, 24:
                                                        learnt yesterday by that electric flash  which unites
                                        says (so

the old and new worlds together), a gifted member of this Collegiate Church, whose

  Whitsun Sermons in Westminster and California. 43 7

   " On Monday we spent the day in riding all over the Valley,

and on Tuesday, 26th, we left it at 6 A.M., and rode 24 miles to

Clark's Ranch, near the Mariposa Grove. It was bitterly cold,
for the snow had not melted on some of the high passes, which

were 7,000 feet above the sea ; but we found blazing fires and a
good supper at Clark's, and after a good night rode out six miles
the next day to the Mariposa Grove of Sequoias (Wellingtonias).

My father and I agreed to see the first one together, and riding

on ahead of our party a little, we suddenly came upon the first,
a huge cinnamon-red stem standing up pillar-like, with its head
of delicate green foliage among the black sugar pines and Douglas

spruce, and I shall never forget the emotion with which he gazed
silently -- and as he said ' awe struck '--on this glorious work of

God.

   " It was very cold, and we rode over snow for some two miles

under the ' big trees,' and were glad to camp in Mr. Clark's little
empty shanty under a group of some of the largest of the sequoias.
Mr. Clark, who is the guardian of the Grove, had come with us

as well as our own guide, Jim Cathy, and they soon lighted a

roaring fire, and, seated on a bed of fragrant hemlock twigs, we
warmed ourselves and ate our luncheon of bread and meat and
excellent beer, and then rode on and back to the Ranch, with a
collection of flowers that took our whole evening to dry. Next

day, the 28th, we drove down to Merced, 65 miles, and there

discourses on this and like Psalms have rivetted the attention of vast congregations in

this Abbey, and who is able to combine the religious and scientific aspects of Nature

better than any man living, is on this very day, and perhaps at this very hour, preach
ing in the most beautiful spot on the face of the earth, where the glories of Nature are
revealed on the most gigantic scale --in that wonderful Californian Valley, to whose

trees, the cedars of Lebanon are but as the hyssop that groweth out of the wall-- where

water and forest and sky conjoin to make up, if anywhere on this globe, an earthly
           Let me, from this pulpit, faintly echo the enthusiasm which I doubt
paradise.

not inspires his burning words. Let us feel that in this splendid Psalm and this

splendid festival, the old and the new, the east and the west, are indeed united in

one."

On May 26th Mrs. Kingsley received the following telegraphic message from Mr.

"Cyrus Field, through the Secretary of the Anglo-American Telegraph Company :

   Yosemite Valley, California, Sunday, May 24th. -- We arrived here safely Saturday

evening, all delighted with the magnificent scenery. Canon Kingsley preached in the

Valley this Sunday afternoon. We leave here Tuesday for the Big Trees. Arrive in

San Francisco, Friday. Remain there till the following Wednesday."

438 Charles Kingsley.

joined the railroad again, and left on the 29th at dawn, arriving
that afternoon in San Francisco."

                                                                            San Francisco, May 31.

" Here we are safe after such adventures and such wonders in the

Yosemite and the Big Trees, and found the dear English letters waiting
            Tell G. I will write to him all about the sea lions which
for us
I Isaw this morning. All is more beautiful and wonderful than
expected, and California the finest country in the world--and oh ! the

flowers."

                                                                                Jum 9.

  I" The next letter you get from me will, hope, be from Denver. We

start east to-morrow, thank God, and run the Sierras, and the desert

back again, and beautiful as California                                             think destined to be the finest
                                                                                    iIs,

                                                                                               in
country in the world, want to be nearer and nearer home. We have
I
         I

                           I

                                                       ;
been so heaped with kindness that this trip will cost us almost nothing.

have got cones from the big trees, with seeds them, for Lord Eversley

and Sir Charles Bunbury and we have collected heaps of most exquisite

plants.     think we shall bring home many pretty and curious things.

The letters are delectable. Tell all the servants that wish heartily                                  I
                                                                                    is

                                                                                               I
was through and safe home again, for there no place like England."

" We stayed in San Francisco about ten days, my father mak

ing excursions to different places in the neighbourhood. The

most notable of these was to the Berkeley University at Oakland,

whither he was invited by the president, Mr. D. C. Gilman. This

day he most thoroughly enjoyed and he made an address to
                                                          :
the students full of vigour and enthusiasm, on Culture, subject       '
                                                                                 ;                 a

always very near to his heart.                            Berkeleyan,'                             the students' paper,
   " To quote the words of the

which appeared next day --

" Few incidents in our college life at Berkeley have given more
''
pleasure to the college circle, teachers and scholars alike, than the;

recent visit of Mr. Charles Kingsley.                                               was not as Canon of West
            ;
                       is

                                       in
                                        a It
minster, nor as Professor of History in the University of Cambridge

that we greeted him but as the poet, the novelist, the essayist and the

scholar as the man who ever ready to advocate the truth, ever quick

to encourage progress, ever ready to utter the best aspirations of the

human soul.                                                                         very quiet way, almost unan-

   " Mr. Kingsley came to Berkeley

                            Culture in California.                                    439

nounced, attended by his daughter, by the British Consul in San Fran

cisco, and by a few other English friends, one of whom, Mr. Rothery,

is  a  representative of the British Government in Washington.

    "  ' His speech at Berkeley had but one drawback. It was                  too     brief;

but the words, though few, were fitting and of good cheer. His allu

sions to Berkeley, the philosopher, were striking and felicitous ; and his

plea for comprehensive culture, and for long-continued intellectual

training was most timely. A speech so invigorating, and yet so simple,
will long be remembered -- like a draught of pure water in a thirsty

clime.
   " ' At half-past two o'clock, the students rallied in the rear of the

edifice, under the battalion commander, and marched to seats in the

ass"em' Abdlyvahnaclilntgo  formally   welcome   their distinguished  guest.  class,  then
                            to the    front, W.                       senior
                                                 R. Davis, of the

addressed to the Canon a few remarks appropriate to this rare occasion.
He expressed the unanimous sentiment of the audience. Though

thousands of miles separated Mr. Kingsley from California, his fame

had reached us, and we read with pleasure and profit the productions

of his pen, and, were the distance doubly great, the result would be

the same.

   " ' Canon Kingsley returned his acknowledgments of the compliment

with a slight bow, and spoke to the pupils in feeling terms. There was

an eloquence and earnestness in his utterances that elevated them to

the plane of oratory. The man was inspired, and felt every word that
he spoke. And he spoke to a purpose. Though the tone of his voice

was low, and his manner of delivery slow and quiet, there was a mag
netism in his presence that held the attention of his hearers. He

desired to speak for the other cultivated English people present.

They saw a new world beyond the new world, containing much that

tends to make a world great and good. But behind this fact was one

equally potent : the old world was the seat of culture and learning,

and to her the young men could look for many useful lessons. He

drew a line of demarcation between culture and learning, which he

desired the students to bear in mind. He endorsed the dissemination of

technical knowledge, and yet desired that his hearers should strive for a

moral as well as intellectual education, and the culture so highly appre

ciated by the ancient Greeks and Romans and the Japanese of to-day.

Such an education would humble them in the present, and render them

hopeful of the future. And the better would it adapt them to the

struggles of life in the world. Out of darkness would come light.
The culture and knowledge of the old world must tell the student when,

where, and how to rise. The University ought to be the glory of Cali

440 Charles Kingsley.

fornia, and the coast, as a common civilizer of the Pacific The

institution should represent civilization itself in the highest sense. By
civilization he did not mean exclusively the knowledge of books. The

student must act by and live up to the books.

   " ' The speaker was forcibly impressed with the singular coincidence

that the site of the University bore the name of the man who, next to
Plato, had taught him the most instructive lessons in philosophy --
Berkeley. The Bishop was one of the noblest, calmest, and kindest of

all philosophers. One cannot read his works too often. The student

should take heed that the works did not become a mere name to them.

Read them over and over again. The speaker read them when he

desired relaxation ; read at random, and found the practice as bracing

as our pure Californian air. If he could see a school of Berkeleyan

philosophy founded on this side of the continent, he should think that
California had done a great deal for the human race --a great deal for

America, and for Europe likewise. But there were other topics that

might be discussed.

  "'The students should not forget, amid the pursuits of a technical

education, to cultivate the aesthetic faculty --a taste for music and the

fine arts. They should learn to appreciate grace and manners, and

beauty of form, as studied by the Greeks and Ionians, who produced

the sculptors, painters and musicians of old. The reverend gentleman

ventured to hope for a time when Berkeley would become the Athens

of modern times. The suggestion with reference to aesthetic culture

was elaborated with graceful suggestions, and enriched with classical

allusions admirably adapted to the illustration of Mr. Kingsley's ideas

on this point. He paid a special tribute to music He trusted that

music would reach the dignity of a science in the University. Not one

student in one hundred would continue to give music attention in after

life, and yet the beneficial influence of the study would still be mani

fest. Music was necessary to the rounding and finishing of the perfect

character. The speaker closed his address with a practical example of
the beneficial effects of culture, narrating an anecdote of a couple of

English University graduates who went to the wilds of Australia.

Though these men were surrounded by coarse and pernicious influences

they remained untarnished by continuing their classical studies. The

same spirit that imbued these graduates with a love for culture made them

superior to their surroundings. They read Greek plays in the original

for entertainment after Sabbath devotions.  Culture meant true

freedom. He exhorted his hearers to cultivate the true, the beautiful,

and the good, if they would succeed in life, and thus closed his beau

tiful address.

Illness in the Rocky Mountains.  441

   " ' The occasion was one long to be remembered by those who had
the good fortune to be present ; and the remarks of the Canon will

also cling to the memory. With the high regard for the eternal fitness
of things that is peculiar to him, the Canon did not indulge in fulsome
eulogies of the people and institutions of California, but talked with a
nice discrimination. He talked of the future rather than of the present.
He peered into the future, and discussed what might be accomplished.
He saw the grand capabilities of the University.' "

   " During the last few days of my father's stay in San Francisco,

he caught a severe cold from the damp sea fog which makes the
city and parts of the coast of California extremely unhealthy,

while a few miles inland the climate is the finest in the world.
This cold became rapidly worse, and the doctors in San Francisco

ordered him to leave the city as quickly as possible ; so on Wed

nesday, June 10, we set off eastward once more, with Mr. J. A.
C. Gray, and part of our original party ; and after a very trying
journey of four days, we reached Denver. Here most providen
tially my father met his brother, Dr. Kingsley, who found that he
was suffering from a severe attack of pleurisy, and advised our

going south on the next day, 75 miles, to Colorado Springs,
by the narrow gauge railway, which my brother had helped to
build four years before. Here Dr. and Mrs. W. A. Bell received
us, and nursed my father with the most devoted attention in their
charming English house, at the foot of Pike's Peak.

   "As soon as my father had recovered sufficiently to be moved,

we all drove up twenty-two miles to Bergun's Park for change of
air, and stayed at Mr. Cholmondely Thornton's Ranch, for a
week. My father's chief amusement during these weeks of ill

ness was botany, and though he was not able to get many

specimens himself, he took a keen delight in naming those we

brought him in every day.
   " On Sunday, the 5th July, he had recovered enough to be

able to read a short service in the large dining-room of the Ranch,

and he often reverted to that service with pleasure and emotion.
    " On the 6th we went down again to Manitou, and spent a few

days with General and Mrs. Palmer, at Glen Eyrie, whose care and
kindness helped on his recovery ; and on the following Sunday,

July 12, my father preached in the Episcopal Church at Colorado

442 Charles Kingsley.

Springs, which was barely finished, and in which only one service
had been held. The church was crowded, many men, young
Englishmen chiefly, having ridden in twenty miles and more from
distant Ranches to hear my father preach. The next week, be
fore leaving Colorado Springs for the homeward journey, he gave
a lecture in Colorado Springs for the benefit of the church,
where he also had a crowd to listen to him. The place was very
dear to him from the fact of my brother having been one of the

first pioneers there."

                                                               Manitou, Colorado, June 18.

   "We are here in perfect peace, at last, after the running and
raging of the last three weeks, and safe back over those horrid deserts,
in a lovely glen, with red rocks, running and tinkling burn, whispering
cotton woods, and all that is delicious, with Pike's Peak and his snow
seemingly in the back garden, but 8000 feet over our heads. Oh, it is
a delicious place, and the more so, because we have just got a telegram
from Maurice, to say he and his wife are safe in New York from Mexico.
Thank God ! The heat is tremendous, but not unwholesome. God's

Igoodness since have been out, no tongue can tell. . . . Please God
I shall get safe and well home, and never leave you again, but settle
down into the quietest old theologian, serving God, I hope, and doing

nothing else, in humility and peace."

                                                                                               June 29.

   " A delightful party has clustered here, not only the Rotherys, but

Dudley Fortescue and Lord Ebrington, who has just got his Trinity
scholarship, and is a charming lad ; and we all go up to Bell's Ranch
in Bergun's Park to-morrow, for a few days, to get cool, for the heat
here is tropic, and we cannot move by day. That has given me rest

Ithough, and a time for reading. God has been so gracious that can

not think that He means to send my grey hairs down in sorrow to the
grave, but will, perhaps, give me time to reconsider myself, and sit quietly

with you, preaching and working, and writing no more. Oh! how I pray
for that. Tell the Dean I have been thinking much of him as I read

Arnold's life and letters. Ah, happy and noble man ; happy life, and

Ihappy death. But must live, please God, a little longer, for all your

sakes. Love to G. and M."

                                                                  Bergun's Park, July 2.

   " Oh, my Love, Your birthday-letter was such a comfort to me, for I am
very home-sick, and counting the days till I can get back to you. Ah, few

                                      Colorado Springs.                                 443

and evil would have been the days of my pilgrimage had I not met you;
and now I do look forward to something like a peaceful old age with you.

 . . Tell John Martineau his letter was a great comfort to me. This
place is like an ugly Highland strath, bordered with pine woods. Air

almost too fine to breathe, 7200 feet high. Pike's Peak 7000 feet more
at one end, fifteen miles off; and, alas ! a great forest-fire burning for

three days between us and and at the other end wonderful ragged peaks,
                                      ; it;
ten to twenty miles off. Flowers most lovely and wonderful. Plenty of
                                          :
the dear common hare-bell, and several Scotch and English plants, mixed
                                              ;
with the strangest forms. We are (or rather Rose is) making splendidit
collection. She and the local botanist got more than fifty new sorts one
                                                 I is                        a
                                                                                     ;
morning. Her strength and activity and happiness are wonderful and. I ;I

M.'s letters make me very happy. Yes                                      ahave much to thank God for,

and will try and show my thankfulness by deeds. Love to G. Tell him

there are lots of trout here but       too hot to catch them."

                                                                             GLEN EYRIE, J-.,ly n.

" Thank God our time draws nigh.       preach at Colorado Springs to

morrow, and lecture for the Church on Wednesday;* Denver, Friday,

and then right away to New York, and embark on the 25th. Letters
from M., who has gone to Tennessee.
" This                                   ..
           wonderful spot such crags, pillars, caves-- red and grey --
a
                   is
                       a

                                   a
perfect thing in stage scene and the Flora, such jumble-- cactus,
                                                                             a

                                                                                     I
yucca, poison sumach, and lovely strange flowers, mixed with Douglas's

* CANON KINGSLEY AND A BEETLE. -- (From                                      Denver Letter). -- will relate a

little anecdote of Canon Kingsley, which heard at Colorado Springs, the other day.

On recent evening he read his lecture on "Westminster Abbey" to the people of
a

Colorado Springs, right under the shadow of Pike's Peak. In the midst of his lecture

a bug of some species of Coleoptsra, new and strange to the eminent lecturer, alighted

on his manuscript and attracted his attention at once. Mr. Bug sat still a moment or

two, during which space the speaker "improved the occasion" to study his peculiari

ties of form and structure-- perhaps determining in his mind certain obscure or doubt

ful questions but while these investigations were in progress, and his language rolling
        ;

right along to the delight of his hearers, the insect began to expand his wings as
                                                                                        it

                                                                                           if
anxious to fly away. The reverend speaker saw the motion, and deftly caught in

his hand. Going right on with his line of argument, he continued his examination

for several moments, until, having settled everything to his own satisfaction, he let               it

buzz away about its own business -- perhaps mentally repeating the parting injunction

of "My Uncle Toby" to the fly. To any ordinary man the presence of such an

intruder would have been unwelcome, and he would have been brushed aside, but the

great English divine, trained to such close habits of observation and thought, could

not forego the opportunity, even in the midst of his lecture, to study the points in                a

new species of beetle, his mental discipline enabling him to carry along in his mind

two trains of ideas at the same time.

444 Charles Kingsley.

and Menzies' pine, and eatable pinon, and those again with our own

harebells and roses, and all sorts of English flowers. Tell G. I have

seen no rattlesnakes ; but they killed twenty-five here a year or two
ago, and little Nat M., twelve years old, killed five. Tell him that there
are 'painted lady' butterflies, and white admirals here, just like our
English, and a locust, which, when he opens his wings, is exactly like a

white admiral butterfly ! and with them enormous tropic butterflies, all

colours, and as big as bats. We are trying to get a horned toad to bring

home alive. There is a cave opposite my window which must have been

full of bears once, and a real eagle's nest close by, full of real young eagles.
IIt is as big as a cart-load of bavins. Tell G. that will write again before
                                               "
we start over the plains.  Oh !   happy  day
                                              !

                                                  Glen Eyrie, July 14.

  I I" cannot believe that shall see you within twenty-one days ; and
never longed so for home. I count the hours till I can cross the Great

Valley, on this side of which God has been so good to me. But, oh !

for the first rise of the eastern hills, to make me sure that the Mississippi
Iis not still between me and beloved Eversley.
                                                  am so glad you like

Westminster. Yes ! we shall rest our weary bones there for a while be

fore kind death comes, and, perhaps, see our grandchildren round

us there.* Ah ! please God that! I look forward to a blessed quiet
autumn, if God so will, having had a change of scene, which will last

me my whole life, and has taught me many things   The collec

tion of plants grows magnificent         Give my love to Wm. Harrison,

Iand tell him from me not to be afraid, and he will do splendidly ; and

that long to hear him preach in the Abbey, and to preach there myself

likewise."

   During his severe illness in Colorado, he composed these lines ;
they were the last he ever wrote :

    " ' Are you ready for your steeple-chase, Lorraine, Lorraine, Lorree?

                                         Barum, Barum, Barum, Barum, Barum, Barum, Baree.
           You're booked to ride your capping race to-day at Coulterlee,
           You're booked to ride Vindictive, for all the world to see,
          To keep him straight, and keep him first, and win the run for me.

                                         Barum, Barum, &c.'

   * His first grandchild passed away at its birth just before he himself went into the
unseen world, and happily he never knew it.

                His Last Poem.                                                   445

" She clasped her new-born baby, poor Lorraine, Lorraine, Lorree,

                                 Barum, Barum, &c.*

' I cannot ride Vindictive, as any man might see,
  And I will not ride Vindictive, with this baby on my knee ;

   lie's killed a boy, he's killed a man, and why must he kill me ? '

" ' Unless you ride Vindictive, Lorraine, Lorraine, Lorree,

     Unless you ride Vindictive to-day at Coulterlee,
     And land him safe across the brook, and win the blank for me,
     It's you may keep your baby, for you'll get no keep from me. '

" ' That husbands could be cruel,' said Lorraine, Lorraine, Lorree,
  ' That husbands could be cruel, I have known for seasons three ;

      But oh ! to ride Vindictive while a baby cries for me,
     And be killed across a fence at last for all the world to see ! '

" She mastered young Vindictive -- Oh ! the gallant lass was she,

And kept him straight and won the race as near as near could be ;

But he killed her at the brook against a pollard willow tree,

Oh ! he killed her at the brook, the brute, for all  tLhoerrweoer.ld"  to  see.
And no one but the baby cried for poor Lorraine,

   The American chapter may be fitly closed by the following

letter from Mr. John Whittier, whose poetry and whose acquaint

ance, made in Boston, had given him such especial pleasure.

" DEAR FRIEND,  BEARCAMP HOUSE, W., N. H., 8th Mo. 30, 1876.

" I am glad to learn from a letter received from an American

clergyman just returned from England that thou art engaged in pre

paring a biography of thy lamented husband. It seems to me very

* The meaning of this strange refrain is not known. Some were doubtful whether,

as no explanation was given by Mr. Kingsley, it would not be better to omit it ; but

w: h"oIMr. Froude,thought this poem one of the finestof his  ballads, on being   con
              am in favour of keeping the refrain.     The   music of the song
sulted, wrote                                                                    will

be incomplete without it : and as the words went humming through his head, the

refrain went along with them. It presses like an inexorable destiny, and makes you

....feel the iron force with which poor Lorraine was swept to her fate."

446 Charles Kingsley.

fitting that the life of such a man as Charles Kingsley should be written

by one so fully acquainted with the noble and generous personal quali

ties of the reformer, poet, and theologian. In this country his memory

is cherished by thousands, who, after long admiring the genius of the

successful author, have learned, in his brief visit, to love him as a man.
I" I shall never forget my first meeting with him in Boston.
                                                                   began,

naturally enough, to speak of his literary work, when he somewhat

abruptly turned the conversation upon the great themes of life and duty.

The solemn questions of a future life, and the final destiny of the race,

seemed pressing upon him, not so much for an answer (for he had solved
them all by simple faith in the Divine Goodness), as for the sympathetic

response of one whose views he believed to be, in a great degree, coin

Icident with his own. ' sometimes doubt and distrust myself,' he said,
' but I see some hope for everybody else. To me the Gospel of Christ
Iseems indeed Good Tidings of great joy to all people ; and think we

may safely trust the mercy which endureth for ever.' It impressed me

strongly to find the world-known author ignoring his literary fame, un

observant of the strange city whose streets he was treading for the first
time, and engaged only with ' thoughts that wander through eternity.'

I IAll saw of him left upon me the feeling that was in contact with a

profoundly earnest and reverent spirit. His heart seemed overcharged

with interest in the welfare, physical, moral, and spiritual, of his race.

I was conscious in his presence of the bracing atmosphere of a noble

Inature. He   seemed to me one of   the manliest of   men.         with  all
              to speak of the high   estimate which,    in common
   " forbear
English-speaking people, I place upon his literary life-work. My copy
of his ' Hypatia ' is worn by frequent perusal, and the echoes of his rare
and beautiful lyrics never die out of my memory. But since I have

seen him, the man seems greater than the author. With profound

respect and sympathy,     " I am truly thy friend,
       To Mrs. Kingsley.
                                         "John G. Whittier."

                CHAPTER XXX.

                                            1874-5-

                                                            AGED 55.

RETURN FROM AMERICA-- WORK AT EVERSLEY-- ILLNESS AT WESTMINSTER-
      NEW ANXIETY-- LAST SERMONS IN THE ABBEY -- LEAVES THE CLOISTERS
      FOR EVER-- LAST RETURN TO EVERSLEY--THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW
     OF DEATH -- LAST ILLNESS AND DEPARTURE -- His BURIAL SERMONS AT
       CHESTER, EVERSLEY, AND WESTMINSTER-- MEMORIALS-- LETTERS OF SYM
      PATHY --THE VICTORY OF LIFE OVER DEATH AND TIME.

  " Tis said when Schiller's death drew nigh,

      The wish possessed his mighty mind
     To wander forth wherever be
      The homes and haunts of humankind.

  " Then strayed the Poet, in his dreams,

      By Rome and Egypt's ancient graves ;
      Went up the New World's forest streams,
      Stood in the Hindoo temple caves.

  " How could he rest ? Even then he trod

     The threshold of the world unknown,
      Already from the seat of God
     A ray upon his garments shone.

  " Shone and awoke that strong desire

     For Love and Knowledge reached not here,
     Till death set free his soul of fire
     To plunge into its fitting sphere.

  " Then who shall tell how deep, how bright,

     The abyss of glory opened round ;
     How thought and feeling flowed like Light,
      Through ranks of being without bound ? "

                                                          Bryant.

' Out of Zion hath God appeared in perfect beauty ! '

                  CHAPTER XXX.

  It was sultry August weather when he returned to Eversley

from America ; there was much sickness and a great mortality

in the parish, and he was out among his people twice and three

times a day in the burning sun and dry easterly wind. His
curate, the Rev. Elis Price, was away for his well-earned holiday ;
and his great joy at being with his poor people again made him
plunge too eagerly and suddenly into work, and Sunday services,
before he had regained his strength after his illness in Colorado.
When he went up to Westminster in September, a severe attack
of congestion of the liver came on, which alarmed his friends,

and prevented his preaching in the Abbey on the first Sunday
of his residence. This attack shook him terribly, and from that

time he was unable to preach more than once a day during his

residence ; but, though altered and emaciated, he seemed recov

ering strength, when, early in October, a shadow came over his
home, in the dangerous illness of his wife, touching him in his
tenderest point, and filling him with fears for the future. When
all immediate danger was over, it was with difficulty he was
persuaded to leave her and take a few days' change of air and
scene, before his November work commenced, at Lord John
Thynne's, in Bedfordshire, and with his friend Mr. Fuller Mait-
land, in Essex* From these visits, however, he returned invigo

rated in health and spirits, and got through his sermons in the

Abbey with less difficulty. The congregations were enormous --

the sermons powerful as ever, though their preparation was an
increasing labour. The change in his appearance was observed

· At Stanstead, during this visit, the friend with whom he was conversing on the

Ideepest doctrines of                                 never forget his

folded his arms, and                                  cannot --cannot
                  Christianity said  sshaeidc, ou"ld                    look and voice, as he
                  bowing his head,                                      live without the Man

Christ Jesus."                                                          gG
         vol. n.

450 Charles Kings ley.

by many. " I went back," said an old correspondent, who had

gone to hear him preach in Westminster Abbey, " sad at the
remembrance of the bent back and shrunken figure, and while

hoping the weakness was but temporary, I grieved to see one

who had carried himself so nobly, broken down by illness."

   His sermon on All Saints' Day will never be forgotten by
those who heard it. It was like a note of preparation for the

life of eternal blessedness in the vision of God upon which he

was so soon to enter. It was a revealing too of his own deepest

belief as to what that blessedness meant, with back glances into

the darker passages and bitter struggles of his own earthly life

and warfare with evil.

" ' Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and
                                                                                a                and  is
                                                                                    '
to come!' Ah! what gospel lies within those words! A gospel?
                      a                                                               ?
Ay, you will receive    it,    the root of all other possible gospels, and
I                                                                                        is,
good news for all created beings. What gospel and what an ever
        if                                              It        it
lasting fount of comfort Truly of those words                                 true, Blessed are
                      !                                     is a   I if I is !

they who, going through the vale of misery, find therein well, and the

pools are filled with water.' Know you not what mean Happier
perhaps are you -- the young at least among you -- you do not know.

But some of you must know too well.                               to them speak.
" Were you never not merely puzzled -- all thinking men are that --

but crushed and sickened, at moments, by the mystery of evil Sick                      ?
ened by the follies, the failures, the ferocities, the foulnesses of man

kind, for ages upon ages past? sickened by the sins of the unholy
ma"nyA--ndsichkaevneedy,oualnaesverbycrtiehde
                                               imperfections of the  holiest few
                                               in your hearts with   longing, almost
            ?                                                                                    with

                 !
                                         ?

                                     is

                                                                   ?
                                                                                              ?
impatience, 'Surely, surely, there an ideal Holy One somewhere --or

else, how could have arisen in my mind the conception, however faint,

of an ideal holiness But where oh where Not in the world around

strewn with unholiness. Not in myself, unholy too, without and
within--and calling myself sometimes the very worst company of all

the bad company meet, because                     ? it  is  the only company, that com
            if I I
pany, from which cannot escape. Oh                      !         there Holy One, whom
                                                                  a                                   I
                                                            is           is
                                                                                    ?
may contemplate with utter delight and so, where He Oh that
                                                            if

might behold, but for moment, His perfect beauty, even though,
                         it a
as in the fable of Semele of old, the lightning of His glance were'

death.' Nay, more, has         not happened to some here, to clergyman,

....lawyer, physician, perhaps, alas to some pure-minded, noble-hearted!

woman -- to be brought in contact with                            some case of human

                             The One Ideal.                                    451

folly, baseness, foulness --which, however much their soul revolts from

    they must handle, they must toil over, in hopes that that whichit,           is is
crooked may be made somewhat straight -- till their whole souls were
distempered, all but degraded, by the continual sight of sin, till their
eyes seemed full of nothing but the dance of death, and their ears of
the gibbering of madmen, and their nostrils with the odours of the
charnel house, and they longed for one breath of pure air, one gleam of

pure light, one strain of pure music, to wash their spirits clean from

those foul elements into which their duty had thrust them down

perforce     ?

   " And then, oh, then -- has there not come to such          one -- know
             has come -- that for which his spirit was athirst -- the very breathis a'/
that  it

of pure air, the very gleam of pure light, the very strain of pure music --
for the very music of the spheres -- in those same words, Holy,
     it
         is

holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and and to come and' is,
                                                                   ;

he has answered with         flush of keenest joy -- Yes, whatever else
                is Holy One-- spotless and undefiled, serene and self-con
unholy, there       a

                       II a
tained. Whatever else cannot trust, there One whom can trust
                                             is                II
                                                  is
utterly. Whatever else am dissatisfied with, there One whom can con

template with utter satisfaction, and bathe my stained soul in that eternal

fount of purity. And who He Who, save the Cause and Maker,is
                                 ;?
and Ruler of all things, past, present, and to comeis ?  Ah, gospel of all
gospels -- that God Himself, the Almighty God, the eternal realiza

tion of all that and all mankind, in our purest and our noblest
                is I
moments, have ever dreamed concerning the true, the beautiful, andI

the good. Even though He slay me, the unholy, yet will trust in
Him. For He holy, holy, holy and can do nothing to me or any
creature, save that He ought. For He has created all things, and for

His pleasure they are and were created.' Whosoever has entered,

though but for moment, however faintly, partially, stupidly, into that
                a

thought of thoughts, has entered in so far into the communion of the

elect, and has had his share in the Everlasting All Saints' Day which          is

....in heaven. He has been, though but for moment, in harmony with
the polity of the living God            a

                                                    it

                                                            is
                                                                           is
                                        and with the spirits of just men

made perfect, and with all past, present, and to come, in this and all

other worlds, of whom  it      written, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for'
                           is

theirs the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they who hunger and
      is is
thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled, for great                their

reward in heaven. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see

God. Blessed are they who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for
great their reward in heaven.' Great indeed -- for
                                                         no less than the

very beatific vision, to contemplate and adore. That supreme moral

452 Charies Kingsley.

beauty, of which all earthly beauty, all nature, all art, all poetry, all music,
are but phantoms and parables, hints and hopes, dim reflected rays of
the clear light of that everlasting day, of which it is written-- that the
city had no need of the sun nor of the moon to shine in it ; for the

glory of God doth lighten and the Lamb the light thereof."
          ;

                    is

                              !

                         it,
                                                        is
                                                                             a
   Of that very beatific vision he spoke once more three days
before his death when, conscious of no human presence in the

night, he was heard by his daughter to cry out, in clear voice,
" How beautiful God     " He little thought when preaching this

sermon that in less than three months' time he too should

himself be entering the Holy of Holies.

One of the last letters he ever wrote was on November 22nd,

to Mr. Shone, an active member of the Chester Natural Science

Society  :

                                        I

                                                                                 ill
" My dear young friend," he says, " have been too and too busy,

having the affairs of this great place upon me,* to read or acknowledge

your address ('The Tendency of Modern Thought,' an Inauguralit
Address to the Chester Mutual Improvement Society) till now. And
now say -- that have read with deep pleasure. You are-- roughly
speaking -- as right as the church.' You see the broad truth, and you
I

         it '
               in

             I
have put  very manly words, and illustrated                                    by quotations and
                                                                     I

                                                                           it
metaphors which are sound and to the point.                          don't class you among

my scholars, because saw in you from the first an original tendency
                    II
towards truth, which    had not to awaken but only to encourage.
Only -- don't lose hold of that belief in the old faith, which more
                                                                                      I is
precious to my reason, as well as to my moral sense, the older grow,

and have to do with sorrows and difficulties which you, in your youth
and strength, do not know yet -- and God grant you never may know.

Be true to your own manly words and in due time God will pay you all,
is

                                                                  :
for He very just and very merciful. Excuse bad writing as have
                                                                                      I

                                                                                                      a

lame hand, and give my love to all the dear Chester people --your
Ifparents included.
                      you come to London come to see us."

   On Advent Sunday, November 29, he preached his last ser

mon in the Abbey, with intense fervour. It was the winding-up

of his work in the Abbey, but neither he nor those who hung

upon his words thought that was the winding-up of his public
                            it

                                                                                 a
   * Owing to the Dean of Westminster having been detained by great anxiety in Paris,
the work of the Abbey devolved exclusively on the Canon in residence.

The Coming of Christ --Last Words in the Abbey. 453

ministrations and the last time he would enter the pulpit. The

text was Luke xix. 41, Christ weeping over Jerusalem. A

great storm was raging over London that afternoon, and the

gale seemed almost to shake the Abbey, which made the ser
vice to one who was keenly sensitive, as he was, to all changes of

weather, especially those which would affect the fate of ships at

sea, most exciting.
    The sermon was a characteristic one. " Advent," he said,

" should be a season not merely of warning, awe, repentance, but
a season of trust and hope and content." He sketched the
leading features of his past teaching in the Abbey -- dwelling
on the Kingship and Divine Government of Christ over races,

nations, individuals --His infinite rigour and yet infinite tender
ness of pity -- the divine humanity which possessed Him as he

wept over the doomed city, and cried out, " How often would I

have gathered thee as a hen gathereth her chickens under her

wings," and closed with these words :

" And what is true of nations and of institutions --is it not true of

ind"ivAidhu--alsa,ndofiseatchherseepaaryaotuenghumliafen  brother of the Son of Man ?   young
                                                          ruined by its own folly -- a
heart broken by its own wilfulness -- an elder man or woman too,

who is fast losing the finer instincts, the nobler aims, of youth in the

restlessness of covetousness, of fashion, of ambition? Is there one

such poor soul over whom Christ does not grieve ? To whom, at some
supreme crisis of their lives, He does not whisper -- ' Ah, beautiful
organism-- thou, too, art a thought of God -- thou, too, if thou wert but
                                                                      of God I            Ah!
in harmony     with  thyself and God, a microcosmic       in  City                      --the
that thou     hadst   known-- even thou-- at least              this   thy day

things which belong to thy peace ? '                                  ' But now they

   " Shall I go on ? shall I add to the words of doom ?

are hid from thine eyes ? Thou hast gambled with thine own destiny

too long. Thou hast fixed thy habits. Thou hast formed thy charac

ter. It is too late to mend. Thou art left henceforth to the perpetual
unrest which thou hast chosen -- to thine own lusts and passions ; and

the  angels   of peace   depart from thy doomed heart, as       they   did               in  the
old  legend,   from the   doomed Temple of Jerusalem--        sighing  --'              Let   us

go hence '-- shall I say that ? God forbid-- it is not for me to finish
the sentence -- or to pronounce the doom of any soul.
" But it is for me to say -- as I say now to each of you -- Oh that you

454 Charles Kingsley.

each may know the time of your visitation --and may listen to the voice

of Christ, whenever and however He may whisper to you, ' Come unto

Me, thou weary and heavy-laden heart, and I will give thee Rest.'

   " He may come to you in many ways. In ways in which the world

would never recognize Him -- in which perhaps neither you nor I shall
recognize Him ; but it will be enough, I hope, if we but hear His

message, and obey His gracious inspiration, let Him speak through

whatever means He will.
   " He may come to us, by some crisis in our life, either for sorrow or

for bliss. He may come to us by a great failure ; by a great disap
pointment -- to teach the wilful and ambitious soul, that not in that

direction lies the path of peace. He may come in some unexpected

happiness to teach that same soul that He is able and willing to give

abundantly beyond all that we can ask or think. He may come to us,

when our thoughts are cleaving to the ground, and ready to grow

earthy of the earth --through noble poetry, noble music, noble art --

through aught which awakens once more in us the instinct of the true,

the beautiful, and the good. He may come to us when our souls are
restless and weary, through the repose of Nature -- the repose of the

lonely snow-peak, and of the sleeping forest, of the clouds of sunset and

of the summer sea, and whisper Peace. Or He may come, as He may
come this very night to many a gallant soul --not in the repose of
Nature, but in her rage --in howling storm, and blinding foam, and
ruthless rocks, and whelming surge-- and whisper to them even so-- as
the sea swallows all of them which it can take--of calm beyond, which

this  world cannot give  and cannot take away.       and  prejudiced,  with that
      He may come to     us when we are fierce
   "

still small voice -- so sweet and yet so keen. ' Understand those who

misunderstand thee. Be fair to those who are unfair to thee. Be just

and merciful to those whom thou wouldst like to hate. Forgive and

thou shalt be forgiven ; for with what measure thou measurest unto

others, it shall be measured to thee again.' He comes to us surely,

when we are selfish and luxurious, in every sufferer who needs our help,

Ifand says, ' you do good to one of these, my brethren, you do it

unto   Me.' .   surely  does  Christ  come  to  us,  and  often  most happily,  and
      But most
   "

most clearly does He speak to us --in the face of a little child, fresh out of

heaven. Ah, let us take heed that we despise not one of these little ones,
lest we despise our Lord Himself. For as often as we enter into com

munion with little children, so often does Christ come to us. So often,

as in Judaea of old, does He take a little child and set him in the midst
of us, that from its simplicity, docility, and trust -- the restless, the

The Valley of the Shadow of Death.                                           455

mutinous, and the ambitious may learn the things which belong to
their peace -- so often does He say to us, ' Except ye be changed and

become as this little child, ye shall in no wise enter into the Kingdom

of Heaven. Take my yoke upon you and learn of Me. For I am

meek and lowly of heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls.'

"And therefore let us say, in utter faith, 'Come as Thou
seest best -- but in whatsoever  way thou  comest-- even so
Lord Jesus.' "                                                               come,

As soon as the Abbey service was over, he came home much
....exhausted, and went straight up to his wife's room. " And now
my work here is done, thank God ! and      I finished with

your favourite text."

The next day he dined at the Deanery to meet Dr. Caird,

before attending his lecture in the Abbey at the special evening

service. The night was damp, and coming out into the cold

cloister he caught a fresh cold and coughed all through the

night ; but he made light of for he could think of nothing
but the joy of returning with his wife to Eversley for Christmas
;

                                    it,
and the quiet winter's work. And on the 3rd of December, full
of spirits and thankfulness, he left the cloisters for ever, and took

her with tenderest care to Eversley. But his happiness was

shortlived the journey down had had serious consequences for
her, and that night the Angel of Death for the first time for

thirty-one years seemed hovering over the little rectory. He

had been engaged by the Queen's command to go to Windsor
Castle the following Saturday for two days. Telegrams were

sent there, and to his children who were absent. Still he could

not believe there was danger, till he was told that there was no
hope, and then --" My own death-warrant was signed," he said,
" with those words." Children and friends collected round him,

while he gathered himself up with noble self-repression to give
comfort where was needed. His ministrations in the sick
if

                      it it

                                                         a
                                                                          a

                                                                        if
room showed the intensity of his own faith, as he strengthened

the weak, encouraged the fearful, and in the light of the Cross

of Christ and the love of God, spoke of an eternal reunion and

the indestructibility of that married love which, genuine on

earth, can only be severed for a brief moment. When asked

he thought cowardly for poor soul, who had been encom

456 Charles Kingsley.

passed with such protecting love as his, to tremble on the brink
of the dark river which all must cross alone -- to shrink from
leaving husband, children --the love that had made life blessed
and real and full for so many years --and to go alone into the
            " Cowardly    "             " Don't you think I would
unknown  :                   he  said.
                        !

rather some one put a pistol to my head than lie on that bed

there waiting ? But, --" he added, " it is not darkness you are going

to, for God is light. It is not lonely, for Christ is with you. It

is not an unknown country, for Christ is there." And when
the dreary interval before reunion was mentioned, he spoke of

the possibility of all consciousness of time being so abolished

that what would be long years to the survivor might be only

a moment to the separated soul that had passed over the River

of Death. And so, with words of strong consolation and hope,

with daily prayer and reading from the Gospel and Epistles of

St. John and the Psalms, he preached peace and forgiveness till

all was calm ; and dwelling on the borderland together for weeks
of deep communion, every chapter of the past was gone over

once more, and "life was all re-touched again," --favourite poetry

was read for the last time, Wordsworth's " Ode to Immortality,"

Milton's magnificent Ode to "Time" again and again, Matthew
Arnold's " Buried Life," and certain passages from Shakspeare.

Once more he himself administered the Holy Communion to his

wife, children, and servants ; and once again, before he himself
lay down to die, he received it with them from the hands of Mr.

Harrison. But though his own iron will and utter submission
to the Will of God enabled him to be outwardly calm in the

sick room, and even to speak there of the lonely years which

he feared were before him, of the grave where, he said, he

would allow no one but himself to do the last office, where he

would place the three Latin words in which the life of his life,
past, present, and future, are gathered up, --the charm of life

for him was over, and he spoke the truth when he said his
" heart was broken," for so it was. He was ill himself, and

became careless of his own health, reckless of cold and snow ;
his cough became bronchitic. On the 28th of December he

took to his bed, and pneumonia, with its terrible symptoms,
came on rapidly. He had promised his wife to " fight for

                       Waiting for Death.                               457

life " for his children's sake, and he did so for a time ; but the
enemy, or, as he would have said himself, " kindly Death," was

too strong for him, and in a few weeks the battle was over and

he was at rest. The weather was bitter, and he had been warned

that his recovery depended on the same temperature being kept

up in his room, and on his never leaving it ; but one day he

leapt out of bed, came into his wife's room for a few moments,
and taking her hand in his, he said, "This is heaven, don't
         "
speak       but, after a short  silence, a severe fit of coughing came on,
       ;
he could say no more, and they never met again. When told
that another move would be fatal, he replied, " We have said all
                                                          "
to  each    other, we  have     made  up  our accounts       and often  re
                                                        ;

peated, " It is all right, all as it should be." For a few days a

correspondence was kept up in pencil ; and on December 30
he wrote of this " terrible trial," the   fiery trial of separation,
to both so bitter at such a moment.
                                          " But," he adds, " I am
                                                             I know
somewhat past fretting--almost past feeling
it must be right, because it is so strange and painful." Again,
on New Year's Eve, " I am much better in all ways. Thank

God for the gleam of sun and the frost on the window-pane.
. . . ." And again, in the last letter he ever wrote, on

January 3rd, a bright morning, the first Sunday in the year :
" Ah ! what a good omen for the coming year -- this lovely

Sunday morning. May it mean light and peace and blessing
in both worlds for us all ! . . . ." But, to use his own words,

it then became " too painful, too tantalising," and the letters

ceased.

   He was now kept constantly under the influence of opiates
to quiet the cough and keep off haemorrhage, and his dreams
were always of his travels in the West Indies, the Rocky
Mountains, and California. These scenes he would describe

night after night to the trained nurse from Westminster
Hospital who sat up with him, and whose unwearied care and
skill can never be forgotten. He would tell her, too, of the
travels of his eldest son in America, of whom he continually

spoke with love and pride, and to whose success in life he so
eagerly looked. His own physical experiences were very singular
to him, for he sat as a spectator outside himself, and said if he

458 Charles Kingsley.

recovered he would write a book about them. Early in January,

when the alarming symptoms came on, his devoted medical

attendant, Mr. Heynes, of Eversley, who was day and night

at the Rectory, begged for further advice ; and Dr. Hawkesley,
who twice came down from London, did not despair of Mr.
Kingsley ; he said he never saw a " more splendid fight for life,"

and was struck with his brilliancy in describing his symptoms.

He spoke but little latterly, and the fear of exciting him made

those around afraid of telling him anything that would rouse

him to the sense of his great loneliness. But one morning

before his condition became hopeless, when some little letters,

enclosing some drawings to amuse him, had come from the

young Princes at Sandringham, who loved him well and were

sorry for his illness and his grief, his doctor said they might be

shown him. They touched him deeply ; and his messages in

answer were among the last he sent. On Sunday, the i7th, he

sat up for a few moments, where he could see from the bed

room window which looked into the churchyard his dear people
go into church, and spoke of their " goodness " to him and how

he loved them. He reiterated the words, " It is all right." " All
under rule'.' One morning early he asked the nurse, if it was

light, to open the shutters, for he loved light. It was still dark.
" Ah ! well," he said, " the light is good and the darkness is
good --it is all good."
scious of the lapse of    From   sleeping so much he was          uncon
                         time.                                    bed ? "
                                " How long have I been in
he said one day, and on being told three weeks, he said, " It does
                      Ah, I live in fairyland,  or I                    "
not seem three days.                                  should  go  mad
                                                                       !

On the 2Oth of January the Prince of Wales, whose regard

and affection had never failed for fourteen years, requested Sir

William Gull to go down to Eversley. He, too, thought recovery
possible ; but immediately after his visit haemorrhage returned --
the end seemed near, and then the full truth-- and not a painful

one --burst upon him. " Heynes," he said, " I am hit ; this last

shot has told --did F. tell you about the funeral ? We settled it

all, " and then he repeated, in the very words used to himself,

the arrangements that had been made in view of the event he

had been dreading, which God mercifully spared him ; and after
mentioning the names of the bearers selected (labouring men

Rest at Last.  459

 endeared by old parish memories)," Let there be no paraphernalia,
 no hatbands, no carriages . . . ." He was calm and content. He
 had no need to put his mind into a fresh attitude, for his life
 had long been "hid with Christ in God." Twenty-five years
before, in speaking of a friend who did not accept Christianity,

he had said, " The more I see of him, the more I learn to
love the true doctrines of the Gospel, because I see more and

 more that only in faith and love to the Incarnate God, our
 Saviour, can the cleverest, as well as the simplest, find the Peace

of God which passes understanding." In this faith he had lived --
and as he had lived, so he died -- humble, confident, unbewildered.
That night he was heard murmuring, " No more fighting--no

more fighting ; " and then followed intense, earnest prayers, which

were his habit when alone, --too sacred for any listener. Yes,

his warfare was accomplished, he had fought the good fight, and
never grounded his arms till God took them mercifully out of his
brave hands and gave him rest.

   It was on one of those, his last nights on earth, his daughter

heard him exclaim, " How beautiful God is." For the last two

days before he departed, he asked no questions, and sent no
messages to his wife, thinking all was over, and hoping that

at last the dream of his life was fulfilled of their dying together ;
and under this impression, it is thought, when the faithful nurse
who had been with his children since their birth, left his wife for

a moment to come to her dying master the day before he went,
" Ah," he said, " dear nurse, and I, too, am come to an end ; it is
all right-- all as it should be" and closed his eyes again. On that

same morning from his bed he had looked out over the beloved
glebe once more. The snow, which had been deep for weeks, had
cleared a little, the grass of the pasture was green, and he said,
" Tell Grenville (his youngest son, who had just left him after

helping to arrange his bed) I am looking at the most beautiful
scene I ever saw," adding some words of love and approval, that

were scarcely audible.
   The last morning, at five o'clock, just after his eldest daughter,

who, with his medical man and Mr. Harrison, had sat up all night,

had left him, and he thought himself alone, he was heard, in a
clear voice, repeating the words of the Burial Service :

460 diarles Kingsley.

" Thou knowest, O Lord, the secrets of our hearts ; shut not Thy

merciful ears to our prayer, but spare us, O Lord most holy, O God

formost mighty, O holy and merciful Saviour, Thou most worthy Judge
Eternal, suffer us not, at our last hour,  any pains of death, to fall

from Thee."

   He turned on his side after this, and never spoke again, and
before midday, on the 23rd of January -- without sigh or
struggle --breathed his last breath, so gently that his eldest
daughter and the family nurse, who were watching him, could
scarcely tell that all was over. Twenty years before, and how
often since, he had expressed his longing for that moment : " God

forgive me if I am wrong, but I look forward to it with an intense

and reverent curiosity." And now the great secret that he had
longed to know was revealed to him, and he was satisfied.

  " Never shall I forget," said Max Miiller, " the moment when for the
last time I gazed upon the manly features of Charles Kingsley, features

which death had rendered calm, grand, sublime. The constant struggle
that in life seemed to allow no rest to his expression, the spirit, like a
caged lion, shaking the bars of his prison, the mind striving for utterance,
the soul wearying for loving response -- all that was over. There re
mained only the satisfied expression of triumph and peace, as of a
soldier who had fought a good fight, and who, while sinking into the
stillness of the slumber of death, listens to the distant sounds of music
and to the shouts of victory. One saw the ideal man, as Nature had
meant him to be, and one felt that there is no greater sculptor than

Death.

   " As one looked on that marble statue which only some weeks ago

had so warmly pressed one's hand, his whole life flashed through one's
thoughts. One remembered the young Curate and the ' Saint's Tragedy';
the Chartist parson and ' Alton Locke' ; the happy poet and the ' Sands

of Dee ' ; the brilliant novel-writer and ' Hypatia' and ' Westward Ho' ;
the Rector of Eversley and his 'Village Sermons'; the beloved pro
fessor at Cambridge, the busy Canon at Chester, the powerful preacher
at Westminster Abbey. One thought of him by the Berkshire chalk

streams, and on the Devonshire coast, watching the beauty and wisdom

of Nature, reading her solemn lessons, chuckling too over her inimitable
fun. One saw him in town-alleys, preaching the Gospel of godliness
and cleanliness, while smoking his pipe with soldiers and navvies. One
heard him in drawing-rooms, listened to with patient silence, till one of

                     Answered Prayers.                               461

his vigorous or quaint speeches bounded forth, never to be forgotten.
How children delighted in him ! How young wild men believed in

him, and obeyed him too ! How women were captivated by his

chiv"aAlrlyl,   older men by his genuine humility and  sympathy !   looked  at
               that was now passing away -- was gone.   But as one

him for the last time on earth, one felt that greater than the curate, the

poet, the professor, the canon, had been the man himself, with his

warm heart, his honest purposes, his trust in his friends, his readiness

to   spend himself,  his chivalry and humility,  worthy of a better  age. Of
all  this the world
                     knew little ;--yet few men   excited wider and   stronger

sympathies."*

   " As he lay," said Dean Stanley, " the other day, cold in death, like
the stone effigy of an ancient warrior, the 'fitful fever' of life gone, the
strength of immortality left, resting as if after the toil of a hundred

battles, this was himself idealized. From those mute lips there seemed

to issue once more the living words with which he spoke ten years ago,
before one who honoured him with an unswerving faithfulness to the

end. 'Some say' -- thus he spoke in the Chapel of Windsor Castle --
' some say that the age of chivalry is past, that the spirit of romance is
dead. The age of chivalry is never past, so long as there is a wrong
left unredressed on earth, or a man or woman left to say, I will redress
that wrong, or spend my life in the attempt. The age of chivalry is

never past so long as we have faith enough to say, God will help me to

redress that wrong, or if not me, He will help those that come after

tme, for His eternal will is to overcome evil with good.' " . . . .

   On the afternoon of his departure a telegram was sent to
Chester, where the daily bulletins had been watched for so
eagerly, " Canon Kingsley peacefully expired ; " and on the
Sunday morning the tolling of the Cathedral bell, and the
omission of his name in the daily prayer for the sick, confirmed
the worst fears of many loving hearts. For many weeks the
prayers of the congregation had been asked for " Charles and
Fanny Kingsley." Not only in Chester Cathedral and West

minster Abbey, but in other churches and chapels, at prayer-
meetings too, in London, Sheffield, and elsewhere, his life was
prayed for, and God, in His great mercy, had answered by giving
him immortal life. Canon Hillyard, who was the preacher for

                  * Max Miiller -- Preface to "The Roman and the Teuton."

              t Dean Stanley. -- Sermon in Westminster Abbey.

462 Charles Kingsley.

the day, after explaining his text, " Thy will be done," with deep

feeling, said :

I" Here, friends, feel myself constrained to break off, for within the

last few hours there has fallen such a blow upon the hearts of many in

this city, that it seems to recall me to the passive sense of the words,
' Thy will be done.' Within a few hours there has passed away from

Iearth the spirit of one who often has stood where am standing --of

one who had in a singular manner drawn towards himself (and that in
no mean spirit, from no mere love of popularity, but to elevate, to

educate, and to make them conscious of their nobler faculties) the hearts
of a veritable multitude in Chester. Short as was his sojourn among

you, he had done a great work                     That active life, that busy

brain, how did it end? There is something inexpressibly soothing in

the words which announced his end. Not in the tumult of a crowd,

not in any of those distant lands which he loved to travel, but from his

own quiet home, came the message that he had 'peacefully expired.'
....We can thank God for this --he we feel sure
                                                  thanked  God for it.
' Peacefully expired !' Who will not say, ' May   my last  end be like
his.'"

   As soon as the news reached Westminster, a telegram from
the Dean brought these words to his children : " Bear up under
the blow. You will perhaps choose Eversley, but the Abbey is

open to the Canon and the Poet."

                                DEANERY, WESTMINSTER, Jan. 24, 1875.
I" cannot let the day pass without a word in addition to the brief
I Itele"gIrtamseemssenbtutlasat
 night.                though   it is many, since        first saw your
few years,

dear father at Oxford, and again still fewer, though that is also long ago,
since I for the first time was at Eversley -- and our meetings have been
Ibut few and far between -- but always felt that he was a faithful friend,
Iand a brave champion for much and many that loved ; and when he
Iwas transplanted among us, my dear wife and both looked forward to
                       these meetings --to
the multiplication of  it otherwise. He     long  years  of labour  together.
   " God has ordered                        had   done   his work.
                                                                      He had

earned his rest. You had seen    all that was highest and best in   him.  had
   " The short stay amongst us  here had given him a new life,      and

endeared him to a new world. He has gone in the fulness of his
strength, like one of his own tropical suns--no twilight -- no fading. Be
of good heart, for you have much for which to be thankful.

                Honoured in his Death.                                     463

I" ventured to say something about the place of burial. It is far the
                (from what I have heard
most probable                            that  he  had  --samido)stthnaat tuErvael rstlheayt
will have been  the place chosen by him  and   by  you
Iit should be so. Had his days ended here, then should have pressed

that the right which we have acquired in him should have the chief

claim, and you know that should the other not be paramount, here we

Ishould be too glad to lay him, not by that official right which try to

discourage, but by the natural inheritance of genius and character. Any

way, let me know the day and hour of the funeral. If none nearer or

more suitable should be thought of, I, as the chief of his last earthly

sphere, would ask to render the last honours.
                                                       " Yours sincerely,

                                                           "A. P. Stanley."

    There was no hesitation with those who knew his own feelings,
and at Eversley he was buried on the 28th of January ; no one

was invited to come, but early in the day the churchyard was

full. There had been deep snow and bitter cold for many weeks.
But the day was kindly, soft and mild, with now and then gleams
of sunshine. He was carried to the grave by villagers who had

known, loved, and trusted him for years. The coffin, covered
with flowers, was met at the garden-gate by the Bishop of Win
chester, the Dean of Westminster, Mr. Powles, his oldest friend,
his two last curates, Rev. William Harrison, and Rev. Elis
Price, and his churchwarden Sir William Cope, and was laid

before the altar, where for thirty-two years he had ministered so
faithfully, before the service was finished at the grave. Roman
Catholic and Protestant, Churchman and Dissenter, American

and English, met at that grave ; every profession, every rank,
every school of thought, was represented. Soldiers* and sailors
were there ; among them three Victoria Cross officers, men whom
he had loved, and who honoured him. The Master of Fox

Hounds, with the huntsman and the whip, were there also, and
from his beloved Chester came the Dean and a deputation from

Ithe Natural Science Society he had founded.! " have been

   * Gen. Sir William Codrington ; Col. Sir Charles Russell, V.C. ;  Col.  Alfred
Jones, V.C. ; Col. Evelyn Wood, V.C. ; Captain F. Maurice, &c.

   * Dr. Stolterforth, Mr. Shepheard, Mr. Manning, Mr. Griffith.

464 Charles Kingsley.

at many state funerals," said a naval officer who was present,

" but never did I see such a sight as Charles Kingsley 's."

   " Who," says Max Miiller, " can forget that funeral on the 28th of
January, 1875, and the large sad throng that gathered round his grave?
There was the representative of the Prince of Wales, and, close by, the
gipsies of Eversley Common, who used to call him their 'Patrico-rai'
(their Priest King). There was the squire of his village, and the
labourers young and old, to whom he had been a friend and a father.
There were governors of distant colonies,* officers, and sailors, the bishop
of his diocese, and the dean of his abbey ; there were the leading Non
conformists of the neighbourhood, and his own devoted curates, peers
and members of the House of Commons, authors and publishers, and
the huntsmen in pink ; and, outside the churchyard, the horses and
the hounds, for though as good a clergyman as any, Charles Kingsley
had been a good sportsman, and had taken in his life many a fence as
bravely as he took the last fence of all, without fear or trembling. All

that he had loved and all that had loved him was there, and few eyes
were dry when he was laid in his own gravel bed, the old trees, which
he had planted and cared for, waving their branches to him for the last
time, and the grey sunny sky looking down with calm pity on the

deserted rectory, and on the short joys and the shorter sufferings of

mortal man.

   " All went home feeling that life was poorer, and every one knew

that he had lost a friend who had been, in some peculiar sense, his
own. Charles Kingsley will be missed in England, in the English
colonies, in America, where he spent his last happy year ; aye, wherever
Saxon speech and Saxon thought is understood. He will be mourned
for, yearned for, in every place in which he passed some days of his

Ibusy life. As to myself, feel as if another cable had snapped that

tied me to this hospitable shore."

   Such was the scene at Eversley, while at Chester and at West
minster the cathedral bell tolled for the well-beloved Canon,
whom they should see no more.

   The Sunday following his funeral, sermons on his life and
death were numerous. Dean Stanley in London, Dean Howson

          * His Excellency Sir Arthur Gordon ; Col. Sir Thomas Gore Browne.

The Pulpit in Eversley Church.                                  465

at Chester, Churchmen, Baptists, and other Nonconformists, both

in London, Chester, and elsewhere, while his own pulpit at
Eversley Church was occupied by Sir William Cope in the
morning, and by his devoted and attached curate, the Rev. Elis

Price, in the afternoon.

  I" never," said Sir William Cope, " thought to preach another sermon ;

but by the freshly covered grave of a friend all scruples and all hesita
tion vanish. It is a sad, sad task . . . ' Out of the abundance of the heart

Ithe mouth speaketh ;' and if abounding sorrow and earnest love can give

me words will strive to address myself to the thoughts of your hearts."

   And then, after speaking of " our loved Rector's " firm hold
on the doctrines of the sacraments and creeds, he adds :

" No doubt other men hold and have held these doctrines as strongly,

and taught them as plainly; but he, by belonging to no party, and by his

fairness and liberal charity to those who differed with him, had an influence

on many men and many minds which others have not, and therefore had

an opportunity and a power of impressing those doctrines on many who

would not otherwise have listened to them, or received them. There

Ifore say, he occupied a place, a most important place, in the Church
Iof England, which, as far as know, no other man fills, and which his

death has left void           But whatever his loss to the Church,
much greater is his loss to us--whatever he was to others, much more

was he to us ; for he was the teacher and friend of every one of us. Of

every one even of those who would none of his counsel, and despised

his reproof; even to them he was the earnest affectionate friend. . . .

We have known more of him than the most constant reader of his

works, or the most ardent admirer of his talents. For until lately that

the duties of well-deserved appointments took him away, he was always

among us, and Sunday after Sunday we received his teaching. You
                              Brethren, I have heard
know how we hung on his lips
Imany preachers, but never heard one whose hearty yet quiet manner

appealed more earnestly to the mind and heart ; or who had in so great

a degree the power of explaining the truths of Scripture, and enforcing

the practice of its precepts in such plain simple words."*

At Westminster Abbey Dean Stanley spoke of that

" One brilliant light which shone in our dim atmosphere, and has

  * " Living unto God." A Sermon preached at Eversley, on Jan.  31, 1875, by
                                                                  nH
Sir William H. Cope, Bart. (Basil Montagu Pickering, London.)
      VOL. II.

466 Charles Kingsley.

been suddenly extinguished, and which cannot be allowed thus to pass

aawmaoyngwsitthouust--awskhiantg  ourselves  what we  have gained by its  brief presence
                                  we have    lost by  its disappearance.    Others have

spoken and will long speak on both sides of the Atlantic of the gifted

poet whose dust might well have mingled with the dust of his brother

poets in these walls. Others will speak, in nearer circles, of the close

affection which bound the pastor to his flock, and the friend to his

friend, and the father to his children, and the husband to the wife, in

that romantic home which is now for ever identified with his name, and

beside which he rests, beneath the yews which he planted with his own

hands, and the great fir-trees that fold their protecting arms above.

But that which alone is fitting to urge from this place is the moral and
religious significance of the remarkable career which has left a spot

void, as if where a rare plant has grown, which no art can reproduce,

but of which the peculiar fragrance still lingers with those who have
ever come within its reach. To the vast congregations which hung
upon his lips in this church -- to the wide world which looked eagerly
for the utterances that no more will come from that burning spirit--to

Ithe loving friends who mourn for the extinction of a heart of fire, for

the sudden relaxation of the grasp of a hand of iron-- would fain

recall some of those higher strains which amid manifold imperfections,

acknowledged by none more freely than himself, placed him unquestion
ably amongst the conspicuous teachers of his age, and gave to his voice

the power of reaching souls to which other preachers and teachers

addressed themselves in vain.

   " It has seemed to me that there were three main lessons of his cha

racter and career which may be summed up in the three parts of the
                     --'
apostolic farewell                Watch  ye ;    quit you  like men and be strong :  stand
fast in the faith.'  "
                                  ...        ."

   After a masterly enumeration of his works, and the principle
which was the keynote to each, much of which has been already
quoted in these volumes, the Dean goes on :

I" And this leads me to that clause in the apostle's warning, which
Ihave kept for last, 'Stand fast in the faith.'
                                                           have hitherto spoken of

our lost friend in his natural God-given genius, not in his professional

or pastoral functions. He was what he was, not by virtue of his

office, but by virtue of what God made him in himself. He was,

we might almost say, a layman in the guise or disguise, and

sometimes hardly in the guise, of a clergyman --fishing with the

fisherman, hunting with the huntsman, able to hold his own in

The Pulpit in the Abbey.                 467

tent and camp, with courtier or with soldier; an example that a
genial companion may be a Christian gentleman -- that a Christian
clergyman need not be a member of a separate caste, and a
stranger to the common interests of his countrymen. Yet human,

genial layman as he was, he still was not the less --nay he was ten
times more --a pastor than he would have been had he shut himself out
from the haunts and walks of man. He was sent by Providence as it
were, ' far off to the Gentiles,' --far off, not to other lands, or other races
of mankind, but far off from the usual sphere of minister or priest, to
'fresh woods and -pastures new,' to find fresh worlds of thought, and

wild tracts of character, in which he found a response for himself,

because he gave a response to them. Witness the unknown friends

that from far or near sought the wise guidance of the unknown coun

sellor, who declared to them the unknown God after whom they were
seeking if haply they might find Him. Witness the tears of the rough

peasants of Hampshire, as they crowded round the open grave, to look
for the last time on the friend of thirty years, with whom were mingled

the hunter in his red coat and the wild gipsy wanderers, mourning for

the face that they should no more see in forest or on heath. Witness
the grief which fills the old cathedral town of my own native county
and of the native county of his ancestors, beside the sands of his own

Dee, for the recollection of the energy with which he gathered the youth

of Chester round him for teachings of science and religion. Witness

the grief which has overcast this venerable church, which in two short

years he had made his own, and in which all felt that he had found a
place worthy of himself, and that in him the place had found an occu

pant worthy to fill it. In these days of rebuke and faintheartedness,
when so many gifted spirits shrink from embarking on one of the noblest,
because the most sacred of all professions, it ought to be an encourage

ment to be reminded that this fierce poet and masculine reformer

deemed his energies not mis-spent in the high yet humble vocation of
an English clergyman --that, however much at times suspected, avoided,
rebuffed, he yet, like others who have gone before him, at last won
from his brethren the willing tribute of honour and love, which once

had been sturdily refused or grudgingly granted.
   " Scholar, poet, novelist, he yet felt himself to be, with all and before

all, a spiritual teacher and guide       Amidst all the wavering

inconstancy of our time, he called upon the men of his generation

....with a steadfastness and assured conviction that of itself steadied and

reassured the minds of those for whom he spoke, to ' stand fast in
the faith.'"*
* " Charles Kingsley." Sermon preached on Jan. 31, 1875, in Westminster Abbey,
by Arthur Penrhyn Stanley. (Macmillan).
                                         11 11 2

468 Charles Kingsley.

   Telegrams and letters, full of reverent love for him and of
sympathy for those whom he had left, poured in from the
highest to the lowest in this land, and from many in other lands,

where his words had brought light in darkness, comfort in sorrow,
hope in despair -- from the heart of Africa, from Australia, from
California, as well as from America, where thousands had loved

him before they had seen him face to face so recently.
   Never had mourners over an unspeakable loss more exultant

consolation, lifting them above their own selfish sorrow, to the

thought of what they had possessed in him, and that, if mis

understood by some in his lifetime, he was honoured by all in
his death -- that among men of all parties, there was the unani
mous feeling that the great presence which had passed away
had left a blank which no one could exactly fill.

   But to those who knew what the life of his spirit had been,
and how his soul had been athirst for God, even the Living God,
there was higher consolation still, in the thought that that thirst

was slaked -- that his own prayer offered up once before Holy

Communion in Eversley Church, in these words, was answered,

--when, after speaking of the " intolerable burden of sin," he

cried :

" Oh Lamb Eternal, beyond all place and time ! Oh Lamb of God,

slain eternally before the foundation of the world I Oh Lamb which

liest slain eternally in the midst of the throne of God 1 Let the blood

of life, which flows from Thee, procure me pardon for the past ; let the

water of life, which flows from Thee, give me strength for the future.

I come to cast away my own life, my life of self and selfishness, which
Iis corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, that may live it no more,

and to receive Thy life, which is created after the likeness of God, in

Irighteousness and true holiness, that may live it for ever and ever, and

find it a well of life springing up in me to everlasting life. Eternal

goodness, make me good like Thee. Eternal wisdom, make me wise

like Thee. Eternal justice, make me just like Thee. Eternal love,

Imake me loving like Thee. Then shall hunger no more, and thirst

no more ; for  " Thou, O Christ, art all I want ;
                    More than all in Thee I find ;

               Raise me, fallen ; cheer me, faint ;

               Heal me, sick ; and lead me, blind.

                 But one Testimony.                       469

                 Thou of life the fountain art ;
                    Freely let me take of Thee ;

                 Spring Thou up within my heart ;
                    Rise to all Eternity." *

   Many of the letters received, which will be heirlooms to his

children, are too private, too sacred, to meet the public eye ; but
from those which point to some particular aspect of his character,

the following are selected, from the Missionary Bishop, the Parish
Priest, the Scientific Professor, the Poet, and the Young Artist :

" How grateful," writes Bishop Macdougall,t " is the remembrance of

Iyour beloved husband's unexpected visit to us at Ely (in 1873), how he

cheered me up, for was ill, and urged me to take this canonry of

Winchester, that we might be nearer together, and see more of one

Ianother. Ah ! how much counted upon the benefit and pleasure of

some closer intercourse with his bright, earnest, truthful, God and man-

loving soul ! .  Charles Kingsley and Frederick Maurice were
Ithe two great and noble spirits whose sympathy and converse most

craved for in the doubts and difficulties of my missionary life. On

Irecalling our long talks those two nights at Ely, can now see how he

prepared for the great change which was, alas ! so near. He spoke so

earnestly of the comfort of firm religious faith in these sceptical days.

He said he regretted the time spent on some of his earlier writings as

lost, and that his desire and purpose for the future was to finish his

course devoting all his powers of tongue and pen to the defence of

God's truth, and the services of the Church, and God's people therein.

Yes ! his ardent spirit was, it seems to me even then, perhaps uncon

sciously, pluming her wings to soar to the nearer presence of Him,

whom, in spite of all doubts and trials, he had learned to love so

dearly, and to fight for so manfully here below. His yearnings for

higher and better service were speedily answered, too soon, alas ! for

those who knew and loved him here.                        They are

  I" have been lately reading his 'Westminster Sermons.'

a noble testimony to all, of true faith in the living God (as made known
to us through our divine Redeemer), by one who loved and understood

science, but who, by using his knowledge rightly, so strengthened his

own faith and trust in God's providence and love, that he has been

enabled to leave us those grand sermons, as a voice from the grave, to

* " Rock of Ages. Town and Country Sermons."

t Bishop Macdougall, of Labuan, Canon of Winchester.

470 Charles Kingsley.

....support and help his brethren in their struggles with the scepticism and

atheism of the day. They are, I think, a great gift to the Church, for

which we may well be most grateful."

" I always," said Mr. Lyttelton,* in a letter to Mrs. Kingsley, " had

hoped to see more of him here below ; and somehow it never occurred

to me to expect that he would so soon be taken from us. One so little

Iconnected any thought of death with him-- and rightly am very sure,

for God, we might feel in blessed and humble confidence founded upon

instinct, as well as upon dogmatic religious belief, would never let him

....die, -- his heart and soul so basked in the glorious sunlight of God's love,

that it could not decay. He was a bit, a bright shining bit of life itself.
                 God did fit him wonderfully to rejoice in all His works here
below, and to teach multitudes now and in many a future year to do the
same. His ' bright particular star ' will shine with its quite peculiar light

in this earthly firmament for many a long year, perhaps even till the end,

and make many rejoice, in a way that scarcely any one else teaches one
to do. It was indeed (no it is still more truly now) a most beautiful soul
in its simplicity and truth and power; and all its power came from the
                              I was much struck, as have been
love of God and man
Imany, with a saying heard quoted of your husband's, how, when on

his death-bed some one spoke of your state of danger, and he could not
go to you, he took it with true and complete resignation -- 'What is the

use of saying toe believe in a Heavenly Father, if we will not trust Him ? '
That was most characteristic of him, and will I hope be recorded in any

....memoir of him. It would carry great weight with every one who knew

anything of him, from the absolute and evident complete sincerity of all

he ever said, especially on such great matters."

         PROFESSOR ROLLESTON TO MISS KINGSLEY.

                                              OXFORD, January 27, 1875.
I" read the sad news of your father's death whilst travelling away
Ifrom Oxford on Monday. Otherwise should have written before this
I Ito say to you how much felt had lost, and d fortiori others, by the
Ievent.
         do not recollect being more affected by any similar occurrence

I Ifor"mLaikney
         years.  other  men,  have felt that  owe some of the most
         many
Ideeply fixed impressions have ever had made upon me in favour of a

* Hon. and Rev. W. Lyttelton, Rector of Hagley, Canon of Worcester.

                        His Unique Generosity.                                                                                              471

line of virtue and truth to my acquaintance with your father's writings.
IAnd the opportunities which was privileged to have of personal inter
Icourse with him, count amongst the most valuable incidents of the
       which I have to look back upon.
Ikind                                    in your great      sorrow,                                                                 and  I  hope
        do not like to intrude upon you
   "
you will not trouble yourself to reply to this note. I have written it

finding it something of a relief to write and hoping you may be
                                       I

                                                 it,
                                                                                                 a
little soothed by finding an additional testimony borne to merits the

proportions  of  which  you  yourself  must so thoroughly appreciate.
                                        " am, yours truly,

                                         "GEORGE ROLLESTON."

          MATTHEW ARNOLD, ESQ., TO MISS KINGSLEY.

   " fear your mother        in no state to read letters you must let me
                              kept watching the accounts of your dear
write one line to you.
I
                                                                                                                                    has seemed
          I,
               if

                               a

                         I I is
                                    I

                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                    ;

                                                                                              it
father's illness with boding heart.      feared the worst

of late years as he had not fortune on his side as when he was young.

With all the more interest followed the accounts of this illness, and

not only     but Mrs. Arnold and my two girls. Your dear father

interested and attached all with whom he came in contact. His fine

talents and achievements in literature will now have full justice done to

them again the injustice, which he and they had in some quarters to
             ;
                                                         not of his talents and
                   I
                                I
experience, will be no longer busy. But
                                         I
                                               it
                                                     is
acquirements that wish now to speak.     find myself more full of the

thought of something in which he seemed to me unique.                     I                                                         think he

was the most generous man have ever known the most forward to
                                                         ;

praise what he thought good, the most willing to admire, the most free
from all thought of himself in praising and in admiring, and the most

incapable of being made ill-natured, or even indifferent, by having to

support ill-natured attacks himself. Among men of letters                                                                                   know
                        ;

                           it

                                   a

                                                              I
nothing so rare as this      will always keep your father's memory

surrounded, in my mind, with freshness and an honour peculiarly his

own.   " Believe me, my dear Miss Kingsley,
                                                 " Most sincerely yours,

                                         "MATTHEW ARNOLD."

   The last testimony, from            young London Artist,                                                                                 not
                             :
among the least valuable                a

   " MY DEAR MRS. KINGSLEY,                                                           is

472 Charles Kings ley.

reverence for Mr. Kingsley, and my gratitude for all he did for me by

word, influence, and by many kind and generous deeds. That gratitude

lives and increases day by day ; for his influence abides with me, affect

ing me more than ever it did ; and memory claims more and more its
homage, as I think over his high example, and the singular rectitude
Iand beauty that went to make up his life. like to believe that he would
Inot be ill-pleased that
                          should give my tribute (not for a moment in
attempting to speak of his position as a churchman, or power as a

parish priest, nor of his attainments as scholar, poet, or man of science,

but) simply as a young man amongst many other young men to whom

he was at once a fatherly counsellor, a friend, and a hero. His personal

Ipower of appeal to young men was very great : though, as venture to

think, in a somewhat different direction to the one usually imagined.

It was of a far more tender, strict, and refining nature than I have

found it was popularly supposed to be. Perhaps the one thing that

Istruck me more than anything else in him when first knew him, was

his singular dignity and polished grace of manner ; a certain high tone

that made itself felt to all around, not in any unpleasant restraint of

Ispeech or manner, for there was nothing should have feared to say to

him, so entirely did he seem friend and sympathizer ; but by raising the

whole colour and atmosphere of life about him, and by putting to shame,

beyond anything I have ever felt before or since, unworthy thought,

coarse word, and ignoble feeling.

  "From boyhood I have loved Mr. Kingsley's writings, and whiled away

many an hour, brightly and joyously, with my schoolfellows, by repeat

ing page after page by heart from some favourite chapter. My ' chums'
used to call ' Westward Ho ! ' my ' textbook,' and often we used to

assume the various characters in that book, behaving each as he thought

his assigned character would behave under like circumstances, some

times to the astonishment and perplexity of those around, and not

unfrequently to our own confusion ! Mr. Kingsley's name was a

household word in our home, and the very look of the written word

' Eversley ' had a charm in it to my eyes. It was, therefore, a most
Imemorable moment when
                          was introduced to him. Too often such

moments are times of disillusion, and we find, to our sorrow, that our

heroes look most heroic when viewed at a distance, and that they have

already given us their best in their public work. But with Mr. Kingsley

this was not so. He himself was far finer than any of his words ; and

Ihis life and living, as grew to know him more and more, brought to

me a greater lesson and a more lovely light than any even of his sweetest
I Isongs. Others,
know, have spoken in worthier words than any

       Giving " His Best " to the Young.                              473

Isided nature. Yet there was one trait in his character that must dwell

on, and it is this --his great and unforced kindness to everyone of every

Iage and station. In the first half-hour of my knowing him, found

him listening to me with as much attention and kindness as he would
Ihave given to one of his own age and attainments.
I If Iand whenever was with him he gave me his best.            felt that whilst
                                                                asked him any

thing he would tell me the best he thought, knew, or felt. Young men

know how rare this is with men of Mr. Kingsley's age and ability;

and none know better than they how delightful also it is when it is met

Iwith. It commanded my love and admiration more than could say.
IHe always seemed content with the society he was in ; because, think,

he loved and educated himself to draw out the best of everyone, to

Itouch on their stronger and not their weaker points. When was with
Ihim I always felt as much at home as if were with one of my own
Icollege friends ; and yet gained all the pleasure, advantage, and infor

mation of his brilliant imagination and well-stored mind. The delicate

courtesy and natural inborn kindness this showed were, to my mind,

things of no common order, and hardly to be over-estimated, because
Iso very rarely found.
                           have never experienced such like kindness

from anyone of Mr. Kingsley's age and learning. To be with him was

Ilike reading one of his works. It strengthened and refreshed one.

always felt in his writings a certain open-air effect--it is the only expres
sion I can use at all to convey my meaning. To turn from most writers

to him to my mind, like coming up on to glorious breezy moorland,
     I                                             a
or in         is,sight of theopensea.      on his  generosity.  When  first knew
   "                                   amust dwellformoment       I

                          iIf                                                                     '
                                 I
him life was just opening to me amidst strange perplexities and changes.

Through his helpful kindness was enabled to go to Cambridge. God

do so to me and more       do not help this young man,' he said, when

he heard of my wish to go to college. Subsequent years have been

marked with his unfaltering affection, forbearance, and ever ready help.

He bore with, and upheld me unwaveringly sympathizing with me in
                                                   I;

                                                           a is

                                                                       I

                                                                                          a it
all things, even when he disapproved.

   " Many words from me would be unbecoming, and much that could
have said has been already said by others. This the merest personal

tribute to Mr. Kingsley's memory, spoken for myself, and also, as

were, for others of my own age, many whom know, who loved him

well, and who would like to be said at such time and in such
place, that their opening days of life have been strengthened, purified,
     '

                                       it
restrained, and brightened by his healthful influence and noble words.
   " Requiescat in pace.' Sweet, and strong, and holy -- the memory

474 Charles Kingsley.

to live, that we may, each in his own way, grow, as best we may, like
unto him ; and, if like him, then surely also ' in favour both with God

and man.'  I" am, dear Mrs. Kingsley,

                    " Yours affectionately and gratefully,

                              "Clifford S. Harrison."

  A Kingsley Memorial Fund was set on foot immediately after

the funeral, in London, Chester, and at Eversley. The call was

responded to in America as well as in England.* The church

at Eversley has been enlarged and improved. The Chester

memorials have been described by the Dean ; and on the 23rd
of September the London memorial was placed in Westminster
Abbey, of which the following account appeared in the Times of

the next morning :

   The bust of Canon Kingsley, which has been executed in marble by Mr.
Woolner, was unveiled yesterday afternoon in Westminster Abbey. The
ceremony was extremely simple, but interesting and touching. At 2 o'clock
Canon Duckworth, who succeeded the late Mr. Kingsley in his canonry, and
is now in residence, attended by the Rev. W. Harrison (Mr. Kingsley's son-
in-law) and the Rev. J. Troutbeck, Minor Canons, proceeded in surplices
to the Baptistery, accompanied by the two sons and two daughters and
daughter-in-law of the late Canon, and a small number of intimate friends.
Canon Farrar was also present, but took no official part.

   After the bust had been unveiled by Mr. Maurice Kingsley, Canon Duck
worth delivered the following address, at the close of which the ladies laid
wreaths of choice flowers below the bust : --

   " If the grand reverential soul which almost beams upon us from those

sculptured features could find voice, would it not be to deprecate the least

transfer to himself of the glory which belongs to God alone ? I cannot but
remember now what he himself has said of the illustrious company gathered

here in what he has called ' England's Pantheon of beneficent and healthy

manhood.' ' All wise words which they have spoken, all noble deeds which
they have done, have come, must have come, from the one eternal source of
wisdom, of nobleness, of every form of good--even from the Holy Spirit of
God.' This is the thought which he would bespeak at this moment, when the
joy of perpetuating his honoured name and almost his very presence within

these storied walls mingles with a regret too deep for words. So let us
recognize that by the grace of God he was what he was, the fearless champion
of purity and truth, the tenderest and the manliest of men. Memories

cluster around him at this spot worthy to be entwined with his. There is
Maurice, to whose saintly soul his own was knit in bonds of such sympathy

              * Particulars of the different funds will be found in the Appendix.

The Unveiling of the Bust in the Abbey.                                  475

as only those can know who love God and man with an intensity like theirs.

Yonder is Wordsworth, the poet of nature, whose marvels he delighted to

explore and expound. There stands Keble, the sweet singer of that Church

which never had a more loyal and devoted son. And the light which streams
upon him passes fitly through the blazoned figures of Herbert and Cowper --

an offering from one of the great kindred people which claims its part and lot

in the worthies of England, and treasures the name of Charles Kingsley with

an affection equal to our own. And now we leave this precious memorial,

not only to attract for many a day the loving gaze of surviving disciples and

friends, but to take its place among the permanent glories of the Abbey, and

to be the heirloom of generations to come. Let us look at him once more,

and judge his right to be here by the noble words in which he himself tested
the right of others to commemoration in this shrine -- ' What was your work ?

Did we admire you for it ? Did we love you for it ? And why ? Because

you made us in some way or other better men. Because you helped us some

what toward whatsoever things are pure, true, just, honourable, of good
report. Because, if there was any virtue-- that true valour and manhood

   there was any praise -- that is, just honour in the sight of man, and, there
fore, surely in the sight of the Son of Man, who died for men --you helped us
if                                   is
                                          it
                                 is
to think on such things. You, in one word, helped to make us better men."is
                                                      is,
The bust itself one of Mr. Woolner's finest works, and, to those who
                                                        is
knew Charles Kingsley well, represents with marvellous fidelity the character   it

which had so stamped itself upon his expressive features. The mingled                                                         ;

sternness and tender sympathy, the earnestness and playful humour are all

in the living marble. To those who knew Mr. Kingsley but slightly, the

likeness at first less striking. The sculptor holding that either the beard
is is
or the smooth face may be legitimately treated in sculpture, but that the

whisker a temporary fashion of no artistic worth, has (since Mr. Kingsley
wore no beard) entirely divested the face of hair, and this, while increases

the grandeur of the work, renders the likeness less immediately apparent.

But we believe that Mr. Kingsley's own family, and all those who knew him

well, are entirely satisfied that Mr. Woolner not only right in his idea, but

most thoroughly successful in his treatment.

   The Baptistery in which the bust placed, rapidly becoming, as the
Dean has said, " a new Poets' Corner." On the same wall with the bust of

"Chdaeraler smKasintegrsle"y         stands that of Mr. Maurice,  whom    he delighted to call his
it                                  Keble and Wordsworth find a   place  in the same chapel, and
                                 ;
a stained window presented to the Abbey by an American gentleman contains

figures of George Herbert and Cowper.

   It was a matter of regret to all that Mrs. Kingsley's extremely delicate

health prevented her presence, but we may mention, that so soon as the bust

was completed and ready for the position now occupies, Mr. Woolner sent

down to Byfleet for her inspection. Those who know the danger of moving

heavy works of art will appreciate the sculptor's kindness, which was, we

know, deeply felt by Mrs. Kingsley.

476 Charles Kingsley.

cross, on which, under a spray of his favourite passion-flower, are
the words of his choice, the story of his life :

                                 "Amavimus, Amamus, Amabimus."

And above them, circling round the Cross, " God is Love," the
keynote of his faith.

   The green turf round the grave was soon worn by the tread of
many footsteps ; for months a day seldom passed without
strangers being seen in the churchyard. On Bank holidays

numbers would come to see his last resting-place --little children,

who had loved the " Waterbabies," and the " Heroes," would
kneel down reverently and look at the beautiful wreaths of
flowers, which kind hands had placed there, while the gipsies
never passed the gate without turning in to stand over the
grave in silence, sometimes scattering wild flowers there, believ
ing, as they do, to use their own strange words, that " he went to
heaven on the prayers of the gipsies."

   And now these scattered memories, connected by a feeble
thread all unworthy of its great subject, draw to a close. To
some it may have seemed a treachery to lift the veil from the
inner life of a man, who while here hated the notoriety which he
could not escape, and shrunk from every approach to egotism ;
but these private letters, showing, as they do, the steps by which
he arrived at many of his most startling conclusions through
years of troubled thought, are a commentary on much that
seemed contradictory in his teaching, and may justify him, while
they teach and strengthen others. Those alone who knew him
intimately --and they not wholly --best understood his many-
sided mind, and could interpret the apparent contradictions
which puzzled others. Those who knew him little, but loved
him much, could trust where they could not interpret. But to
the public, some explanation, if not due, may yet be welcome ;
and in that invisible state where perhaps he now watches with
intensest interest the education of the human race, he would not

The " True and Perfect Knight."                                                            477

revealing the workings of his own mind, may make his teaching
of the truths which were most precious to him on earth more
intelligible, if such a revelation should only help one poor

struggling soul to light, and strength, and comfort, in the sore

dark battle of life.

   Some, again, may be inclined to say that this character is
drawn in too fair colours to be absolutely truthful. But " we
speak that we do know, and testify to that we have seen." The

outside world must judge him as an author, a preacher, a member
of society ; but those only who lived with him in the intimacy
of everyday life at home can tell what he was as a man. Over

the real romance of his life, and over the tenderest, loveliest

passages in his private letters, a veil must be thrown ; but it will
not be lifting it too far to say, that if in the highest, closest of
earthly relationships, a love that never failed --pure, patient,
passionate, for six-and-thirty years -- a love which never stooped

from its own lofty level to a hasty word, an impatient gesture, or

a selfish act, in sickness or in health, in sunshine or in storm, by
day or by night, could prove that the age of chivalry has not
passed away for ever, then Charles Kingsley fulfilled the ideal
of a " most true and perfect knight " to the one woman blest
with that love in time and to eternity. To eternity-- for such
love is eternal ; and he is not dead. He himself, the man, lover,

husband, father, friend, he still lives in God, who is not the God
of the dead, but of the living. He is not dead ; for to use his

own inspiring words *--

" Those who die in the fear of God and in the faith of Christ do not

really taste death ; to them there is no death, but only a change of

place, a change of state ; they pass at once into some new life,

with all their powers, all their feelings, unchanged ; still the same living,
Ithinking, active beings, which they were here on earth.
                                                                                    say active.
. . . Rest they may ; rest they will, if they need rest. But what is the

true rest ? Not idleness, but peace of mind. To rest from sin, from

sorrow, from fear, from doubt, from care ; this is true rest. Above all
to rest from the worst weariness of all-- knowing one's duty, and yet

not being able to do          That true rest the rest of God, who works
                              it.
                                               is
                                                                     ;

" O* d"eTthoeTimVeict"orwyas  of Life," preached at the Chapel          Royal   in  1861.  Milton's
                               the last he read to his wife before his  death.

478 Charles Kingsley.

for ever, and yet is at rest for ever ; as the stars over our heads move

for ever, thousands of miles a day, and yet are at perfect rest, because

they move orderly, harmoniously, fulfilling the law which God has given

them. Perfect rest, in perfect work ; that surely is the rest of blessed

spirits, till the final consummation of all things, when Christ shall have
I Imade up the number of his elect.
Ithis is so.                                                      hope that this is so.         trust that

                         think our Lord's great words can mean nothing less than

this. And if it be so, what comfort for us who must die ! What com
fort for us who have seen others die, if death be but a new birth into
some higher life ; if all that it changes in us is our body -- the mere
shell and husk of us -- such a change as comes over the snake when he

casts his old skin, and comes out fresh and gay, or even the crawling

caterpillar, which breaks its prison, and spreads its wings to the sun asif,

a fair butterfly. Where is the sting of death, then, if death can sting
and poison and corrupt nothing of us, for which our friends have loved
us ; nothing of us with which we could do service to men or God ?

Where is the victory of the grave, so far from the grave holding us
down, frees us from the very thing which holds us down -- the mortal
            it
bod" yD?eath         is  no death then,   if if  it  kills no part of us save that which

hindered us from perfect life. Death not death,                      raises us from
                                                     it is           is

                                                                           if

                                                                                 it
                                                                                     is

                                                                                     if

                                                                                            it
                                                                                                    is is

                                                                                                  if
darkness into light, from weakness into strength, from sinfulness into

holiness. Death not death,                       brings us nearer to Christ, who the
it                                             it
                               is
                                                 if
                                      is
fount of life. Death not death,                                      perfects our faith by sight, and

lets us behold Him in whom we have believed. Death not death,

gives us to those whom we have loved and lost, for whom we have

lived, for whom we long to live again. Death not death,                                         rids us

of doubt and fear, of chance and change, of space and time, and all

which space and time bring forth, and then destroy. Death                                       not

death for Christ has conquered death, for Himself, and for those who
;

trust in Him. And to those who say, You were born in Time, and in '

Time you must die, as all other creatures do Time your king and
lord, as he has been of all the old worlds before this, and of all the races
                                                                     ;

                                                                           :

                                                                                   is
                                                                                             a
of beasts, whose bones and shells lie fossil in the rocks of thousand

generations   ;'         then we can answer them in the words of the wise Poet,

and in the name of Christ, who conquered death

              " Fly envious Time.till thou run out thy race,
                And glut thyself with what thy womb devours,
                Which no more than what false and vain
                 And merely mortal dross;

                 So little our loss, So little thy gain!
                 For when as each bad thing thou hast entomb'd,
                         is
                            is
                                                           is is

           The Victory of Life.                          479

Then long Eternity shall greet our bliss
With an individual kiss,
And Joy shall overtake us as a flood;
When everything that is sincerely good
And perfectly divine,
And Truth, and Peace, and Love shall ever shine
About the supreme throne
Of Him, unto whose happy-making sight alone
When once our heavenly-guided soul shall climb,
Then all this earthly grossness quit,
Attired with stars, we shall for ever sit,
Triumphing over Death, and Chance, and thee, O Time ! "

CHARLES KINGSLEY'S GRAVE, EVKRSLKY CHURCHYARD.


          APPENDIX.

VOL. II.             11


                     APPENDIX.

                                                       i.

                LAWS OF HEALTH TEACHERS' TRUST.

  Proposal to Found a Trust for Promoting the Teaching of Teachers the
Laws of Health, and inducing Teachers to make that Subject one ofthe Things

statedly taught in their own Schools.

   1. -- To place in the hands of Trustees the sum of 2,000/. to be applied as
follows (namely) : To pay out of the principal the stipend of a competent
Teacher, to be appointed by the Authorities of Saltley Training College (if
they sanction the proposal), who should deliver not less than twenty-five
Lectures each year on the subject to Students of that College. This will
probably absorb the capital in about ten years. The dividends on so much
of the principal as from time to time remains unappropriated, to be used by
the Trustees (subject to the payment of expenses as afternamed), in such way
as they may deem best for promoting the object expressed at the head of this

paper.

   2. -- If the teaching of the Laws of Health should not be carried on at

Saltley College, as before indicated, to the satisfaction of the Trustees, the
Trustees are to appropriate the Trust Fund in such manner as they may
deem best for promoting the object before stated.

   3. -- To place in the hands of the Trustees a further sum of 1,000/. to be by
them permanently invested, and the dividends arising from such Investments
to be applied in payment of four Exhibitions of 10/. each, to be awarded to
the four most meritorious Students indicated in Clause No. 1. The College
authorities to prescribe the regulations for the competition and the award of
the exhibitions. The Exhibitions to be held by each Exhibitioner for two
years next after he shall enter on his work as a teacher, and to be paid in
half-yearly sums, but subject to this condition, that he shall during the two
years teach the Laws of Health in a manner approved of by the Trustees,
either in his own school or in some other place approved of by the Trustees.

If this condition be not faithfully observed, the payment of the Exhibition

shall cease.

  4. -- If there should be no Candidate from Saltley College, or none suffi

ciently worthy, at any Examination, the Trustees may apply the Income so
left unappropriated, and all other unappropriated income (if any), in such
manner as they deem best for promoting the study of the subject.

                                                                                                                                                              1 12

484 Appendix.

   5.-- The Trustees shall be the Deputy-Mayor of Birmingham ; the
President and the Principal of Saltley College ; the Head Master of King

Edward's School, Birmingham ; a Member of the Council of the Birmingham

and Midland Institute, nominated by the Council ; and the Warden of

Queen's College ; and five other persons residing, or pursuing their avocations,
in the Borough of Birmingham, of whom two shall be Medical men, to be

elected, in the first instance, by the before-named Official Trustees, and after

wards by the whole body of Trustees. The elected Trustees to hold office

for two years, and to be eligible for re-election on their retirement.
   6. --The first funds shall be invested in the names of three or more of the

Trustees in the Public funds ; or in the stock of any of the English Colonies

or dependencies ; or in Indian Railway Stock, guaranteed by the Indian

Government ; or  on  "Mdoivrtigdaegneds-paoyfinCgity"  or Borough  Rates  ;  or  Debentures  or
Debenture Stock                                        Companies.
                 of
7. -- The Examiners for the Exhibitions shall be appointed by the Trustees

at a Meeting specially convened for the purpose.

   8. -- All questions as to compliance with the conditions of the Exhibition

shall be decided by the Trustees.
   9. -- All expenses in the management of the Trust, and the fees payable to

Examiners, shall be paid during the first ten years out of the income arising

from the investments of so much of the 2,000/. as is from time to time un

appropriated in the payment of the Teacher ; and after that period, out of

the income of the 1,000/., with power to reduce the Exhibitions if and when

the expenses are not otherwise provided for.

Signed on behalf of the Donor who desires to be anonymous.

                                                       ARTHUR RYLAND.

Birmingham, 24th October, 1874.

Appendix.                                                            485

                                 II.

  The Kingsley Memorial Fund, set on foot in February, 1875, resulted at
Eversley in the enlargement of the Church, and in the carrying out of a plan
of their late Rector for turning the old vestry in the tower into a baptistery,

opening out the roof, and substituting open benches for the remaining pews.
The Committee included the following names : --

The Duke of Westminster.              Rev. R. C. Powles.
                                      Rev. Elis Price.
Lord Eversley.                        Mr. Martineau.
                                      Mr. Stapleton.
Lord Calthorpe.                       Mr. Tindal.
Rt. Hon. W. Cowper Temple.            Mr. Dew.
General Sir William Codrington.
Sir William Cope.                     Mr. Wyeth.
                                      Mr. Seymour.
Mr. Beresford Hope, M.P.
Mr. Raikes Currie.

On a Brass Plate in the Baptistery these words are inscribed :--

                                       IN PIAM MEMORIAM
                                           CAROLI KINGSLEY

                               S. PETRI WESTMONASTERIENSIS
                                                  CANONICI

                                          HVIVSCE ECCLESIiE
                                       PER XXXI ANNOS
                                      RECTORIS DILECTISSIMI
                                  HANC JEDEM SACROSANCTAM
                             QVAM DOCTRINA ILLVSTRAVIT SVA
                                  INSTAVRANDAM CVRAVERVNT
                                        PAROCHIANI ET AMICI

                                              DESIDERANTES
                                                               A.D.

                                                MDCCCLXXV.

   At Chester, a Committee with which the Wrexham Society of Natural

Science joined, was formed, and it was decided that a Marble Bust should
be placed in the Chapter House ; a Medal struck for successful students in
the Natural Science Society ; and the ladies of Chester undertook to restore
one of the Cathedral Stalls in memory of the Canon.

   In London the following Prospectus was issued by Mr. John Thynne, and

responded to most generously, both in England and America.

                      KINGSLEY MEMORIAL FUND.

                                                 WESTMINSTER.

    Independently of the proposed Restoration of Eversley Church, it is pro
posed that a Bust should be made of the Rev. Charles Kingsley, and that one

486 Appendix.

copy be presented to the Chapter ofWestminster, to be placed in the Abbey,
and another to Cambridge, of which University Mr. Kingsley was so distin

guished a member.
   Mr. Woolner, R.A., has expressed his willingness to undertake the execu

tion of the bust.
   The following have already sent in their names in support of the

Memorial : --

The Archbishop of Dublin.         Anthony Trollope, Esq.

The Dean of Chester.              Thomas Hughes, Esq.

Alfred Tennyson, Esq.             The Dean of Windsor.

Tom Taylor, Esq.                  John Martineau, Esq.

The Master of Trinity College, Prescott Hewett, Esq.

Cambridge.                        G. Washburn Smalley, Esq., New

The Rev. H. Montagu Butler, D.D.  York.

Professor Max Miiller.            The Rev. C. Powles.

A. Macmillan, Esq.                The Right Hon. Lord John Manners,
The Bishop of Chester.                  M.P.

The Marquis of Lansdowne.         Matthew Arnold, Esq.

The Hon. J. L. Motley.            Lord Houghton.
The Rev. Chancellor Benson, D.D.  The Rev. S. Flood Jones.
The Duke of St. Alban's.          The Duke of Argyll, K.T.

John Walter, Esq., M.P.           The Bishop of Winchester.
The Duke of Bedford.              The Earl of Ellesmere.

The Marquis of Lome, K.T.         Sir Thomas Watson, Bart.

The Right Hon. W. E. Forster, M.P. Sir Charles Russell, Bart., M.P.

The Right Hon. G. Hardy, M.P.     Lord Carlingford.

The Hon. C. L. Wood.              The Rev. Lord John Thynne.
Professor Tyndall.                Lord Henniker.

Lord Clinton.                     The Rev. Stopford Brooke.

Lord Penrhyn.                     The Earl of Clarendon.

Sir Arthur Helps, K.C.B.          The Rev. Canon Prothero.

Little Cloisters,                      Treasurer :

                           John C. Thynne, Esq.

                         Westminster, Feb. 19, 1875.

   The list of Subscribers, which is too large to be inserted here, includes
many names, dear to one who loved Art as he did : among them, George
Macfarren, Alma Tadema, James Burn ; besides those of American friends
who had welcomed him so warmly and so lately to their homes across the
Atlantic Mr. Charles Peterson, of Philadelphia ; Mr. J. A. Gray, of New
York ; Mr. G. Childs,of Philadelphia ; Mr. D. O. Mills, of California, &c, &c.

      Appendix.                         487

      III.

                CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF
THE REVEREND CHARLES KINGSLEY'S WORKS.

1848  Saint's Tragedy.
      Alton Locke.
1849
1849  Yeast.
1849
1852  Twenty-five Village Sermons.
1852
1853  Phaeton.
1854  Sermons on National Subjects, 1st Series.
1854
1855  Hypatia.
1855  Sermons on National Subjects, 2nd Series.
1856  Alexandria and her Schools.
1857  Westward Ho !
1858
1859  Sermons for the Times.
1859  The Heroes.
1860  Two Years Ago.
1861  Andromeda and other Poems.
      The Good News of God -- Sermons.
1863
1863  Miscellanies.
1864  Limits of Exact Science applied to History (Inaugural Lectures).
1866  Town and Country Sermons.
1866
      Sermons on the Pentateuch.
1867
1867  Waterbabies.
1869  The Roman and the Teuton.
1869  David and other Sermons.
1871
1872  Here ward the Wake.
1872
1873  The Ancien Re'gime (Lectures at the Royal Institution).
1873  Water of Life and other Sermons.
1874  The Hermits.
1874  Madam How and Lady Why.
1875  At Last.
      Town Geology.
      Discipline and other Sermons.
      Prose Idylls.
      Plays and Puritans.
      Health and Education.

      Westminster Sermons.

      Lectures delivered in America.


                                               INDEX.

                       A.                                      Artist, letter from, vol. 472
                                                                                     i.
                                                                                             i. ; ii.

                                                                                                 ii.
                                                                                                         ; ii.
Abbot, Archbishop, vol.         i.                             Association, British, vol. 35
Abou Zenab, vol. 435               i. 78
Abstraction, power of, vol.                                    Associations, vol. 236 vol.                             45,      ii. 58
                                                                                                                        vol.
Accents, vol. 347i.                                            Athanasian Creed, vol. 327-8
             i. i.                                                                                                      vol. ii.
Accounts, vol. no                         302                  207, 393-99
                   i.
                                                               Atheist, letter to, vol. 75
                                                               Atonement, vol. 83    i.
Afflictions, vol. 132, 145                                     Attacks of Press, vol.       i. ii.
                   letters on, vol.                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                282-90
                                     ii.
                                          i.

                                                          ;
                                          29, 367,                 265
                                                               Augustine, St., vol.
381, 432                                                                    ii.                 116, 128; vol.                  ii.
                                                                                    i.
Agriculture, Lecture on, vol.                  287             64, 66

  vol. it 62, 356, 358                                         Avignon, vol. 204-5

Alderflies, vol. ii. 177

Aldershot, vol. 463 vol. ii. 48, 49                                                  B.
                 i.
                          i. ;

                                 i.
Alexandrian schools, vol. 365                                  Babel, vol. ii. 339
                                                               Back, Adm. Sir G., letter, vol. ii. 187
"Alton Locke," vol. 268, 305

America, vol. ii. 228, 421-44

American professorship, vol. ii. 257                           Bagshot sands and gravels, vol.                         ii.    169-

Ancestors, vol.            105, 184 vol. 24,                                                                                 1
                 i.                                                70
                    I,                                         Baker,

                                               ;

                                                  ii.

                                                                       S., Esq., letter from, vol. ii.
    320                                                                J.

Andrew's, St., vol. ii. 251                                                       i. i.
                                                                                         7,
                                                                                             8
Andromeda, vol. 339-340                                            354
Angelic ideal of men, vol. 259                                 Baptism, vol. 80
Animals, vol. ii. 10
                       ii. i. 9, i.                            Barnack, vol.
                                       i.                      Barton Hall, vol. ii. 95
                                                               Bates, W., Esq., letters to, vol. ii.
                                                 i.
                                                           83
Anthropomorphism of Bible, vol.                                                                                                 74,

Antinomies, vol.       196, 460                                     175                         i.
Antipathies, vol.       10
                                                               Bateson, Dr., letter from, vol. 59
Antiquities, Scotch, vol. ii. 253-255                          Beaches, raised, vol. ii. 331, 333
Antiquity of Man and Vegetation, vol. ii.                      Beauty, vol. 29,
                                                                       i.
                                                                            i.

                                                                                  i. 85
                                                                                    i.
    348, 349                         ii.  191                  Beekites, vol. ii. 169
Apologia, Newman's, vol.
                                                               Bees, swarming, vol. 139
Aquariums, vol. 405, 410                                       Bellini, John, vol. 171
Archdeacons, vol. 78, 80
                       i.                                      Bemerton, vol. 120
                           ii.

Arianism, vol. 327                                             Bennett, Charles, letters to, voL                       ii.    76-
                 i.

Arnold, Dr., vol. 143  i.                                          78
Arnold, Matthew, letter to, vol. ii. 338
                                                               Benson, Dr., letter from, vol. ii. 157-9
Art, vol.            letter from, vol. ii. 471                 Berkely, Bishop, vol. ii. 345
           168-178, 296
           i.                                                                 University, vol. ii. 438
                  ii.
Articles, vol. 216-218                                         Bermondsey, vol. 216-17
                                                                                     i.

490 Index.

Bcrtrich, vol. i. 295                                             Cambridge, College days, vol. 45-64
                                                                                      Professorship, vol. ii. 153
Betting, letters on, vol.
                                                                  Campbell, Rev. E., letter from, vol.
Bewick, vol. ii. 222, 225        i.        360-66                                                                  i.
Beziers, vol. ii. 202              i. ii.                                                                                        i.

                                                                  234

Biarritz, vol. ii. 195-6                                                        letters to, vol. ii. 155, 178
Bible, vol.
             ii. i.  14, 116                                      Canonry, Middleham, vol. 13
                 i. 1                                                             Chester, vol. ii. 296
Bideford, vol. 428, 446, 449                                                                     ii.
                                                                                                    i.
Birds, vol. 10-12, 246
                                                                                                      ii.

                                                                                                      j
Birmingham, vol. ii. 386-92                                                       Westminster, vol. 406
                                                                  Canons of criticism, vol. 39
Blomfield, Bishop, vol. 291                                       Carcassonne, vol. ii. 201

Body, sanctity of, vol. 85, 465 vol.                     ii. ii.  Carlyle, Thomas, vol. 55, 86, 121
                                                  ;                                          i.
83.97                                                                                              i.
                                                     i.                         letters from, vol. 234, 244
Bohemia, vol. ii. 283                                             Cathedral worship, vol. ii. 319
                                                                  Celibacy, vol. 190, 257
Book ocean, vol.       ; i.   13                                  Chagford, vol. 212i. i.
                           1
Botanical Class, vol. ii. 321                                     Chain of destruction, vol.
                                                                  Chalk Forest, vol. 121
Botany, vol. 29 vol. ii. 331, 333i.                                                              i.    486

Boyle, Rev. G., letter, vol.         i. i. ii.  50                                       i.

Bramo Somaj Tracts, vol. ii. 317                                  Chaplaincy to Queen, voL ii. 71
                                                                                      Prince of Wales, vol.
Brave Words, vol. 439                                                                                              ii.
                       i.

Bremer, Fredrika, vol. 350                                        178
                                 i.

Bright side and dark, vol. 88, 387                                Chartism, vol. 154-5, 162-5, l66
Brimley, G., letters to, vol. 265, 365-6                                            i.
                                                                                                 i.

                                                                                                               i.
                                                                  Cheap clothes and nasty, vol. 236
Bristol riots, vol.    i.,                                        Chelsea Rectory, vol. 37-38
                            20, 21, 307

lecture, vol. ii. 32, 33                                          Chester, vol. ii. 297, 305, 319-22, 392

Social Science Congress, vol.                                     Children, love of, vol. 145
                                                                                i.
                                                                                      i.
                                                                                              i.
                                                                                                 ii.

                                                                                                           i.
297-304                                                                         training of, vol. ii. 3-5

British Museum, vol. 174                                                        death of, vol.         322-4
                            i.

Bronte, Charlotte, vol. ii. 24, 25                                Chloroform, vol. 326
                                                                  Cholera, vol. 215, 414-15, 423
Brooke, Rajah, vol.              i.  222, 369-70,

   444-5                                                          Christ co-equal with God, vol. 397
Brother's death, vol. 133                                         Churchyard, vol. ii. 103, 104
                       i. i. i.                                   Church Catechism, vol. 112, 121
                love, vol. 84                                                                    i.
                                                                                                   i.
Brotherhoods, vol. 429                                            Clerkship in Orders, voL 233
Brown, Tom, vol. ii. 26-27                                        Clifton College, vol. ii. 297-9
Buccaneers, vol. ii. 61
                                                                  Clough's poems, vol. 181, 191i. i.
Bunbury, Sir C, letter from, vol. ii. 95                          Clovelly, vol. 17-19, 39, 207i.
                                                                  Club day, vol. 278
Bunsen, Baron, letters from, vol. 86,                             Coal on the fire, vol. ii. 351-2
                                                                  Coal plants, vol. ii. 133
105, 15 1-2, 367-9, 424                                           Cobden, vol. 221

Bunsen, Henry de, letter, vol. ii. 297

Bunyan, John, vol.     ii.    76, 78, 89-90                                     i.
                                  ii.
Bust in Westminster Abbey, vol. ii. 474                           Coleridge, Rev. D., letter from, vol.            ; i.

Butterflies, mocking, vol. 174-5                                  22-3

                                                                  Comatula rosacea, vol.         198, 200
                                                                                             i.
                                                                                                     i.
                                                                  Comte and Comtism, vol.                91, 234
                                                                     vol. ii. 274-5

                                                                  Confirmations, vol. 127-8i.

Caddises, vol. 481-2                                              Congreve, Capt., letters from, vol. ii.
Callcott, W. H., letters to, vol. ii. 318,
                 i. i.                                            Conington, Professor, letters to, 191,
                                                                            56
    332                84, 324, 471, 398                              '95           ii.  38-39
Calvinism, vol.                                                   Conscience, vol.

                                                       Index.                                                  491

Cooper, Thomas, letters to, vol. i. 183,                     Edinburgh, vol.  i. i.  365                              
    221                                                      Education, vol.         198, 201

Cope, Sir Wm., letters to, vol. 65-70,                                           of son, vol. ii. 245
                                            ; ii.                                Address, vol. 298-300
    270                                                 ii.                      League, vol. ii. 303ii.
Cornwall, vol. 22-37, 100, 207                               Eifel, tour in, vol. 294
Correspondence, vol. 246-7 vol.                              Elizabeth of Hungary, vol. 99, 146
          i.                                                 Eloquence, vol. 303i.
                     i.                                      Emotions, danger of, vol. 108i.

233                                                          Emperor L. Napoleon, vol. ii. 269i.
                                                             English Race, vol. ii. 81           i.
Cottage Lectures, vol. 228, 238, 303
                          ii.
Cotton famine, vol.          i.145-8

Country parish, ladies' work, vol.                 i.  451
Coverdale, vol. 135
          i.

Crannoges, vol. ii. 253                                      Enthusiasm, vol. 105, 108
Crime, vol. ii. 275-6                                        Erskine, Right Hon. T. voL
Crowland Abbey, vol.
                                                                           ii. 211
                                                                              i.                        329 vol.
                                                                                   ii.
                          i.        182
                              i.                                                                    i.
Crystal Palace, vol. 351                                                                                           ;
                                                                         Henry, vol. 214
Culture, la petite, vol. it 356                              Esau and Jacob, vol. ii. 186

                                                             Essays and Reviews, vol. ii. 80

                          I).                                Eversley, parish and church, vol.                 i.     75,
                                                                76, 124, 125 vol. ii. 16, 315
                                                               ;
                                                             Excitement, physical, vol. 53, 54
Dartmoor, vol. 213                                           Exercise, value of, vol.
                i. i. i.                                                              i.
Darwin, vol. ii. 135, 171, 247, 345                                                        85 i.
Day of the Lord, vol. ii. 453
                                                             Exhibition, Great, vol. ii. 280
D.C.L. degree, vol. ii. 179
                                                             Eyre, ex-Governor, vol.          ii.  235
Dead, state of, vol. ii. 29

Death, vol. 460ii.

Deep thoughts, vol. 89                                       Fame, vol. 457
                                                             Farley Court, vol. 455, 464
                                                             Father, his character of, vol.
                          i.                                   i.
                                                                           i.
Degradation theory, vol.            i. ii.  143                                               i.
                                                                                                   3,
Democracy, vol. 315                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                 7
Denman, Hon. Rev. L., letter, vol.
                                                       i.      death of, vol. ii. 102

57                                                                       in his home, vol. ii. 3-9
                                                             Fatherhood of God, vol. 324
Design, arguments from, vol. 389-90                          Fens, vol. 12, 13
                                            i. i.            Fever in parish, vol. 206
Deutsche Theologie, vol. 419-20,422-5                          i.
                                                                                  i.
Devonshire, vol.        i.        17-19, 195-202,
                          i. i. 3,                                                       i.

   207-215, 403 412, 427-9. 449-5'                           Field, Horace, letter to, vol. ii. 258
Devoutness and holiness, vol. 204                            Field lectures, vol. ii. 321, 350
                                                             Fire and worms, vol.
Disease preventible, vol. ii. 47, 81-86,                                             ii. ii.  41, 42
                                                             Fires on heath, vol.
    369                                                                                     316
Disestablishment, vol. 400
Doubts, religious, vol. 46, 50                               Fishing, vol. 277-8, 479-80i.
Drawing class, vol. 449-50
Drawings, vol. 209, 210                                      Fishing flies, vol. 480-1-9i.

Dreams, vol. ii. 20, 38                                      Former life, glimpses of, voL 82
Drunkenness, vol. ii. 33, 270-74                                                                   ii. ii. i.
Dundreary, Lord, vol. ii. 140-143i.                          Fox, George, vol. 357i.
Dunn, Henry, letter, vol. ii. 275
                                                             France, tour in, vol. ii. 193-207
Duty, vol. 321                                               Franchise, the, vol. 387
                                                                                     i.
                                                                                       ii.
                                                             French peasants, vol. 359
                                                             Froude, A., vol. 195 vol.
                                                                              i.                               177, 192
                                                               Mrs., vol.       ii.

                                                                                           ;
     i.                                                                              103

                                                             Funeral, vol. ii. 463

                                                             Future life, vol. 485 vol. 96, 97
                               E.                                  i.
                                                                             ;
Earnshaw, Rev. J., letter to, vol. ii.
                                                             Galton, Francis, letter from vol.                 i.
    108                                                                                                           6

492 Index.

Gaskell, Mrs., letters to, vol. i. 370 ;
   vol. 24

Geikie, Professor, letter to, vol. ii. 280

Genius inherited, vol.
          ii.                                                                Ice action, vol. i.       279
                                      i.                                                          i. ii.
                                     ii. 4
                                                                                                             5
                                                                             Ilfracombe, voL 195
                                                                             Impulse, vol. 104,
Geological Society, vol. 153
German and French war, vol. ii. 238,                                         Incarnation of the Son, vol. 378, 392,
                                                                                                                       i.

333. 335                                                                     468

Germany, vol. 292                                                            Independents, vol. 24     ii.
                                                                             Indulgence of God, vol. ii. 208
                           i.

Gerolstein, vol.           i.       295                                      Infinity, definition of, vol.
Ghosts, vol.                            vol.                                 Influence, vol. 86
                           i.                     463 vol.         ii-                         i.                      323
                                  ;           i.                                                                 i.
                                 7                   i.

'9-                                                        ;                 Installation ode, Cambridge, vol. ii.

Grove, George, letter to, vol. 351-2                                                                                             1  14

Gypsies, vol. 298 vol ii.                                                    Intermediate state, vol. ii. 395-8
                           i.                                                Inveraray, vol.  ii.
                                       ;                                                         ii.

                                                                             Ireland, vol.                 i.139-40

                                                                                                   107, 108, 295
                                                                             Iron trade strike, vol. 311
                                                                             Ivory, Mammoth, vol. ii. 22
                                    II.

Habit, power of, vol. 89                                                          i.
       J.                                                                               i.

                            i.                                                                 ;
                                          i.
                                                                                             i. i. J-
                                       i.
Hansard, Rev. S., letter from, vol.                                                                    ii.
          C, vol. 157                                         ii.  127       Jacob's Island, vol. 216-219
Hare,                                                               ii.
                                                                             Jervaux Abbey, vol. 136
          letter from, vol. 376                                              Jesuitism, vol. 250, 430
Harrison, Rev. \V., letter from, vol.
                                                                             Jews, vol. 353 vol.                237
281-288                                                                      Jones, Col., letter from, vol. ii. 73

Hawk, vol. 339-40      i.                                                    Juventis Mundi, vol. ii. 419
Health classes, vol. ii. 387-390
Heimweh, vol. 200, 210, 211
                       i.                                                                                 K.
                          ii. i.
Hellenism, vol. 338                                                          Kant, vol. 324
Helston, vol. 22                                                             King's College, vol. 37-40

                                                                                                professorship, vol.
                                                                             Knowledge, vol. 69, 467
Henslowe, Rev. G., letter to, vol. 31                         ii.                 i.
                                                                                                  i.

Heroes, the, vol. 456
                               i.

Heroism lecture, vol. ii. 392                                                                                          i.   178

Hexameters, vol. 341-9                                                                             i.

                       i.
                              . i.
                                   ii.
Hospital hymn, vol                        370

Hounds, vol. 349

Howson, Dean, letter from, vol.                   i. ii.                     Land, cultivation of, vol. 357-9
                                                              409            Landes, the, vol. ii. 194          i. ii.
Hughes, T., sketch of time, vol.                              158                                                    i.

          letters to, vol. 277, 311, 440,                                    Landlords, education of, vol. 357
                       ii.                                                   Language of attitude, vol. 91
487 vol.                  i.25, 132, 214
       ;                                i. i. i.

Hullah, John, letters to, vol. ii. 60-62                                     Lay preaching, vol. 270   ii.

Humanity, vol. 113                                                           Lectures, vol. 32ii.
                 of Bible, vol.
                                                  115                        Leopold, King, lines on, vol.             ii.  223
Humour, sense of, vol.                            227 vol.
   3'                                             ;                          Liberality of Church of lingland, vol.              i.

                                                             ii.

Hungerford Suspension Bridge, vol.                                           400

181                        i.                                                Liberty and equality, vol. 289     i. i.
                                i. i.                                        Life, destruction of, vol. 222
Hunting, vol. 349-50
                                              ;                              Light shining, vol. 105
                                                                                                   i.
                                               ii.
                                                     ii.

                                                                         i.
Hunting horn, vol. ii. 320                                                   Linnean Society, vol.       ii.    15

H" yHmynpoaltoiag,y",  modern, vol.               346, 382-6                 Literary world, vol. ii. 221

                       vol. 366 vol. 405                                     Long life, vol.       59 voL ii. 107, 404
                                                                                              i.
                                                                                                      ;

Hyppolytus, vol. 368-70                                                      Longfellow, vol. ii. 271

                                                       Index.                                                  493

Lords, House of, vol. ii. 242                                   Moorland bath, vol. 81
Lorraine, last ballad, vol. ii. 444                                                      i.
Lorritner, Professor, letter to, vol. ii. 241                                               ii.
                                                                Mother's influence, vol. ii. 252
Low-church school, vol. i. 70
                                                                Mountains, snow, vol.            199
Lundy Island, vol. i. 208
                                                                Miiller, Max, vol. ii. 72, 237,           332, 349,
Luther, vol. 219
Lyell, Sir Charles, letter from, vol. ii.                           379
      .                                                         Muscular Christianity, vol. ii. 212
                                                                Museums, vol. 221 vol. 166-168
             ii.
                                     ii.                        Music, vol. 109 vol. ii. 320, 333, 440
                                                                Mutiny, Indian, vol. ii. 34, 35

                                                                Mysticism, vol. 79
                                                                Mystification of self, vol. 89
      114                                                               i.
                                                                             i.

                                                                                     ;
                                                                                            ;

                                                                                                  ii.

      letters to, vol.                    168, 350

Lyttelton, Hon. Rev. W., letters to                    and              i.
                                                                                       i.
from, vol. ii. 470

                                                                                     X.

                    M.                                          Napoleon, Louis, vol. 337   i. i. ii.
                                                                National Freedmen's Union, vol. ii. 258
M acdougall, Bishop, letter from, vol. ii.

    469         465,                                            National Gallery, voL 168-174
Madness, vol.  i.                                               Natural history, vol. ii. 371
                            6
                                  i.

                                                    ;
Manchester school, vol.                   314 vol. ii.          Natural language, vol. 90

                                                                Naturalist, character of, vol. 406 vol.
          37                                                                                            i. i.  ; ii. ;
      millowners, vol. 474,                                     ii. 21
                             i.                        5
                                     i.                      ;  Nature, worship of, vol. 36
Mansfield, Charles, vol. 441                                                                     i. i.

Mariolatry, vol. 260i.                                                      and morals, vol. 486
Marriage, letters on, vol.                                      Navy chaplain, letter from, vol. ii. 29
                                          i.  145, 187-9

      vol. ii. 18, 28, 70, 71                                   Neo Platonism, vol. 325 vol.                           366
                                                                New Forest, vol. 147,
                                                                                           i.          ;
                                                                                                  8
                eternity of, vol. 185                                                ; i.

Marsh, Miss, letter to, vol. 440
Martineau, Harriet, letter from, vol.
                             i.                                 Newman, John Henry, vol. 82 vol.
                               i.
                                                  i.               ii. 192, 270
                                                                Niagara, voL ii. 43
6        vol. ii. 325,i. i. 6                                                            1
   ;Martineau, John, letter from, vol.

                                                       297      Nicor, voL 336
                             ;                                  Norse intellect, vol.i. i.
Materialism, vol. 115                    ii.                                               i.  201

                                              i.                Novels, vol. 18 vol. ii. 39
                                                    i.
Maura Santa, vol. 345 vol.                             52-54

Maurice, Rev. F. D., letter from, vol.

                     127                                                                   O.
             works, vol. 371
             letters to, vol. 372-5 vol.i.                      Oatmeal, vol. 417i.
   32, 52,64, 137, 18S. 211,215, 295i.                                       ii.
Medical education of women, vol.              ;                 CEnone, vol. 339
                                                    ii. ii.     Officers at church, vol. ii. 16
   304,5                                                        Opinions, changing, vol. 106
Mediterranean sea, vol. ii. 202,                                Ordering the household, vol.     i.
Message, the great, vol. 102                                    Orders, holy, vol. 58, 67, 236
Meteor shower, vol. ii. 239                                                                           i.
Michael's, St., Mount, vol. 349                                 Ordination, vol. 73
                                                                                                               11
Middle class, vol. ii. 275                                      Otters, vol. 330                                    1

Middleham, vol. 134-6        i-                                 Oxford D.C.L., vol. ii. 179-80i.
Military education, vol. ii. 271-3 ii.                                          i.
Mill, John Stuart, letter from, vol. 88                         Oxford and Cambridge Review,i.
                                          3
                               letters to, vol. ii. 294,
                                                                                                               vol.         i.

               i.                                                  136-7                   i.  47, 58, 70, 71, 82,
                  ii.                                           Oxford tracts, vol.

                    ii.                                         83

    327                               ;
Miracles, vol.                                       1.

                                    ii
                    65, 67 vol.                        377      " Palmer's Church History," vol.                            67,

Monks, vol. 331, 335                                                71                                                  i.

Monotony, vol. 231, 315

494 Index.

Palmerston, Lord, vol. i. 415, 422                                  Professorships, vol. 154i.                     2                    265, 293
                                                                    Progression, vol. 141,   i.                       ;            vol. 266
Ill,Pantheism, vol. ii. 367
                                   124-6, 153                       Pulliblank, Rev. J., letter,                          ii.      392
Parish work, vol. i.                                                                                                            ii.  209, 396
                                                                    Pulver Maar, vol. 295
Parker, John, vol. ii. 104                                          Pump, vol. 64i.
                                                                    Punishment, eternal, vol.i.
Parson Lot, vol. i. 159, 160
                                                                                         endless, vol.
Parties in the Church, vol. i. 137                                                                                   ii. i.
                                                                    Punishment, vol. ii.
Passion week, vol. i. 360-4
                                                                    Pupil work, vol. 198
Pau, vol. ii. 197-9                                                 Purgatory, vol. 397ii.
                                                                    Puritans, vol. 24ii. i.
Paul, C. K., letter from, vol. i. 224                                             4

Peasant proprietors, vol. ii. 356

Pendulum, vol. i. 107

Pengelly, letters to, vol. ii. 169, 255, 318

Penny periodical, vol. i. 179

Penny readings, vol. ii. 231                                        Quakers, vol. 429

Penrose, Frank, letter from, vol. i. 56                             Queen's College, vol. 186, 200-201i.
                                                                    Queen's chaplaincy, vol. ii. 71i.
Pentateuch, vol. ii. 181
                                                                    Queen Emma, vol. ii. 219
Pen-y-gwryd, vol. i. 495
Personality, vol. i. 384                 Maurice,            and
Philosophy of Coleridge,
                                                                                                           R.
  Carlyle, vol. i. no

Phraseology, vol. i. 52, 128                                        Rabelais, voL 211

Phryganea, vol. i. 481, 2                                           Rain, vol. ii. 109ii.
                                                                    Religious emotions, vol.i. i. i.
Physical strength, vol. i. 54, 300                                                                      i.

Physiognomy, vol. ii. 18                                                                                                 72

Physiology, study of, vol. ii. 387, 389                             Restlessness, vol.                     301

Pictures, vol. ii. 230                                              Revivalism, vol. ii. 93

Pilgrim's Progress, vol. ii. 76-78, 89-91                           Rhine, the, vol. 292-3
                                                                    Rock doves, vol. ii. 135
Placard for Chartists, vol. i. 156
Plato, vol. i. 383, 384 ; vol. ii. 27                               Rolleston, Professor, letters                                  to and from,

Pluck, vol. ii. 27                                                      vol. 143, 470

Poems, vol. i. 9, 148, 197, 213, 243, 293,                          Romanists, vol. ii. 59
                                                                    Roman Catholic Church, Dr. Newman's
346, 478, 487, 490, 495, 500 ; vol. ii.
                                                                       definition, vol. ii. 192
    223. 393. 419. 444                                              Rome, conversions to, vol.                                         202, 249-
Poetic nature, vol. i. 304, 5
                                                                        260
Poetry of life, vol. i. 1 10                                            i.
                                                                                            i.

                                                                                                    i.
           advice on writing, vol. i. 185                           Ruskin, vol. 211
Political economy, vol. ii. 36
                                                                    Ruth, Mr. Gaskell's, vol. 370

Politics for People, vol. i. 158

Pont du Gard, vol.
              i. i.                203,  4
                         ii.                          i. i.
Popery, vol. 133                                                    Sabbath Question, vol. 352, 484

Positivism, vol. ii. 367                                                                                             i.

Poverty, vol. 84, 140                                               S"aSiloarin, t'lsetTterar gferodmy,,"  vol.  i.  472
Powles, Rev. R., letter from, vol.                                                                           vol.       99,
                                                             24                                                    i.                  146, 151
                                                                                                                     i.
                    letters to, vol.                         38,    Salisbury Cathedral, vol. 119; vol.                                ii.

'33. i37-'44                                                        29

Prayer, vol.  99, 10, 146; 320, 389                                 Salmon fishing, vol. ii. 107, 108, 140
              i.                                                 ;
                 i.
vol. ii. 109-118          i. i. 1                                   Salt Lake City, vol. ii.
                                                                    Sandhurst College, vol. ii. 272 --
Preaching, vol. 128, 359-65,                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                                                                ii.
Prince Consort, vol. 238 vol. ii. 237                               Sanitary work, vol. 218 vol.
                                   ;                                                    ii.                                            34,
                                            i.                                               i.
Prince of Wales, vol. ii. 155, 368, 458                             7'
Problem of life, vol. 455
Procession of Holy Ghost, vol. 468                                  Savonarola, vol. 219

                                                                    Scenery, impressions of, [vol. 199, 2l1                        i.

                                                               Index.                                                 495

School-teaching, vol. i. 112.                                                              T.
Schulze, Dr. Karl, letter from, vol.
                                                               ii.

401                                                                      TARTARUS, vol. 470
                                                                            i.
                                       vol. ii. 349                                 i.
Scientific Society, Chester,                                             Tauler, vol. 497-9
                                        468                              Taylor, Sir Henry, vol. 275
Scotland, vol. ii. 114, 251             49                                                           i. ii.
Scripture difficulties, vol.                                             Teetotalism, vol. 270
Sedgwick, Professor, vol.         i. i.                                     i.
                                                                               i.
                                                                         Tennyson, vol. 72

Self, danger of, vol. 104                                                Tersteegen, Gerhard, vol. 69
                           i.
                              i.
Self-sacrifice, vol. 103                                                 Thackeray, vol. ii. 25
Selfwill, vol. 319                                                       Thrift, distribution of, vol. ii. 353-55
             i. ii. i. i.
Sensitiveness, vol. 268-9, 299                                           Thunderstorm, vol. 279
                           8,                                                              i. i.
Sermons, vol.                i.280, 289, 359-6, 478                      Time and space, vol. 315

Sewage, vol. 68                                                          Toads in holes, vol. ii. 178

S.G.O., vol. 123                                                         Tones, vol. 84
Shairp, Professor, letter from, vol. ii.                                    i.
                                                                                i.

                                                                                              i.
                                                               2         Torridge Moors, vol. 209
                                                                  5

Shields, Fred., letters to, vol. ii. 89, 91                              Tract 90, vol. 58, 71
               letter from, vol. ii. 91
,                                                                        Tracts for priests and people, vol.       ;        131
      ,
Shipwreck, vol. 18, 19                                                   Treves, vol. 296                              ii.
Sin against the Holy Ghost, vol. 448                                        i.
Sion College lecture, vol. ii. 345                                             ii.
Smith, Rev. H. Percy, letter from, vol.                                                   i.
                           i.                                            Trinidad, vol. 307
                                                          i.

                                                                         Trinity, Holy, vol. 316, 396 vol. ii.

                                                               i.            215

    237                                                                  Trochees, vol. 343-4
                                                                         Trout fishing, vol. 479
Smoking, vol. 301
                                                                         "Two Years Ago," vol.
Snowdon, vol. 464, 492i. i.                                                 i.                                463; vol. ii-
Socialist, Christian, vol. 264    i.                                              i.
Soldiers, vol. ii. 48, 73, 374                                                                  i.
Soot, human, vol. ii. 322-4
Souffriere of St. Vincent, vol.                                          IS, 29-3'. 40-43

                                                                                           U.

South of France, vol. ii. 193, 207         i. i.                         UNION strikes, vol. 474-79i.
Space predicated of God, vol. 322-3             5                        Unity, longing for, vol. 103i.
Spenser, vol. ii. 399
Spoon, vol. ii. 27                ;                                      Universities, vol. 265-6  ii. i. i.
Staff College, vol. ii. 49,            56                                University honours, vol. 62

Stammering, vol. 303 vol. ii. 17,                                           sermons, vol.                     212

                           i.                                  1

   260-3                                   ii.  55, 105,         ii. 8,                             V.
Stanley, Dean, letters to, vol.
                                                                         VIRGIN MARY, vol. 259
                              129, 181                                   Vitality, want of, vol. 93i.
                                                                                                ii.
                      letter from, vol. ii. 462
                         Sermon, vol. ii. 466

Strauss, vol. 234, 378-9
Strikes, Union, vol. 474-7
Struggles after truth, vol. 112

Stuart, T., letter to and from, vol.
               i. , ,                                                                      W.
                            i.
                                   i.

                                                                         WAGES of sin, vol. 208
                                                                                             i. ii.
   253-5                                                                 War, Crimean, vol. 432-40
Study at Rectoiy, vol.                301-2 vol. ii.                              French and German, vol.     i.      332-3
                           i.                                            ,                                       ii.
                             i.                                          Washing, vol. 33
    103, 285                                                             Waste lands, vol. ii. 62ii.
                             i.I
Study of God, vol. 96                ;                                   "Water Babies," vol. 187    ii.
         objective, vol. 91           i.                                 Water supply of London, vol. 214-15
                                             ii. ii.                     Weather sermon, vol. ii. 109
Subjectivity, vol. 90 vol.                            i. 58 ;
Subscription to articles, vol. 216-18                                    Wellington College, vol. ii. 72, 156, 168
Subtlety of mind, vol. 89
Sympathy of working men, vol. 291.                                       Wesley, vol. 221.
                                                                            ii.

496 Index.

" Westward Ho ! " vol. i. 433-5                          " Words and Places," vol. ii. 247

West Indies, vol. ii. 305-14                             Wordsworth's writings, vol. 122
Whewell, Dr., vol. 227
                                                         Works of the flesh, Scriptural
                                                            Romish view, vol. 100
,                                                                                 i.                     and
     ,
Whitchurch, vol. ii.    175                                                                  i.
                      i.
                      i. i. ii.Whittier, John C,vol.ii.424Worship in church and open air, vol.           L

                           ii.letter from, vol. ii. 445  101
                                    i.

                                                      ;

                                                    ii.
Wilberforce, Bishop, vol. ii. 408                                                 ii.
Wind moaning, vol. 99                                    cathedral, 319

 Windsor Castle, vol. ii. 71                             "Yeast," vol.
'Woman's work, vol. 453
                                                                          attack
        rights, vol. ii. 326-30                                                   "219, 285-6            vol. ii. 16
                                                                                                       Guardian,"
                                                                                  on, in the
Wood, Dean, vol. 96                                      ,

Rev. Peter, vol. 96 vol.                                            i. i.
                                                                         i.

                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                      ;
                                                         and reply, vol. 282

20,415                                                   Yorkshire, vol. 135 vol. ii. 57-9

Woolwich lecture, vol. 371-4                             Yosemite Valley, vol. ii. 436

                                          FINIS.

        BRADBURY, AGNRW,               &  CO., TRINTKRS, WHITKFRIARS, LONDON.

