Memoir of the late Alfred Smee, F.R.S. / by his daughter ; with a
selection from his miscellaneous writings.

E. M. O. (Elizabeth Mary Odling)
London : George Bell and Sons, York Street, Covent Garden, 1878.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t9959f45s

                                          Public Domain in the United States
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address.
** . L

        T*
           MEMOIR

                                                  OF THE LATE

ALFBED SMEE, F.B.S.
          MBMOIE

                                                    OF THE LATE

ALFKED SMEE, E.E.S.

                                                                    BY

                   HIS DAUGHTER.

                          WITH A SELECTION FROM HIS

     MISCELLANEOUS WKITINGS.

GEOEGE              LONDON:             STREET,

        BELL AND SONS, YOKE

                    COVENT GARDEN.

                                 1878.
                              LONDON :
PBINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,

        STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
                   PREFACE.

IIT is with much diffidence that submit this Memoir to the

public. It was undertaken partly as a duty to the memory of

my father, partly in the belief that it would not be unacceptable
to the many readers of his different works. His pursuits, indeed,
were so earnest and various, and his writings extended over such
a wide range of subjects, that some account, however imperfect,
of his doings, and some selection, however incomplete, from his

Iwritings, could not, felt, be without interest to the general

reader.

   I was further desirous to bring under public notice a record

of my father's inventions and researches, especially in that
branch of science to which he first gave the name of Electro-
Metallurgy. His treatise on this subject, which went through
several editions, has long been out of print. From it has been
taken the introductory chapter on the history of Electro-Metal-
lurgy, included in the present selection.

   I have devoted considerable space, also, to the enunciation

and discussion of my father's views on Mental Philosophy, and
have extracted several passages from ' The Mind of Man,' his
last work on this his favourite subject, and the last published
work of his life.

     The numerous scientific papers, lectures, pamphlets, anony-
mous and other writings of my father have also furnished con-
tributions to the present volume. Artists will find something
to interest them in his remarks on binocular vision, and on the
methods resorted to by various eminent painters to produce

                       2065774
VI PKEFACE.

effects whereby the results of binocular perspective are more
or less successfully imitated.

    In connection with the potato disease, the views put forth

by the subject of this Memoir in 1845-47 receive fresh interest
from the confirmation afforded them by the recent researches of
Mr. Worthington Smith.

     My father's knowledge of gardening and love for natural
history in all its branches meet with frequent illustration. Some
account more especially is given of the experimental garden
which he formed at Wallington, in Surrey, now, indeed, become
almost of celebrity through his well-known book entitled ' My

G-arden.' It may interest many to know that this garden is

still kept up, in tribute to its founder's memory, by my brother,
Mr. Alfred Hutchison Smee.

                                                                             E. M. 0.
CONTENTS.

                               CHAPTEE I.
                            -AGE TO 161818 TO 1834.

1818.' Alfred Smee, born June 18th Family Infancy His love for fruit
        Is precocious Goes to St. Paul's School His natural power of

     observation displayed as a boy Fights a bully Other traits in his
    character as a boy An adept in climbing trees Ignorant of all games

         Love of animals shown Dislikes cruelty to dumb creatures

CHAPTER II.

AGE 16 TO 211834 TO 1839.

1834. Leaves St. Paul's School, age sixteen, and becomes a medical student

at King's College, London. 1836. Distinguishes himself at King's

College Takes the first prize for Chemistry. 1837. Takes the first

prize for Anatomy and the first prize for Physiology His answers in

Divinity. 1838. Reads his first paper before the Geological Society,
' On the State in which Animal Matter is usually found in Fossils '

   His second paper, 'On the Chemical Nature of the External
Envelope of the Frog's Spawn ' Leaves King's College and goes to

St. Bartholomew's, where he carries off the prize for Surgery Nearly

loses the sight of one eye by a chemical experiment. 1839. Invents

'
   '

                          '
                               '
                                                                                               '

                                                                        it,

                                                                                                 '
                                                                                        a
a form of splint for fractures, and writes a paper on                                                                  On the

Formation of Moulding Tablets for Fractures' Also one on 'Gutta

Percha Splints His paper on Photogenic Drawing Reads paper

before the Royal Society, On the Structure of Normal and Adven-

titious Bone His experiment-book Account-book Laboratory

Life at the Bank of England His love of music

                              CHAPTER III.

                                    AGE 22 TO 241840 TO 1842.

1840. Twenty-second year of his age " Smee's Battery " Marriage of
    Alfred Smee, June 2nd Paper 'On the Ferrosesquicyanuret of
    Potassium' His first book, published in December, on 'Electro-
    Metallurgy His researches in that science Gives the name Electro-
     Metallurgy. 1841. Letter of Brande, the chemist Alfred Smee gives
        lecture at the Royal Institution, January 26th, On the Laws
    regulating the Voltaic Precipitation of Metals His specimens in
     Electro-Metallurgy shown at various places The coppered cucumber
a
                          '

                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                               '
VU l CONTENTS.

Lectures before the Numismatic Society, 21st January, on Electro-                 PAGE
                                                                                     16
Metallurgy Elected Surgeon to the Bank of England Elected Fellow

of the Royal Society, 10th June, in the twenty-third year of his age.

1842. Elected Surgeon to the Royal General Dispensary, Aldersgate
Street Paper ' On the New Definition of the Voltaic Circuit, with
Formulas for ascertaining its Power under different Circumstances '

Writes various medical papers Makes a durable writing ink. 1843.
Lecture at the Royal Institution, ' On the Cause of the Reduction of

Metals when Solutions of      their Salts are subjected to the    Galvanic
Current ' Paper ' On the      Inhalation of Ammonia Gas as a      Remedial

Agent'

                              CHAPTER IV.                                         25

                                   AGE 25 TO 291843 TO 1847.

1843. ' Sources of Physics ' (book), published 1st September Is Lecturer to
    the Aldersgate School of Medicine. 1844. His introductory lecture
    His lecture ' On the Detection of Needles impacted in the Human
     Frame.' 1845. Paper ' On the New Application of Electricity to
     Surgery ' Paper ' On Vessels in Fat smaller than the Capillaries '
    His carmine injections Visit to Switzerland. 1845-46-47. Potato
     disease. 1846. Publishes ' The Potato Plant, its Uses and Properties,
     together with the Cause of the Present Malady ' (book) Corre-
     pondence on the Potato disease Rancorous animosity and skits on
    A. S. Aphis vastator, nomenclature of. 1847. Famine Food soiree
     Lecture at the London Institution on the ' Potato Plant ' Skeleton
     of the lecture drawn up by Alfred Smee Prepares many hundred
     microscopical preparations of aphides and slices of diseased potato
     Their use in 1876 Last researches on the potato disease The rate at
     which aphides multiply Alfred Smee is engaged on the ventilation
     of large buildings Invents an ether-inhaler .. .. .. ..

                              CHAPTER V.

        AGE 30 TO 31-1848 TO 1849.

1848. Publishes ' The Eye in  Health     and Disease ' (book)  '    Smee's opto-  .
     meter Smee's horizontal  fish-tail   burners Sheet of        Directions for
Accidents and Emergencies ' Royal Society : Mr. Smee's opinion on                  38

its reducing its number of Fellows ; also on the system by which the

publication of learned papers are determined Paper 'On Electric

Light and Gas Companies,' &c. Personal appearance of Alfred Smee
Love of his family His powers of abstraction His untidiness Indif-

ference to dress His walk Jingling keys Quick temper Quick in
action Sensitive to a slight Not jealous Impatient of opposition

Disliked arguments Expected others to have the same quickness of

apprehension as himself Worked for others Disposition Never feared
responsibility His dislike of routine work His charity Genial and

social Loved society, yet disliked the London season being in summer

His readings Keen sense of imagination and of fun .. .. ..
CONTENTS.                                                                   IX

CHAPTER VI.

                                    AGE 31 TO 361849 TO 1854.               PAGE

1849. ' Electro-Biology ' is published (book) Lecture on Electro-Biology       50
     ' Principles of the Human Mind ' Article on ' Gutta-percha and its
    Uses' The Cholera, article on. 1850. 'Instinct and Reason'
    (book) Why written Sketch of the general plan of the work
    Smee's hot and cold detector. 1851. Third edition of ' Electro-Metal-
     lurgy ' brought out, and Alfred Smee also publishes ' The Process of
     Thought' (book) Relational and differential machines Writes long
    articles in the 'Illustrated London News' and in the 'Morning
     Chronicle' Article on Wardian cases, and on plants that can be
     grown in London or a smoky town Lectures at Newbury and else-
    where Writes a Memoir of Wyon First visit to Paris Is an angler
        Is a regular attendant at St. Paul's Cathedral Power of prayer . .

CHAPTER VII.

AGE 36 TO 401854 TO 1858.

1854. Second edition of the 'Eye' Binocular Perspective Soiree

On Education Is the originator of the educational lectures at the

London Institution, and delivers the first of them there, for which

he draws up a diagram showing the faculties of the human mind

at different periods of life Alfred Smee originates and establishes a

new form of printing the Bank of England note. 1856. Letters to the
Society of Arts' Journal on the ' Practical Application of the Decimal
Coinage,' and on the ' Relation between Decimal Coins and Weights
and Measures.' 1857. Lecture at the London Institution on ' The

Monogenesis of Physical Forces' Visit to Paris. 1858. Eclipse of

the sun Experiments at Blisworth with Smee's photometer ..       ..         63

CHAPTER VIII.

AGE 41 TO 481859 TO 1866.

1859. ' Debility and Defective Nutrition ' is published (book) To Switzer-
     land Making of garden at Wallington The Saturday reunions

Sewage Croydon Local Board Injunctions against, extending over

some years. 1866. Water supply and pre-existing sewage. 1860 to

1865. Proposed spoliation of Finsbury Circus by railways Import-

ance of gardens for London Advocates for trees to be" planted along

the Thames Embankment. 1860. Introduces the French system of

pisciculture into England His fish-breeding house at Wallington

Alfred Smee was a sportsman as well as a fisherman, and also fond of

yachting. 1861. He was the first in England to discover the comet of

June 30th, 1861. 1862. Effect on hearing a sermon Writes an
anonymous pamphlet on ' Reasons for not hanging Garrotters and
Burglars ' Other anonymous satires from his pen. 1863. Controversy

with the Oratorians Private and secret burial-grounds, &c. . .   ..         69
                              CONTENTS.

                              CHAPTEK IX.

                AGE 46 TO 521864 TO 1870.

1864-65. Alfred Smee contests Rochester Election in 1865 Anony-                  PACE
    mous pamphlets ' The Puppet Parliament,' and ' The Final Reform
                                                                                    92
    Bill 'Becomes a Freemason. 1866. Projected movement for the

City of London College School to be associated with the London
Institution defeated hy Alfred Smee Visit to Paris Writes a letter

to Dr. Gray, F.R.S., of the British Museum, and strongly advocates a

large aquarium to he established at the Zoological Gardens Describes
                                                                      ' Times,'
the   Moonnde"  de la Mer at  Paris Writes    several letters to the  remedy.
&c.,            Locked-up     Money," for   which he suggests a

1867. Brings out another form of ' Accident Sheet,' which is illustrated

by woodcuts Professional life of Alfred Smee. 1868. Illness, and

goes to Whitby There nicknamed the Professor of Ferns Writes a

letter to Mr. Gassiot on the importance of posting up weather telegrams

at Whitby Another election at Rochester Letters to his family from

Rochester Why defeated Speech at complimentary dinner given to
him at Rochester His speeches How delivered. 1870. Visits Italy,

and returns with plants and ferns found in that country Extracts from

letters to his son on the states of vegetation in Italy, &c. Various

anonymous papers written at different periods of his life ' On the
Unseaworthiness of Ships ' ' On Chancery Reform,' &c.
                                                                      .. ..

                              CHAPTER X.

                AGE 52 TO 571870 TO 1875.

1871. ' The Widow and the Rabbits,' a fairy legend, is published anony-
                              1870. Letter to the ' Times ' on
mously (book) Extracts from.
St. Saviour's church being struck by lightning Letter on the aurora

borealis which occurred the 26th October, 1870. 1872. Letter to the
' Times ' on a violent gale, in which he urges the invention of cheap
barometers for the use of fishermen Letter to the ' Times ' on Brixton
church being struck by lightning ' My Garden ' is published (book)

   Plan of work Lectures delivered at the London Institution A

'Gossip on Gardening:' why given Village fete at his garden, at

which he gave prizes to the school children for collections of wild

flowers Alfred Smee is an active supporter of flower shows, or rather

the exhibitions of window plants grown within the City The prizes he

gave Letters to his daughter, showing the activity of his character

and his love for Nature. 1874. He attends an International Botanical

Congress at Florence, as representative of the Royal Horticultural
Society of England, and reads a paper at the Congress on ' The best
Varieties of Fruits cultivated in England ' More letters to his daughter

from abroad Again contests Rochester Presentation of plate Speech

Letter, &c. 1875. Letters on the manner the Members for Council

of the Royal College of Surgeons are elected .. .. .. ,.                         105
CONTENTS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Xi

CHAPTEB XI.

                                              57TH YEAR OF HIS AGE 1875.                                                                                                                                                                PAOK

April, 1875. ' The Mind of Man ' is published (last book) Plan of work                                                                                                                                                                  126
         Extracts from. 1873-1876. Sewage question Alfred Smee's views

    on Correspondence on milk, typhoid fever, and sewage. 1873. Paper
     read before the Health Section of the Social Science Congress at
    Norwich. 1875. Paper read before the Society of Arts on 'Proposed
     Heads of Legislation for the Regulation of Sewage Grounds ' Alfred
    Smee's reply to the discussion, January 1876 .. .. .. ..

CHAPTER XII.

AGE 57 TO 581876 TO 1877.

Book on Fishing Hard working Letters from abroad Letters to the                                                                                                                                                                         134

   Ro'NrTiovdivmeinereams;ryb"'e"arOn,cdt1Do8vbe7aea6rrthi,ou1hos7ifstnAhe,llwfarsse"ptdaOppnSeumrbsleDise:ihs,AteJruadibgnuuuletsaittotrney1r7ltlhoot,fnh1,S"8e17Be86di7r,sd7o-,ncbaayg"tceAhdPinaHfingfottmyh-eeiecrxisigtdrha;at"l-

        Buried at St. Mary's, Beddington, Surrey, within sight of his garden,
    January 16th, 1877

                           [APPENDIX.

                                  c
Ill CONTENTS.

                         APPENDIX.

No.    YEAR.             On the State in which Animal Matter is usually                                 PAGE
       1838.
  I.                                                                                                    143
                                                                                                        145
 II. 1838.               found in Fossils. Paper .. .. .. ..                                             147
III. 1839.                                                                                               151
                         On the Chemical Nature of the external Envelope of                              157

                         the Frog's Spawn. Paper.. .. .. ..                                              164
                                                                                                         172
IIlA. 1839.              On the Formation of Moulding Tablets for Fractures ;                            174
                            and On Gutta-percha Splints (1846). Papers . .                               181
                                                                                                         187
                         On the Structure of Normal and Adventitious Bone.                               188
                                                                                                         194
                         Paper            ..  ..   ..    ..  ..                                 ..
                                                                                                         199
IV. 1839.                On Photogenic Drawing. Paper                                                    213
 V. 1840.                                                                                                221
                         On the Principle, Construction, and Use of Smee's
                                                                                                         225
                         Battery ; its various Forms, with full Directions for                           227
                                                                                                         235
                         its Manipulation, more especially in the Processes                              252
                                                                                                         255
                         of Electro-Metallurgy. Transcribed from Paper                                   260
                         read before Society of Arts, and from ' Electro-                                26^

                         Metallurgy,' &c. .. .. .. .. ..

  VI.  1840.             On the Production of Electrotypes. Paper..                             ..
 VII.  1840.
       1840.             On the Ferrosesquicyanuret of Potassium. Paper..
VIII.
                         History of Electro-Metallurgy, with the Researches

                         of Alfred Smee in that science  ..  ..                                 ..

IX.                      Eeceipt of a Writing Ink
 X. 1843.
XI. 1843.                On the Cause of the Reduction of Metals. Paper . .

                         On the Inhalation of Ammonia Gas as a remedial

XII. 1843.               Agent. Paper         ..   ..    ..  ..                                 ..

                         The Sources of Physical Science. Plan of the book.

                         (This plan was not written by ALFRED SMEE.)
                         With the concluding Chapters of ' Sources of

  XIII. 1844.            Physical Science.' (By ALFRED SMEE) . .                                ..
  XIV. 1844.
                         Introductory Lecture delivered at the Aldersgate
  XV.A. 1847.
                         School of Medicine. Lecture .. .. ..
   XV.B. 1847.
                         On the Detection of Needles and other Steel Instru-
               1846-47.
                         ments impacted in the Human Body. Lecture ..
   XV.c. 1876.           An Account
   XVI. 1849.               the title of  o" fFathme invearioFuosodB"reaatdsMre.xhSimbieteed's  under
                                                                                                house.
  XVII. 1849.
XVII.A. 1849.              (This account was not written by ALFRED SMEE) . .
                         On the Potato Disease and the Aphis vastator.

                         Lecture .. .. .. .. .. ..

                         Also Monthly Reports and Correspondence on Aphides

                         Recent Researches on the Potato Disease. (This was
                         not written by ALFRED SMEE)
                                                         ..  ..                                 ..

                         Electro-Biology. Plan of the Book. (This was not
                         written by ALFRED SMEE) .. .. .. ..
                         On Electro-Biology; or, the Voltaic Mechanism of

                         Man. Lecture         ..   ..    ..  ..                                 ..

                         Principles of the Human Mind deduced from Phy-

                         sical Laws. Pamphlet .. .. .. ..
                             CONTENTS.                                      Xlll

     No. YKAE.     On the Production of Cholera by insufficient Drain-

XVIII. 1849.

XIX.               age. Paper .. .. .. .. .. ..                             276
 XX.                                                                        279
XXI.     1854.     Investigations in Binocular Perspective, with rules . .  283
         1853.
         1854.     On Education. Letter      .. .. .. ..                    289

                   Introductory Discourse on the Objects and Advan-         299
                                                                            317
XXII. 1854.        tages of Educational Lectures. Lecture ..      ..
                                                                            326
                   On the new Bank of England Note, and the Sub-            328

XXIII. 1857.       stitution of Surface Printing from Electrotypes          332
XXIV. 1858.        for Copper-plate Printing. Paper.. .. ..
                                                                            343
  XXV. 1867-69.    On the Monogenesis of Physical Forces. Lecture . .       347
XXVI. 1863.                                                                 350
XXVII. 1863.       On the Eclipse of the Sun. (Experiments with             354
                                                                            357
                   Smee's photometer.) Letter    .. ..            ..
                                                                            358
                   On the Water Supply of London. Speech, Letters . .       362
                                                                            366
                   Rejoinder to the Manifesto of Dr. Dalgairns, Principal
                                                                            374
                     of the Oratory, &c. Pamphlet
                   On the Practical Remedy for Extortion and Intimi-        382
                                                                            394
                     dation practised by the aid of the Superior Law
                                                                            403
XXVIII.            Courts. Pamphlet: ANON.       .. .. ..                   415
  XXIX.
   XXX.  1864.     The Puppet Parliament. Pamphlet : ANON.        ..
  XXXI.  1864.     The Final Reform Bill. Pamphlet : ANON.
 XXXII.  1866.                                                    ..

                   On Locked-up Money. Letters . . . . . .

                   Various Letters : ANON. .. .. .. ..

                   On the Unseaworthiness of Ships sent to Sea.

XXXIII.            Letters: ANON.  ..        ..  ..     ..        ..
XXXIV. 1871.
 XXXV. 1868-74.    On Chancery Reform. Letters : ANON.  ..        ..

                   A Gossip about Gardening. .Lecfawe   ..        ..

                   Part of two Speeches delivered at Rochester.

                   Speeches  ..          ..  ..  ..     ..        ..

XXXVI.A. 1873-76.  Milk, Typhoid Fever, and Sewage, Correspondence

                   on. Letters .. .. .. .. .. ..

XXXVI.B. 1873.     On Sewage, Sewage Produce, and Disease. Paper
XXXVI.c. 1875.
                   Proposed Heads of Legislation for the Regulation

                   of Sewage Grounds. Paper      .. .. . .

         1876.     Reply to the Discussion of the above. Speech   ..
                    LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

F'G-                              .. ....                     Frontispiece.    PACK
       PORTRAIT ..                                                 .. ..
                                                                    .. ..         13
1. Alfred Smee's working-room in the Bank of England ..                           37
                                                                    .. ..        38
2. Smee's Ether-inhaler   .. .. .. .. ..                            .. ..        39
                                                                   .. ..         54
3. Optometer .. .. .. .. .. .. ..                                              135
                                                                      To face  137
4. Gas-burner and jet     .. .. .. .. ..                           .. ..

5. Hot and cold Detector  ..      ..  ..  ..              ..

6. Alfred Smee, with his son, fishing in the Thames       ..

GA. Roman coin found at Clermont .. .. .. ..

 7. View of St. Mary's, Beddington, from the Garden       ..       To face 141
7 A. The Grave of Alfred Smee                                                      142

8. Smee's Battery, compound six cells .. .. .. .. .. 169

..1709. Smee's Battery, for Electrotype .. .. .. .. ..
10. Smee's Odds-and-Ends Battery
                                                                               170

11. Covered wire, as generally used for the formation of Electro-magnets.. 222

12. Electro-magnet                                                             223

13. Magnetized Needle, for discovering needles within the body ..  .. 224

14. Resting-spores of the Potato Fungus within an Aphis .. .. .. 254

15. Resting-spores of the Potato Fungus within the cellular tissue of

Potatoes                                                                       254

16. Illustration showing the Interpenetration of Objects when seen by
two eyes, and the geometrical law on which it is founded . .
                                                                   ..          280

17. Diagram of the Faculties of the Human Mind at different Periods of

Life                                                                           291

18. Smee's Photometer                 .. .. 326

          LIST OF BOOKS BY ALFRED SMEE.

              YEAB
No. PUBLISHED.

  I. 1840. Elements of Electro-Metallurgy.
II. 1843. Sources of Physical Science.
III. 1846. The Potato Plant : its Uses and Properties ; together with

                       the Cause of the present Malady.,

IV. 1848. The Eye in Health and Disease.

V. 1849. Elements of Electro-Biology.
  VI.
 VII.     1850.     Instinct and Reason.
VIII.     1851.     Process of Thought.
          1859.     Debility and Defective Nutrition.

IX. 1871. Fairy Legend : The Widow and the Rabbits. ANON.

X. 1872. My Garden.
XI. 1875. The Mind of Man.
XII. 1876-77. A Book on Fishing.      (Not completed.)
   MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.

                           CHAPTEE I.

                                                  1818 TO 1834.

Alfred Smec born June 18th, 1818 Family Infancy Love for fruit Goes to
     St. Paul's School His natural power of observation displayed as a boy
     Fights a bully Other traits in his character as a boy An adept in climbing
     trees Ignorant of all games Love of animals shown Dislikes cruelty to
     dumb creatures.

ALFRED SMEE, the subject of this biography, was born on the
anniversary of the battle of Waterloo, the 18th of June, 1818.
He was the second son of William Smee, who held the position of
Accountant-General to the Bank of England. The Smee family
is derived from an ancient English stock. From the time of

Charles I. the family was to be found in the county of Suffolk ;
previously to the turbulent times of the Civil Wars, they crossed

Ithe country from the north. Many curious traditions exist in

the family ; but as am not writing the history of the Smees,
but of one of its members only, there is no need here to narrate

them. It suffices therefore here to say that my father's great-

grandfather was a man of considerable influence and wealth in
the county of Suffolk, and was, like the rest of the family, a

Istaunch Tory ; his high character and integrity were known to

all around him. He was, as have heard, on intimate terms with
Sir Hans Sloane and with Lord North, and he knew also the
renowned Wedgwood. On the tombstone of this ancestor of ours
are the significant and laconic words : " An honest man."

     Alfred Smee's father, William Smee, was being educated at
St. John's College, Cambridge, when family misfortunes obliged

Ihim to leave the University to seek his own livelihood. have

heard my grandfather ,say how he wept on the bridge at
Cambridge at the thought of being obliged to leave that aca-
demical town. Had Lord North not been dismissed from office,
2  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                            [CHAP. I.

my grandfather would have had a good government appoint-
ment given to him ; however, that was not to be, and so William

Smee entered the service of the Bank of England. He, like

his grandfather, bore a high character for integrity ; and that,

coupled with uncommon talents and an iron will, made him re-

spected and esteemed throughout the mercantile community of

the City of London. On his death a long resolution was passed

at the Court of Directors                      of the Bank of England, testifying to
tthioens""hiinghthientedgisrcithyargoef        character and his indefatigable exer-
                                         his
                                           of   his duties, and to the high esteem in

which he was held by all who knew him. Some years previously

the directors wished him to become a member of their body, but

my grandfather declined this honour ; and when the time for

the election drew near, he disqualified himself from becoming a

director by withdrawing certain sums of money from the Bank

Istock, and so remained in his old position. Whether he acted

in this case wisely may, think, be considered an open question.

When William Smee was between thirty and forty years of age,

he married a young Suffolk lady of the name of Kay, and she

was ever to him a wise, frugal, and an intelligent companion.
For several years they resided in a house of their own at Cam-
berwell, and it was here, amidst fields and trees and orchards

(for Camberwell fifty-eight years ago was very different to the
Camberwell of the present day), that Alfred Smee was born, and
spent the first few years of his life.

   As a child, Alfred Smee was singularly precocious, and, like

many precocious children, gave, as my grandmother used to say,
a great deal of trouble to his nurse; indeed, that unfortunate

   a
     a

                                                                  a

                                                             it,

                                                   if
attendant must have had a very hard time of                          the various

anecdotes that my grandmother was wont to tell about this

madcap boy are to be credited. From his earliest years
Alfred Smee had an inordinate love for fruit, to obtain which

he would but too frequently rise with the sun, and, eluding
the vigilance of the servants, stroll into the garden, climb the

trees, and satisfy himself to his heart's content. One day, as

my grandfather was walking in his garden, his attention was
attracted to peach-tree full of fruit, which was just ripe. To

his dismay small piece was bitten out of every peach, and all
the fruit bore unmistakable signs of child's teeth. Little

Alfred, who was by his side at the time, and who was then

about four years old, could not forbear inquiring into the fact

whether snails have teeth. Besides an excessive love for fruit,
CHAP. I.]                    FIGHTS A BULLY.                                        3

which remained with him till the last, my father ever had

from infancy a great love of natural history in all its branches.
When he was four years old, through running and over-heating
himself on a hot day in June, in a hay-field, after a favourite

rabbit that had escaped from its hutch, he became ill with what

was then supposed to be a kind of croup, but which proved to
be the first attack of hay-fever, a complaint of rare occurrence

at that time ; but from that summer to a late period of his life
he was always a great sufferer from that disagreeable disorder.

    In my grandfather's account-book for June 18th, 1823, is the

following entry, which shows the far-seeing character of the

former in the estimation of his second son's abilities, this son

being at the time five years old.

IThis day have transferred "10 Imperial 3 per Cent. Annuity into the
names of William Smee, of the Bank, Gentleman, and Alfred Smee, of
ICamberwell, Gentleman.
                             have been much gratified with the good con-
Iduct and zeal displayed by my dear Alfred in his studies, and hope the
IAlmighty will continue such dispositions, which confidently think will
lead to a brilliant result.

     After my grandfather had left Camberwell to reside at the
Bank of England, my father went, as did his elder brother, to

St. Paul's School. At that school, which prides itself on having

educated Milton, Marlborough, and many distinguished men,

Alfred Smee did not shine as a scholar ; but notwithstanding his

want of book learning, he left a mark, and at St. Paul's School his

name is held in respect. As a schoolboy his powers for natural

observation were a strong feature in his character. One of my

father's schoolfellows (afterwards one of our judges) amused him
one day by telling him that, on first coming to school, Alfred

Smee's first words to him were, "What a long back you have got!"

The other boys were questioning him on his name, age, parentage,
"I&c.,

have
bouftteno,n" lyadAdlefdredtheSmjuedegen, ot"icleadughtehdis  peculiarity of his.    of
                                                             over this observation

yours."                                           his prowess
                                                  older than
    While he  was a  small   "boysomate  school,               was shown by
thrashing a   " big                        years               himself ; and
                     bully

though Alfred Smee was not a fighting boy, and small and

unskilful in the art, yet his temper could not brook the im-

perious  tones of a bully. The unfortunate boy who had incurred
his ire  was wofully " mauled," to the delight of the rest of the

school. Another trait of his character we see in the following

anecdote. At the time he was at St. Paul's, the schoolroom clock

                                                               B2
4              MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                   [CHAI-. 1.

was fast, consequently the boys got into trouble for coming late.

The clockmaker was made aware of the fact, but several mornings

passed, and the clock was not set right. In my father's class the

master was very strict, and, quite ignoring that the fault lay in

the clock, caned the unfortunate boys for being late. This was

more than young Smee could submit to it was an injustice ; he
accordingly hit upon the following expedient to set right such

a dismal order of affairs. He persuaded the classes under his

master to march up Cheapside in single file to the clockmaker's at

the   Eoyal    Exchange. Then every boy in turn,        asaccyo, r"diPnlgeasteo,  his
age,   was to  enter the shop, and taking off his cap,                            sir,

master's compliments, and will you put the schoolroom clock

right ?" At first the man was very civil, but as naturally may

be supposed, after about the tenth boy had appeared with the

same message, he became excessively irate. Young Sniee entered

      hnseohtospaw,yas?ia"twtwoathsseatyhfeuanreyyatgthheiner gin,mqbaunuirtywr.aussh"einOd,hm,ounatdoetohfianthgwe,r"ysrhefoappcle.ieda"tyWohuhinmagt,
Ithe

did
did
Smee. In went the next boy (a very stupid boy have heard, who
turned out badly in life), but it was too late : the man, exasperated

beyond all endurance, caught him and thrashed him. Off went

then the boys round the Exchange, running in and out of the legs

of the sober merchants, and finished their amusement, much to

the discomfiture of that respectable body of citizens. It is

almost needless to add that the schoolroom clock was speedily set

right, and though the clockmaker made a complaint to the master,

yet the latter was too much amused with the story to chastise

the boys for their audacious expedient. After this adventure it

was a long time before St. Paul's schoolroom clock went again
in advance of Greenwich time.

     About the same time a very favourite amusement of Alfred

Smee's was to climb trees. In this accomplishment he excelled.

He would climb the highest trees where no other boy would
venture, and, to use his own expression, weave in and out the

branches, swaying the while like a bird, and ascending, and
ascending, until he reached the topmost branch ; when, waving his
cap to his schoolfellows below, it was duly acknowledged by that
august assembly that he had done "their dads." One poor
boy, however, tried to emulate him, but not being so skilful,
fell into a pond of water beneath, from the effects of which

he died; and so young Smee remained undisputed master of

the trees.
CHAP. I.]  LOVE OF ANIMALS SHOWN.  5

     With cricket or other amusements of schoolboys my father
never meddled. In after-life he never entered into such recreation

as billiards, backgammon, or whist, or any other game. Strange
though it may seem, yet he was ignorant of any of the games
belonging to cards, and not only did he not know their names,
but he was also totally ignorant of the names of the cards

themselves.

     While he was a schoolboy, as at other periods of his life, he
was extremely fond of animals and birds. Not many days before
my father's death, an old schoolfellow of his came to see him, and he

talked with him about the innumerable rabbits in hutches simple
contrivances, all made by young Alfred Smee that he used to go
and see in a court of the Bank, between the hours of school.
Here it should be stated, that from early boyhood my father

showed a great aptitude for carpentry. A few old boxes, and

a few pieces of wood, nails, a saw, gimlet, hammer, and a few
of the like common implements, were sufficient for him to
make many ingenious contrivances. We have still an old table
that had a fractured leg, which was bound up and mended by

Ihim when he was but a boy of eight years old, and think

even an indifferent person would admit that a grown-up man, or
even a carpenter, could scarcely have done the job better.

     Besides keeping innumerable rabbits at the Bank, he used

also to keep some pigeons. In one of the anecdotes in ' Instinct

and Keason/ he relates how he once, on leaving London for some
days, left the birds in charge of a servant. Upon returning, the
first question naturally asked was, as to the health of the favourite

birds.

   I IBut (says lie) received the startling answer, " Lor', indeed, sir, never
Ionce thought of them." Their fate seemed inevitable ; and up ran to the
Idovecot, to confirm, as thought, my worst fears. To my astonishment,

however, all the birds were in good health. The young ones looked fat, and
the old ones had built new nests, although not a particle of food nor a drop
of water was to be found. As the birds had done so long without food and

Iwater, thoiight they could not hurt by waiting a little longer, and there-
Ifore determined to see what they did. After a little time the birds
Ibecame uneasy, and, after pluming their feathers, they all flew off.
Iwatched them as far as the eye could reach, and could trace them beyond

Shoreditch Church ; and after an hour and a half they came back. There
is no doubt that they had flown off to the fields for food, and thus were not
the least the worse for the servant's inattention.

     Besides pigeons and rabbits, young Smee had, when a boy,
other pets. One of these was a magpie, who used to be allowed
6         MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                                                        [CHAP. I.

his liberty in the room where Alfred Smee and his elder
brother were having their early breakfast, before the rest of

the family, previous to their setting off to St. Paul's School,
where the boys had to be, at those times, by 8 o'clock. This

magpie was, like his young master, partial to buttered toast, and
he would hop about the table, making a good breakfast. When
Mr. Mag had partaken of as much toast as was consistent with
his comfort, he would betake himself to tease the dog, who was

basking before the fire, by hopping up to the poor beast and
awakening him by a violent tug at his tail. At first the

drowsy dog would just raise his head, give a growl, and would go

to sleep again, upon which Mr. Mag would repeat the same dis-

agreeable operation. When, after several repetitions of the like

affront,. the poor dog would be fairly roused from his slumbers,

then   tchreyinmga,gp"ieMaugs,edmatog,  hop round  the  room  in                          a  state  of  exulta-
tion,                                    mag !"

   But this dog was not always doomed to be made miserable,

for my father and his brother were fond of taking him to bed

with them, although it was strictly forbidden them to do so.
IAs this anecdote is forcibly given in ' Instinct and Keason ' as an

example of reason in animals, will quote the rest from that

work.

   The mamma was determined to stop the practice, went at night into the

room, and turned the dog out, and he was compelled to sneak down stairs

with tail between his legs. On the next night, however, the boys put the

dog into one of the drawers and shut him up, so that, when the mamma

came, no dog was found, and the boys afterwards took him to bed. The

dog seemed fully to appreciate the boys' movements, and used perfectly to
fall in with their plans. Some nights, indeed, the dog was discovered, but

Ifgenerally he was hid up in such an ingenious manner that he was not dis-
covered.  the dog was called or whistled he took no notice, but used to
lie perfectly quiet till the boys took him out of his hiding-place.

   IMy father always retained his love for animals, and incul-
cated that love in his own children.                    suppose few other children

    any) have been brought up from infancy with so many kinds
of birds, animals, reptiles, and fishes. We had pets in thrushes,
(if
               it

                                                                                       a
blackbirds, canaries, goldfinches, bullfinches, and even- nightin-

gales; we had pets in pigeons, pheasants, godwits, magpies,
sea-gulls, owls, and hawks. We kept, at different times of our

infancy, pet dogs, cats, guinea-pigs, and, amongst many other

animals too numerous to enumerate here, was domesticated wild

rabbit. This rabbit used to be allowed to come out at dessert-

time, when would immediately jump up on the table, and glide
CHAP. I.]  DISLIKES CRUELTY TO DUMB CREATURES.                                                                                     7

so dexterously in and out among the glass, that it never brokeit,
one or even knocked a wine-glass down, but would stop at thea it
plate of each person present until it received a piece of fruit,
after eating which it would continue its walk around the table,it

allowing everyone to pet and caress it.       aa
     This rabbit was specially fond of my -father, and he ofa

and great was the grief in the family when Bunny at last died ofa
                                                                                     a
old age. He kept pet hedgehogs and tortoises, and pet Guernsey                   aa
lizard, which would partake as l>onne louche of dish of black
beetles for breakfast. He had also at one time pet toad, which                           it,
was caught by my father during one of his walks in the wood

which formerly existed on the spot where the Crystal Palace
now stands. This toad was quite baby when he first became
possessed of but throve so thoroughly upon black beetles,
that in due course of time became full-grown toad, and lived

many years. My father took great liking to this toad, and

was wont, whenever friend dined with him, to show, as soon as

the cloth was removed, to the astonished guest the wonderful

powers which this creature possessed of seeing, and its rapidity
and unerring seizure of its prey. The unfortunate toad at last

met with an untimely death, through quarrel arising with the
Guernsey lizard over one delicious black beetle. The toad re-

ceived blow on the head from the lizard which paralysed it.

It lingered some time, but ultimately died from its effects. He

kept besides pet mice and even pet rat. The latter's favourite

place was in person's pocket, where he would remain for long
while quite still and comfortable. When he was tired of that
locality, he would walk out and sit upon the shoulder, and nestle

to person's neck. In this manner this rat used to frequently
perform little journeys through the streets of London but am

bound to say my father never took him out. The very goldfish

knew my father's voice, and when he whistled to them would
come up from amongst the various water-plants which were kept
in large tank in the greenhouse at the end of the garden of
Finsbury Circus, and take the food from his fingers. Others

might whistle to them, but the goldfish took no notice (though
    might even be at feeding time) of any other voice but that

of my father.
     Mr. Smee ever abhorred cruelty to animals, especially when

was occasioned through wanton wilfulness. But, on the other
hand, he considered that there are times when animals must

 suffer for the weal of man then morbid sentimentality ought
a
        a

                      a
                                                        a
                                                                    a

                                                                                                                                ;

                                                         Ia

it
      a
                                                                     ;

                                                                                     it
8  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  j[CHAP,

not to be permitted to step in to stop experiments which are
needful to he made, in order to obtain knowledge by which the
sufferings of the human race may be relieved ; at the same time
those experiments should be conducted in such a manner as to
cause as little suffering to the poor beast as it is practicable.
The best plan to prevent wanton cruelty to animals is to bring
up children from their tender years to love all the lower creatures,

and to teach them that God has made them all, and has implanted
into them feelings, curious instincts, and to a certain extent

reason.

     When a boy my father made a fair collection of insects, and a
collection of birds' eggs, both of which still exist. He also made
a collection of what fossils his limited resources could procure.
These are dispersed, but by the catalogue of them, which he
neatly wrote in a book, there seem to have been some interesting

specimens among them. In this book the names are given, the

stratum each specimen was found in, the locality, and whether

found by himself, or how otherwise procured.
CHAP. IT.]  LEAVES ST. PAUL'S SCHOOL.

                       CHAPTEE II.

                       1834 TO 1839.

Leaves St. Paul's School, age sixteen, and enters as a medical student at King's
     College, London Distinguishes himself at King's College; age seventeen
         Takes more prizes ; age nineteen Alfred Smee reads his first paper ;
     age twenty His second paper Leaves King's College and goes to St. Bar-
     tholomew's Hospital Takes more prizes in 1838 Invents a splint ; age
     twenty-one Experiment-book Account-book Laboratory Life at the
    Bank of England His love of music.

IN midsummer 1834, Alfred Smee left St. Paul's School, and in

October of the same year he commenced his studies for the

medical profession, and became a medical student of King's

College, London. Up to this time we have seen him as a boy

endowed with strong feelings, possessing a strong will, keen

susceptibilities, and an innate love for natural history ; a sharp

pair of eyes which nothing passed unheeded, a keen sense for fun,

an open and very generous disposition, and a kind heart towards

his fellow-creatures and the lower animals.

     But up to this period of his life he had not shown any dis-
position for book lore. His literature when a young boy was
limited, and it consisted principally of a few works on natural
history. For Gilbert White's 'History of Selborne' he ever

entertained an unbounded admiration, as he did also for the
immortal works of Shakspeare. By    ath"isreaitdinwgillmbaen."seenOf
Alfred Smee was not what is termed                                    that
                                                                       the
plays of Shakspeare the ' Tempest,' supposed to be the last

written by the poet, was his favourite. Perhaps it may not be

out of place here to mention that my father, to the last year of
his life, never ceased to speak of the marvellous and unrivalled
manner in which Shakspeare's plays were put on the stage by
Macready in 1839-40.*

   I* For a full account of the exquisite pains which Macready gave himself in

putting on the stage the plays of Shakspeare, refer the reader to the intcrestin"
diary of that tragedian, edited by Sir Frederick Pollock.
10  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. II.

     But to return to my subject. As a medical student, Alfred

Smee became studious. Indeed, from the moment he became one
he never ceased from the most laborious work. At the time my

father began his professional career, medical students, as a rule,
'were not all that could be desired. But too many of them were

addicted to idleness, drinking, and other vices ; and, indeed, they
had the character of being but too frequently very rough members
of society. Young Smee, however, though full of fun and of
buoyant spirits, was noted for his unexceptionable good conduct,

 steadiness, and sobriety, and was besides a most hard-working

 young man.*
      Alfred Smee had not been more than two years at King's

 College before he carried off the silver medal, the prize for
 Chemistry ; Professor Daniell, so well known to the scientific
 world as the inventor of a battery which bears his name, being
 professor at King's College at the time. The following year, in
 1837, Smee took the silver medal for Anatomy, Partridge being
 professor ; and he also took the silver medal for Physiology, Todd
 being professor. For the latter he used to prepare the experi-
 ments for the lectures which that distinguished physician deli-

 vered. In 1837 young Smee also contended for the theological
 prize at King's College. He lost it by one mark only, and it

 appeared that his answers on the one hand, and those of the
 winner of the prize on the other, were so even, that there were
 thoughts of giving two prizes, as the examiner, the Bishop of
 London's chaplain, said that the answers in divinity were so

Iexcellent as to entitle Alfred Smee to take orders for ordination.
   mention this fact particularly, as it shows how, at a very early

 period, my father's mind was imbued with religious thoughts,
 which hereafter proved a very remarkable feature in his

 character.

      On the 4th of April, 1838, Alfred Smee's first paper was read
 before the Geological Society ; it was ' On the State in which
 Animal Matter is usually found in Fossils,' and it was communi-
 cated by Professor Koyle of King's College. The paper will be
 found in the Appendix, No. of this work.

      In the following month, on the 26th of May, 1838, appeared

 in the London Medical Gazette the second paper from his pen.
    '

                                    I.,

                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                        a
     * In all the testimonials which Alfred Smee received from his masters
and professors, his extreme steadiness and good conduct, and the great talent
which he displayed in his various professional attainments, are made great
point of.
CHAP. II.]  INVENTS A SPLINT.                                                                                                            11

This was entitled ' On the Chemical Nature of the External En-

velope of the Frog's Spawn.' For this see the Appendix, No. II.

The same year Smee left King's College and entered his

name on the books at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. King's

College Hospital was not then erected, and therefore it was

essential for the aspirant to medical fame to gain practical

knowledge elsewhere. He became dresser to the eminent surgeon

Lawrence, and held the dressership a whole year. Alfred Smee

was not long at St. Bartholomew's before he carried off the

surgical prize, which consisted of three volumes of books by

Lawrence. As at King's College, so did young Smee distin-

guish himself at St. Bartholomew's by his good conduct, his

steadiness, and by his untiring industry. When he was only

eighteen years of age, he became engaged to a young lady, whom

he married shortly after he had finished his medical education.

In 1839, besides giving much attention to surgery, he also

employed himself upon chemistry, and some of his numerous

experiments were given to the public the following year.

Through an explosion which ensued in conducting one of these

varied experiments he met with an accident to one of his eyes,
which at the time it was feared would cost him the sight of it.

Through the skilful treatment of Sir William Lawrence, the eye

was saved, although that eminent surgeon had for two or three

days almost despaired of it.

Besides these experiments, Alfred Smee about this time

            '
                                         '

                                                                                      '
                                                                                                   '

                                                                                  it
                                                                                               it,
invented a form of splint for fractures, and wrote a paper on

which appeared in the London Medical Gazette of the 9th of

February, 1839. It was published also in the Lancet,' and was

also translated into French and into German. The title of the

paper was, On the Formation of Moulding Tablets for Fractures.'

The splint was tried in every hospital in the metropolis, and was

used at St. Bartholomew's, as well as in other hospitals. Some

years later (in 1846), after gutta-percha had come into use, he
invented modification of the above tablets, and the article on
'
                   a

                                          a
                                                            '

                                                                                    '
                                                                             '
                                                                                             '

                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                            '
Gutta Percha Splints was also published in the London

Medical Gazette.' Both these papers will be found in the

Appendix, No. III., of this work. Following these two papers

will also be found very curious paper on Photogenic Drawing,'

which he wrote in 1839, in the  Literary Gazette.'                                                                                     See the

Appendix, No. IV.

During the year 1839 the Experiment Book of Alfred

Smee shows that his mind was employed upon other subjects
12                   MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. II.

besides splints and surgery and photogenic drawings. He was
at work on the ' Contractility of Tissues,' which was intended to

be exemplified by many hundred experiments. He was at work
on ' Melanosis,' which was designed for a paper, but which was

abandoned before its completion for other more weighty subjects.

He was experimenting on inks. He was experimenting on a

waterproofing liquid. He was besides making his researches on
                     "onbatthteery' ,F"erarnodsewsqasuibcyesainduesrect arorfyiPnogtaosnsiuomthe;r'
his important paper
he was devising his

experiments relating to electro-metallurgy.

    By the account-book of Alfred Smee, we find that up to the

time he left school, when he was sixteen years old, he only

received ninepence a week for pocket-money.  This money

he carefully husbanded, and expended on retorts and other ne-

cessaries for chemical experiments. Even after he became a

medical student he had not more than 30 a year, which had

to suffice for the expenses of his wardrobe, for obtaining objects

Ifor dissecting, and for the various other objects required to
carry on his numerous researches.  have heard my father say

how pinched he was in early life for money, and what a benefit
it would have been to him throughout his life had he, at the

commencement of his career, had more money at his disposal.
But he made the most of his small means. His microscope was
given to him, but it was a very inferior one. With a five-

pound note, given to him by his father on gaining one of the

Iprizes, he procured for himself a -J-inch lens, which he had long
coveted to possess.  must here exonerate my grandfather's

memory from the supposition that he was either a mean man, or

an unnatural father. On the contrary, he was very fond of his
children, and particularly proud of his son Alfred. But my grand-

father had been brought up in the school of adversity. He had

seen his father's fortune go from him ; he had lived in turbulent

times, when the revolution of France had filled men's minds with

horror ; he had, as a young man, lived in the society of French

noble refugees, amongst whom was an archbishop who had

escaped to this country for protection against the oppressions

of their own countrymen : thus my grandfather having from his

youth witnessed the instability of fortune, it had thereby caused

him to become in middle age more prudent, more cautious in
money matters than it was his natural disposition to be.

     The room in which he carried on his numerous experiments
    where all the experiments for ' Electro-Metallurgy ' were worked
CHAP. II.]  LIFE AT THE BANK OF ENGLAND.  13

out, where " Sinee's Battery " was devised was one having a

stone floor which led out of one of the drawing-rooms at the

house my grandfather occupied at the Bank of England. This

room, which produced such great works, was not worthy of the

Iappellation of laboratory.              am enabled to give
     Through the kindness of my mother,
a picture of this room. It was etched on copper by her brother,

the late Mr. William Hutchison. The lines which appear below

the etching were written by my father on a copy belonging to
my friend Miss Fooks, which she kindly placed at my disposal.

In this room my father worked ; he had no assistant to help him ;

every single experiment for ' Electro-Metallurgy,' &c., had to be
carried out by his own hands ; and his pecuniary means were, as
already observed, small to a degree. Think of this, young men
of talent, and turn your abilities to as good an account as Alfred
Since did his, and with such a pittance !

     The home life at the Bank was a singularly simple one.
14  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. II.

According to the rules of the Bank of England, its gates were

Ilocked and barred at 10 o'clock at night (a few years later than

the time am now writing about, the gates were not closed till

11 o'clock); consequently balls and evening parties were interdicted
to the members of the Smee family, for to have the Bank gates
opened after they were closed for the night was attended by so
much formality, such as ringing up the chief cashier, and having
the names of the party entered in a book, that practically it never
was done unless in a case of urgent necessity. Thus in a great

measure society was a sealed book for the young people, and
they were obliged to seek their amusements in themselves. After

dinner, which was always precisely at 5 o'clock, the family generally

used to devote themselves to music. Some played the piano,

another the violin, and another the violoncello, and the daughter

of the house sang ; and thus by delightful duets, trios, and even
quartetts and songs, the long evenings were beguiled. My grand-
father was a skilful amateur performer on the piano ; he had been

a pupil of Battershill, the well-known pupil of Handel. My grand-
father had, besides, a thorough knowledge of musical composition.

He would read off musical compositions as he would an ordinary

reading book. It is not, therefore, surprising to find that a

talent for music was inherited by the children, though in
various degrees. My father was generally too much engaged

with his numerous researches to be able to take a prominent

part in these musical soirees. He, however, was very fond of
music, and played a little on the violoncello. He had an

infallible ear for rhythm, and it was painful to him to have to
listen to performers (however skilful they might otherwise be in
their playing) if they did not give the precise accentuation : the
slightest fault his ear detected. His favourite musical works were
those by Mozart, more especially the music of 'Don Juan' and the

' Zauberflote ;' those by Meyerbeer, the music from 'Koberto ' being
the favourite ; and the music of ' Der Freischiitz,' by Weber. He

liked, too, classical chamber music, although he used to say he
found that class of music too fatiguing to listen to after a long hard
day's work. He was especially fond of sacred pieces, such as the

'Messiah' by Handel, the 'Elijah' by Mendelssohn, the 'Creation'
by Haydn, and other oratorios. For some years he regularly took
two stalls at Exeter Hall, and there weekly he and his family en-

joyed by turns the magnificent rendering of the various oratorios by
the great masters. Besides oratorios, my father liked chorals and
hymns, Pergolesi's ' Hymn of Praise ' being among his favourites.
CHAP. II.]  SETS UP AS A SURGEON.  15

At his house on a Sunday he would not permit other than sacred
music to be performed. He was also particularly skilful in

analysing the musical works of the great composers, in which

he could detect the particular phrase or subject upon which
the work be it a sonata, an oratorio, or an opera was framed;
and he would come home from an opera, for instance, humming
the subject upon which the opera was based. He was very
fond of a good opera, and had stalls at one of the opera
houses for several years, and he was very fond of a good ballet.

He was no dancer himself, but it afforded him pleasure to see

others dance, and he liked dance music for the rhythm's sake.
His ear was not, however, acute for tune; for whether the
instrument were somewhat flat or sharp made but little difference
to him, provided the rhythm or the accentuation of the playing

Iwas strictly correct.

     In speaking of the home life of the Bank, should not omit to

mention that Alfred Smee was much attached to his father, towards
whom he ever behaved in the most filial and respectful manner,
and he was devoted to his mother and to his only sister. His

sister seems to have possessed much of my father's zealous and
active disposition ; but she died young, leaving behind her not a
few traces of uncommon talent, and the memory of a sweet dis-

position which was treasured by those who knew her.
     After Alfred Smee had completed his medical education at

King's College and at St. Bartholomew's, he became for a short
time (a month or two) an articled apprentice of a general prac-
titioner, and later, in 1840, he became member of the Eoyal College

of Surgeons, after which he set up in Finsbury Circus as a con-

sulting surgeon.
16  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                           [CHAP. III.

                           CHAPTEE III.

                                    1840 TO 1842.

Twenty-second year of his age "Smee's Battery" Marriage of Alfred Smee,
    June 2nd, 1840 ' Ferrosesquicyanuret of Potassium ' paper ' Electro-Metal-
     lurgy ' published December 1840 ; age, twenty-two Alfred Smee's re-

    searches in electro-metallurgy  Base coinage Delivers a lecture at the Royal

    Institution, February 1841 ; age twenty-three His specimens in electro-

    metallurgy shown to the Prince Consort Surgeon to the Bank of England

    Elected Fellow of the Royal Society Makes a durable ink Elected Surgeon
    to the Royal General Dispensary, Aldersgate Street Paper OB the ' Reduc-
    tion of Metals ' Lecture at the Royal Institution on ' Reduction of Metals '
    Paper on ' Inhalation of Ammonia ' Other scientific papers, &c.

THE year 1840 was, perhaps, the most momentous one in my

father's life, for in this year many of his inventions and dis-

coveries were given to the public. On the 29th of February his
paper was read before the Royal Society, ' On the Galvanic Pro-

perties of the Principal Elementary Bodies, with a Description of
                                    Battery '
a new Chemico-Mechanical            the " Smee  now of world- wide repute,
and known by the name of                        Battery." The same sub-

ject was made a paper, which was read at the Society of Arts,
June 1st, 1840. For the latter paper, the Gold Isis Medal, which

he received from the hands of the Duke of Sussex, was bestowed

upon him. Millais, the celebrated artist, also received a medal

on  the same day.     "

    " Smee's Battery       was      devised  through  conducting     a  series

of experiments on the ferrocyanuret of potassium, which gave

frequent occasion for the use of a galvanic battery.

    I found (Mr. Smee adds in ' Electro-Metallurgy ' *) that although the
batteries of Daniell and of Grove were admirably-contrived instruments,
yet it was very desirable  to possess one that could be set
                           with comparatively little trouble.  in action at
a moment's notice, and
                                                                 It became

                                    * Page 23.
CHAP. III.]                      SMEE'S BATTERY.                                             17

thenceforth my endeavour to construct one that should require little

or no labour in its employment, and this was followed by devising the

IChemico-mechanical battery.
      This battery, after had minutely investigated every property which
belongs to the metals of which batteries are constructed, was made upon

noticing the property which rough surfaces possess of evolving the

hydrogen, and smooth surfaces of favouring its adhesion.

      The value of the battery process, Smee's battery (he writes in his
' History of Electro-Metallurgy ' *), over all others, is its applicability to all

cases ; moreover, when we use a single cell of the battery, the quantity of
zinc dissolved to do any amount of work is the same, or even less, than

attends the use of the other apparatus, because the local action in a battery
of this construction is less than in the single-cell apparatus, and lastly, the

quality of the precipitated metal can be regulated with the utmost nicety.

    The platinized silver battery is peculiarly suitable for the operator,
for when     it is in            it communicates to
that it is   doing;    action    it completely talks             him the degree              of work
                       in fact,                                  to its possessor.
                                                                                              If the
current is very feeble, a faint murmur is heard ; if a little stronger, the
battery whispers ; if a moderate current is passing, it hisses ; but if a

Iviolent one, it roars. At this present moment have nineteen batteries at
Iwork in the same room where am writing, and they are each telling me
the work they are performing. This very instant the fall of a heavy
ledger in a neighbouring office has jarred two wires into contact, and

Ithe roar of that one battery has immediately informed me of the fact,

notwithstanding the action of the eighteen others ; have separated the
wires, and the universal singing communicates to me that all are now
woi'king satisfactorily. Any local action on zinc in the same manner is

Iimmediately notified by its different and peculiar voice, and have been

surprised how quickly the experimenter catches the characteristic pecu-

liarity of each noise, which is learnt more readily than the sound of different

bells in a strange house.

As soon as this new battery was made known it created

a great sensation throughout the country. The great manu-

facturers entertained so high an opinion of                      that before theit,

year had closed some thousands of them, or about 2000 worth,                              C

were sold to the country. Thirty-six years have now passed since

its invention, and yet                still in use.
                       if
                            it

                                  is
As with most, not with all inventions, there are always to

be found few persons       to endeavour                      to   cry down any             i"mdpiodrtannott
            a              supposed that                         Smee's Battery
novelty, so        may be                                    "
               it

escape the ire of the jealous few but in this case, as in all other
                       it
                                   it only brought its worth more into

                                                          ;
cases where merit exists,

view, and thus             became the one employed by the great

manufacturers of this country. Soon its fame reached other

countries, where was likewise employed.
                       it

        P. 23.t*
         This was written at the time when he lived at his father's house at the
Bank of England.
18      MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                  [CHAP. III.

    In the Appendix, No. V., a description of this battery will be
found, illustrated by woodcuts, with a very full account for

the working of the same.

     The day following that on which Alfred Smee received the
gold medal from the Society of Arts for his battery, he was

married to Miss Hutchison, a young lady of Irish descent,

to whom he had been engaged at the early age of seventeen.

The marriage took place at 8 o'clock on the morning of the

2nd of .June, 1840 (before the Bank of England was opened
to the public), at St. Margaret's, Lothbury, the venerable Arch-

deacon Hollingsworth officiating, in the presence of six members
only of the two families. This privacy was occasioned through

my grandfather's official position at the Bank ; and as my mother

was an orphan, and Mr. and Mrs. Smee were her guardians,

she and her brother lived with them. Alfred Smee was ever a

most devoted husband, and his great affection for his wife is
shown in the dedication to her of ' My Garden.'
                                                            have
   IIn April 1840, he wrote a paper on electrotypes, which
inserted in its place in the Appendix, No. VI.

    The next paper of Alfred Smee's was a very important one : it

was the one through conducting the experiments for which he had

invented his battery, namely, 'On the Ferrosesquicyanuret of

Potassium.' It was read before the Eoyal Society on his birthday,

the 18th of June, 1840, only sixteen days after his marriage, and

it was printed in the ' London and Edinburgh Philosophical Maga-
zine :' see Appendix, No. VII. Although in this paper he pointed

out, before Schonbein's discovery of ozone, that electrolytic oxygen
converted the ferro- into the ferri-cyanide of potassium, yet for

some reason or other, best known to that learned body, or to the

set or clique which at that time governed;

                                               it,
                                                      ' is

                                                                 it

                                                                                               '
                                                this highly im-

portant paper was, like its predecessor on the battery, ordered to

be deposited in the archives of the Society that to say, was

not allowed to be published in the Eoyal Society's Proceedings

or Transactions.' In consequence of this treatment Alfred Smee
    ''
did not for some time send any more papers. to the Eoyal Society,

but published them elsewhere.

        Electro-Metallurgy,' the first great work of Alfred Smee, was

published on the 1st of December, 1840.

    Although most of the subjects contained in that book are now

generally known to the public, yet few only are aware that the

greater part, and indeed very important part, of the science
                          a

of electro-metallurgy was the creation of his brain, and that at
CHAP. III.]  ' ELECTRO-METALLURGY ' PUBLISHED.                                   19

the time this work was written, now thirty- seven years ago, it
was the only important contribution and the only complete

exposition of the subject embraced therein. The very name of

the science, electro-metallurgy, owes its name to him. The

late Prince Consort graciously allowed the book to be dedicated

to him. In the Appendix, No. VIII., will be found the history of

this science, as it is given in every edition of ' Electro-Metallurgy,'

as well as a brief view of the various subjects treated of in the

work itself. It suffices, therefore, here to enumerate some of the

more important researches which Mr. Smee made in the science

of  e1le. c"trToh-me elatwalslurreggyu. latiTnhge  important ones,   therefore,  were :
                                                   the reduction of  all metals  in different

states." By these laws, gold, silver, platinum, palladium, copper,

iron, and almost every other metal, can be thrown down in three

states ; namely, as a black powder, as a crystalline deposit, or as

a flexible plate.

      It is these laws (he says) which raise the isolated facts hitherto

known as the electrotype into a science. The hundreds of experiments (he

Iadds), may even say the thousands, that have been tried to elucidate these
Ilaws, could never have been executed had not first discovered my galvanic

battery ; for its simplicity alone enabled me, without any assistance, to

undergo the laborious undertaking.

     2. The processes for platinating and palladiating, until de-
scribed in his ' Electro-Metallurgy,' were facts altogether un-
known to science ; for the reduction of those metals into any other
state than that of the black powder had hitherto been always
considered impossible. By these processes, reliefs and intaglios

in gold and nearly every other metal were enabled to be executed.
     3. To Mr. Smee we are also indebted for being the first to

discover the means by which perfect reverses of plaster could be
obtained : for it may seem singular that although every writer on
the subject had previously given directions for making moulds of

plaster casts in metal, yet before Smee's investigations no perfect
reverse of plaster had been obtained. He soon found out that the
reason of the failures lay in the extreme porosity of the plaster,

and he removed the difficulty by rendering the plaster non-

absorbent. In speaking of this matter he says :

      The success of this department of my experiments has amply repaid

Ime for my labours and expense ; for there is not a town in England that

have happened to visit, and scarcely a street of this metropolis, where pre-
pared plasters are not exposed to view for the purpose of alluring persons
to follow the delightful recreation by the practice of electro-metallurgy.

    4. He also extended the use of white wax, bees'-wax, and resin.
                                                                                             c2
20                    MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. III.

     5. Amongst the many other novel facts first brought forward
in this work, ' Elements of Electro-Metallurgy/ a work which

naturally created a great sensation at the time, is the novel appli-

cation for the coating of fruit, ferns, leaves, &c., with copper.

IAs this would afford a pleasant recreation for ladies, have tran-

scribed the directions for coating these natural objects in the

author's own words (see the Appendix, No. VIII.)

     Besides being well reviewed, from the moment ' Electro-Metal-
lurgy ' was published, numerous were the letters which poured in to

my father about some matter or other appertaining to the subject,
not only from most of the manufacturers of this country, but also

from those of other countries. Indeed, up to the time of his

death, he never ceased receiving letters or seeing persons engaged

in the application of electro-metallurgy, all seeking for informa-

tion respecting either Smee's battery or some matter connected
with the process. As my father always gave his advice gra-

tuitously, his family have often been surprised and pleased by

receiving some small token made by the above kind of battery

as a recognition of some service, in the form of advice,

given by my father. As may be expected, there were not

wanting forgers of base coin to take advantage of the process

of electro-metallurgy for counterfeiting the coins of the realm.

In the prosecution of such cases my father was frequently called

as a witness.

   I have dwelt long upon Smee's ' Electro-Metallurgy,' because

that work is now out of print, and it has been my desire to show

exactly to what extent Alfred Smee contributed to this science,

Ifor other works are now appearing on that subject, in which
his name is more or less being ignored.  have also given many

details of Smee's battery, so as to serve as useful hints to those

employing the same ; for now the inventor is dead, his advice con-

cerning its management can be heard no more.

     On the 4th of January, 1841, the distinguished chemist,
Brande, wrote from the Koyal Mint to Mr. Smee, thus :

    MY DEAR SIR, Mr. Palmer has been good e'nough to Bend me a
copy of your valuable essay on Electro-Metallurgy, and as it will shortly

Ifall to my lot to give an evening at the Royal Institution, am inclined to
Itake up that subject, provided you will lend me your aid. was in hope
                      it,
                                     is
Faraday would have done but he not well enough to take an active
part at present. Pray give me a line to tell me your feelings upon the
subject, and whether you will allow me to talk the matter over with
you in a day or two.                     Yours faithfully,

                                              "W. T. BRANDE.
CHAP. III.]  ELECTKOMETALLURGY.                                   21

     Ten days later the same wrote :
      Should you happen to be this way on Monday forenoon next and
would look in, you will find me at work on electrotypes, and might perhaps
be able to give me a little practical advice.

The lecture was delivered at the Koyal Institution on Friday

evening, January 22nd; and on the following month, Friday

evening, February 26th, 1841, one was delivered by Alfred
Smee ' On the Laws regulating the Voltaic Precipitation of

Metals.' The theatre was densely crowded on both occasions,
and from letters from members of the Royal Institution and

from other sources, it would seem that Mr. Smee's lecture was

a great success, as was that of Brande. Previously to this,

Mr. Smee had also given a very successful one before the Numis-

matic Society, on the 21st of January, 1841.
    In April of the same year my father showed his various

specimens of electro-metallurgy to the late Prince Consort, at

Buckingham Palace. The Prince was greatly interested with

them. A cucumber that my father had coated with copper was

shown to her Majesty, and she became so interested with the

subject that she broke the casting with her finger, to see if really

the cucumber was inside. This coppered cucumber with the hole

is still in existence, as well as some of the other first specimens
in electro-metallurgy that were made by Alfred Smee. These

specimens were also frequently shown at the various great soirees

of London.

Besides the works already described, Alfred Smee had other

occupations to engross his time and attention. We find that on

the first Thursday in January, 1841, he was elected Surgeon to

the Bank of England. This appointment was specially created

for him, and for it he was mainly indebted to that eminent

surgeon, Sir Astley Cooper. Sir Astley had taken a great

interest in the young man, and came several times to the

Bank to see his various experiments. Being a friend of the

Governor     of the Bank, Sir John Bay Beed, Sir Astley   Cooper  told
him to be    sure " not to let Mr. Alfred Smee leave the  Bank,"  for,

said he,

      You don't know what a treasure you have got in that young man ;
he has shown signs of working out problems for himself which will be sure
to be useful some time or another.

   I Igive this conversation as have been told it by one (not the

person interested) who heard it. Evidently Sir Astley Cooper
22                      MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                           [CHAP. III.

thought that " It is not the place honours the man, but the man

the place." * Besides being surgeon to the Bank of England, my

father held other public offices : he was also in private practice,

and was considered eminent as an oculist.

      How he got through his various avocations is a marvel, but

the truth   it is,  he was never idle. His mind was ever employed

upon some matter or other, and resulted in his mind wearing
                        a
out his body while he was only in middle age.
                                  it
      On the 10th of June, 1841, before he was twenty-three years

old, he was elected Fellow of the Eoyal Society. There was some

opposition got up from             quarter least expected; but on the

eminent mathematician and actuary (B. Grompert) and some
others taking the matter up warmly, and on that gentleman,

on the day of the election, entering the room where                                      a it  was to

take place, and signifying his intention of noting down the name

of every Fellow that voted, and how he voted, with view of

publishing          to the world, those who led the opposition ended

by voting for Mr. Smee, who was duly elected.

      The close of 1841 saw Mr. Smee the father of son, an only
                                           a
one.                                                        a

      In 1842 Mr. Smee succeeded in making writing ink for the

Bank of England. Various specimens of writing made with his

ink about this time, thirty-six years ago, now exist, the letters of

which are as black as jet. Other specimens of writing made by

some of the manufacturers of ink at that time are more or less

faded, in some cases so much so that the writing                                         scarcely
           I it
                 is
                               I

                                                     it

                                                                           is
                                                                                          is

                                                                                  it
legible. As the receipt for making this ink no secret, may

interest some of my readers to know what its ingredients are,

and how             manufactured.  have, therefore, endeavoured to

satisfy them by giving the receipt in the Appendix, No. IX.

      While am on the subject of inks will not be out of place

here   to  add that my father,     to use his own words, made at various
times      almost innumerable
        "                          examinations of different inks." In

Bush's case,f all the inks found in Bush's house were sent to my

father's house for examination, together with the paper thrown
into Stanfield Hall, with the inks from large portion of the
       *
                                                a

                                         t
                                                A

                                                                                      a
county of Norfolk, to compare with that with which the document

was written. Another time his chemical analysis of some ink was

the means of showing that gentleman who had been accused of

carelessness had been the victim of fraud, and thereby he had the

           See Talmud.             celebrated murder case in 1847.
CHAP. III.]             SCIENTIFIC PAPERS.                                                        23

gratification not only of sustaining his reputation, but of saving

him from the payment of 1000.

    In    GFeenberuraalryDisopfe1n8s4a2ry,MArl.deSrmsgeaetewaSstreeelte.ctedThseur"gesounccetsos   the
                                                                                                  " to
Eoyal
this election tf is much enhanced," writes Lord Carington,                                        " by

the handsome majority."

     During this year a paper of Mr. Smee's appeared in the
twenty-first number of the ' Philosophical Magazine,' and also in

the second volume of the 'Archives de I'ElectriciteY It was entitled

' On the New Definition of the Voltaic Circuit, with Formulae for

ascertaining its Power under different Circumstances.'                                            This

paper was afterwards incorporated in the second edition of

* Electro-Metallurgy,' on which Mr. Smee was this year hard at

work. During this same year he wrote a few medical papers,
among which may be mentioned, ' On Glossites producing Sup-
puration,' to be found in the ' London Medical Journal ' of March
10th ; ' On the Treatment of Syphilis,' and an account of 'Violent

Hysteria in a Man.'

     On the 9th of March, 1843, Mr. Smee read before the Koyal
Society his paper, ' On the Cause of the Eeduction of Metals

when Solutions of their Salts are subjected to the Galvanic

Current.' This paper was also incorporated in the second edition

of 'Electro-Metallurgy.' The paper itself will be found in the

Appendix, No. X.* The following evening he delivered a lecture

on the subject at the Koyal Institution, which appears to have

been very successful. .

Previously his attention had, with others, been directed to a

plan for conducting a Medical Association for Clerks, in connection

with the Provident Clerks' Benefit Association and Benevolent

Fund. It is a long draft, and the MS., which is in his hand-

writing, consists of several sheets of paper. The gist of the plan

was to ensure for those gentlemen who are occupied as clerks in

the city of London the benefits of being attended by the highest

medical skill, and for procuring for them the best medicines and

all the various comforts applicable in cases of sickness at a rate

commensurate with the pecuniary means of such seeking benefit

therefrom. The institution was to be in a central position, and

was to have baths, drugs, and a dispensing department. Medical

* This paper was published in the fourth volume of the ' Archives de I'Elec-
          in 1844 ; in   Majocchi, ' Ann. Fis. Chim.' vol. xv.           in the ' Philo-
triciteY   Magazine,'   vol. xxv. 1844 ; in the ' Proceedings   1844 ;  Royal Society ;'
sophical                                                        of the
and in the ' Poggend. Annal.' No. Ixv. 1845.
24                 MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.         [CHAP. III.

men were to be on the spot to attend to patients. There are

long rules and numerous regulations, which show that the

Imost minute detail was fully considered for the management of
this institution.  believe the scheme fell through for want of

funds.

     The ' London Medical Gazette ' for April 3rd, 1843, contains

a paper by his pen, 'On the Inhalation of Ammonia das as a
Bemedial Agent.' See the Appendix, No. XI.

    This year his only daughter was born to him.
CHAP. IV.]       ' SOURCES OF PHYSICS ' PUBLISHED.                   25

                          CHAPTEK IV.

                               1843 TO 1847.

' Sources of     Physics,' second book, 1843-1844 Lectures on ' Detection of
      Needles '  1845 Paper, ' Application of Electricity to Surgery ' Carmine
     injections   Potato disease 1846 Third book on the 'Potato Plant'

Aphis vastator, nomenclature of 1847 Rancorous animosity and skits

on A. S. Famine Food soiree Skeleton of lecture Lecture Ventilation

Smee's ether inhaler.

THE same year appeared Alfred Smee's book on ' The Sources of

Physical Science,' which was specially written as an introduction
to the ' Study of Physiology through Physics,' and which comprises

the connection of the several departments of physical science, their

dependence on the same laws, and the relation of the material to
the immaterial. This work was published on the 1st of Sep-

tember, 1843. It is divided into seven chapters, thus :

CHAP. I.     The Fundamental Sciences. Matter Arithmetic Attraction.

       II.   On the Sciences of Matter under Attraction. Chemistry
               Crystallography Geometry Trigonometry Gravity Mag-
     III.
                 netism.
       IV.
         V.  Chi the Sciences of the Disturbance of Attraction.      Electricity
       VI.     Mechanics Hydrostatics Pneumatics.
     VII.    The Sciences of Actions and Reactions. Time Heat Light
                 Sound Odour.

             On the Performance of Human Operations.
             On the Complex Sciences.

                 On the Relation of the Material to the Immaterial.

     He had originally intended to draw up a slight sketch of
physical science to form an introductory chapter to his great
work, ' Electro-Biology,' which appeared about six years later ;
but finding that he was unable to compress the matter of the
intended chapter within three hundred pages, he resolved to
publish the work as a separate treatise.

    IAt the commencement of my physiological inquiries (he writes)

had no idea of dedicating a separate volume to the Sources of Physical
26  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                             [CHAP. IV.

I IScience, nor should have published it if could have referred to any

sufficiently condensed work on these subjects. But having felt the want

Iof a work considering the subjects of the sciences, and showing their

relative position, conceived that my own attempts to forward these
inquiries might not be unacceptable to many lovers of scientific knowledge.

If I shall hereafter find that my labours have been useful to society, or
Ihave induced others to produce a more perfect treatise, shall feel most

amply rewarded.*

     From these words we learn that Alfred Smee was the first

who published a condensed yet exhaustive view of the physical

sciences.

     Although since this work was written, now thirty-four years
ago, great strides, nay, colossal strides, have been made in physical
science, yet it must be borne in mind that ' Sources of Physics '
was the forerunner of all the numerous treatises which have since
been issued in this branch of knowledge, and it was therefore at
the time of its publication a most original work.

    In this work he impresses the reader with the importance of

studying physics as a whole, not in divisions.

      For (says he) by the investigation of the phenomena of one science
we become more acquainted with its details ; but when we are desirous
of contemplating the real nature of the phenomena, and the cause of their

production, we must study the effects as a whole, to prevent erroneous
conclusions and vain creations of imponderables.!

     The tendency of the present day is to take up one branch of
knowledge only nay, to divide one branch of knowledge into
various subdivisions, and to investigate only the details of one of
these subdivisions, thereby narrowing the mind ; for as the sight
of man is injured by viewing objects only through the microscope,
so in a similar manner is the mind narrowed by only using it for
the investigation of mere matters of detail.

    In another place $ my father advocates for different classes

more freely to interchange ideas.

       The tendency of the period (says he) is for society to group
together in classes ; even the Royal Society for the Promotion of Natural
Knowledge is most exclusive to all but actual followers of natural science.

The clergy separate themselves, the doctors congregate together, but a
continual intercourse in a right spirit has a tendency to perfect the mind
of all ; and whether they work in the upper, lower, or middle departments
of their minds, all should accord.

    See ' Sources of PthySseeics','MPinredfaocef ,Mpa.n,v'iip. . 106.  f Idem, p. 254.
CHAP. IV.]  ' SOURCES OF PHYSICS ' LECTURES.                   27

My father also always held that the older a person grew

the more he should cultivate the acquaintance of young people ;

for by these means mutual benefit is derived. A young person

brings the new facts and feelings of the age added to a freshness

and vigour of mind, and thus prevents the elder from growing

old in intellect.
     To return to ' Sources of Physics,' a full analysis of that work

will be found in the Appendix, No. XII., together with the two

concluding chapters, which, as they treat on the relation of the

material to the immaterial, are there given in entirety, as they not

only strongly bear upon subjects in his mental philosophy,* but

further they fully demonstrate how Alfred Smee's mind was, as

a young man as in middle-age, ever dwelling upon that which is

infinite ; and how he was ever demonstrating that that which is

infinite must not be limited, neither must time be confounded

with eternity, matter with space, the body with the soul, or

material actions with God.

     Mr. Smee had for some time previously been elected lecturer
to the Aldersgate School of Medicine. In the Appendix,

No. XIII., is the Introductory Lecture delivered the 5th of
October, 1844, and in the same place at No. XIV. is part of

another lecture delivered before the same audience on the 9th

of December in the same year. The latter was embodied in a
paper entitled ' The Detection of Needles impacted in the

Human Frame.' During this year he received pressing letters

Ifrom the Royal Institution authorities to lecture before that

scientific body, but am not aware that he did so.

     His    lectures were  clearly delivered, and as it  has been re-
                           possessed great perspicuity   of language,"
marked      of him, " he

and "his manner was pleasing;" but unfortunately he did not

possess a good voice. He suffered as a young man much from

affection of the throat, which often deprived him in a great

measure of the use of his voice, and rendered him for a

considerable time afterwards husky and hoarse. He used to

deplore his not possessing a melodious voice, which was indeed

a great drawback in his lecturing and in his speaking before

public meetings, which he did frequently throughout his life.

    A paper on the ' New Application of Electricity to Surgery '

was published in the 26th volume of the ' Philosophical Magazine.'

IThe same year he was elected Vice-president of the Medical
Society at King's College.  should not omit to mention that

            * See ' Electro-Biology,' and ' The Mind of Man.'
28     MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                 [CHAP. IV.

when he was a student of King's College, he belonged to their
Debating Society, and it was there he learned to speak in public.

He would speak on any question that was before the meeting in

order to acquire a fluency of language a custom from which, he

observed in later life, he had derived considerable benefit.

    In March 1845, he wrote a paper for the Microscopical Society,

'On Vessels in Fat smaller than the Capillaries.' Curiously

enough the paper was lost by that society, which caused him
considerable irritation and annoyance : * for this paper contained

the description of the process he adopted in the preparation of his

beautiful carmine injections of the brain and spinal cord. These

injections were exceedingly difficult to prepare : they were made

by using a solution of carmine in ammonia mixed with size. The

preparations were then dried and placed in balsam, so that they

are permanent, and, being transparent, constitute the most lovely

microscopical specimens which can possibly be perceived. These
carmine injections will bear a very high magnifying power.

They were the very first that were made. Over a period of more

than thirty years these beautiful microscopic preparations have

been constantly shown at the various great soirees of London,

and up to the present day never are they exhibited without

filling the mind of the spectator with wonder and admiration.t

     Early in the summer (June 1845), my father and mother,
with her brother, went to Switzerland for a month. Since

the time of his marriage, this was the first holiday he had been

enabled to take. It was the first time he had seen the

snow mountains, and from his intense love of Nature we may

well imagine his feelings of delight on beholding the Alps,

where  " The palaces of nature
         Have pinnacled in clouds their snowy scalps,
         And throned eternity in icy walls

       Of cold sublimity." BYKON, Childe Harold.

    In the summer of the same year a disease appeared in Europe

among potato plants, which caused the tubers to decay. The
first communication of the fact was in the ' Gardeners' Chronicle,'
on the 16th of August, 1845, by Dr. Bell Salter. No sooner
had this letter appeared than other communications were sent
to that journal, stating that the disease had existed to a large
extent the previous season, although such an important state-

                         * It was supposed to have been stolen,
                         f See ' Mind of Man,' p. 233.
CHAP. IV.]  WORK ON THE POTATO DISEASE.                                            29

ment had not previously been chronicled. The disease was at

first considered a totally new malady, but Mr. Smee found, on

inquiry, that in Germany, in 1830, Martius wrote on the subject,

and that he attributed its effect to a fungus. Berkeley, the great

fungologist -who, though differing in opinion from Mr. Smee,

always carried on the controversy in the most courteous

manner, and whom my father held in great respect and esteem

considered the fungus called the Botrytis to be the cause.

My father became interested in the subject, and began making
his own researches. He concluded that the first cause of the

disease was occasioned by an aphis which punctured the leaf,

sucked the sap, and destroyed the relation between the leaf and

the root, thus causing the leaf or some other part of the plant to

bgerecwom, ewghaicnhgre"ngoruosw, tahn,"d  die. After the   attack of the  aphis,  fungi
                                           he writes, " is  probably in    many
                                                                                   cases

materially assisted by the prior attack of the aphis." The results

of Mr. Smee's inquiries and researches on aphides, and their

relation to the potato and other plants, became so numerous, that

he was led, in 1846, into embodying his views on the subject in a

treatise containing 170 pages, which is well known by the title
of the ' Potato Plant, its Uses and Properties, together with the

Cause of the Present Malady.' * In this book, which is dedicated

to the late Prince Consort, the properties and growth of the

potato plant are set forth, as is also its individuality, and the

chemistry and use of that plant, &c. ; its gangrene, or present

disease, and the chemistry of the disease; the relation of the

disease to internal and external causes; the effect of temperature,

light, electricity, upon the disease; the relation of the disease

to soils and manures, to fungi; the relations of gangrene to

animal parasites. The various aphides are then described. The

insect that attacked the potato plant he considered to be an aphis,

which, when fully grown, is about a tenth of an inch long, and

its colour, either white, olive-green, brown, or inclined to red.
This aphis, the destroyer of the potato, he found was identically

the same which had been previously known to infest the turnip,

and which is called by Curtis on that account the Aphis

rapse. On the great confusion attending such a nomenclature,
Mr. Smee determined, for the sake of perspicuity, to call it

the Aphis vastator, or destroyer of our best provisions: for

the Aphis vastator destroys, in a similar manner as it does the

     * This book is still in print, and is published by Messrs. Longman and Co.,
Paternoster Row.
30                             MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                       [CHAP. IV.

potato, the turnip, the swede, the beetroot, the cabbage, the
broccoli, the radish, the horse-radish, the various wild Solani,

some kinds of henbane, the Stramonium, the Belladonna, the

clover, the groundsel, the Euphorbia, some sorts of Murex, the
mallow, the shepherd's purse, the holy thistle, some kinds of

grass, and even wheat, the Jerusalem artichoke and the sweet

potato, and perhaps other plants.

    There are many other kinds of aphides, besides the Aphis

vastator, which destroy other plants, and even trees, and we had,

about five years ago, some large willow-trees totally destroyed

by their ravages at "my garden" at Wallington.* Many of

these different sorts of aphides and injuries caused by them are

also delineated in this work on the potato disease.                         He also

shows the relation of the Vastator and other aphides to fungi ;

and he then gives the natural and artificial remedies for the
present diseases among plants. The work is illustrated by ten

lithographs of potato plants in health and in disease, of diseased

carrots and turnips, parsnips, and mangold-wurzel, of the Aphis

vastator and of other aphides, and of various fungi.
     Mr. Curtis, the distinguished entomologist, blamed Mr. Smee

for having violated            thteheapehsista. blis"heBdutciutstaopmp,eairns,"nostayhsamviyngfatuhseer,d
t"htehaptrioMr r.naCmuertiosf  named this self-same creature rapse, when it

it                                                                          as Mr. Walker has

                                         ?

                                                                      it,
had the former name, dianthi, assigned to

informed me." Thus we have Aphis vastator (the destroyer) alias
rapse, alias dianthi. How many more aliases will this dire scourge

to mankind receive

    The moment this book on the potato plant was published,

    was assailed in the most extraordinary way. The writers did

not attempt to attack his facts or his reasoning, but they mis-

represented his views, and indeed but too frequently made my

father say the very reverse of what he did say, and then they wrote

their own fabulous versions of his writings.f

    The controversy which ensued during this potato pestilence,

and the violence of various parties, were truly reproach to science.
At last, as my father has said,|
    fI
              ''
                                iIf
                                                                        p.

                                               Ja
    Foolish, people used to amuse me by sending threatening letters by

nearly every post (many of these have been collected together), cautioning

me that should be amply punished          dared to continue to write upon

    * See My Garden,' second edition,     477.
       See Instinct and Reason,' p. 263.
                                                                            Idem, p. 265.
CHAP. IV.]   PERIOD OF POTATO DISEASE.                                                31

the subject (his life was even threatened). Notwithstanding all this, it was

Ivery curious to notice how kindly the public used to supply me with facts

for my guidance ; and received valuable communications, some of them
of great length, though, when the controversy was at its height, they
were sent anonymously. By the middle of summer nearly every agricul-
turist was made acquainted with my investigations despite this rancorous

animosity.

   I can just remember the time of the potato disease. Our

drawing-rooms were ornamented with innumerable specimens of

diseased potatoes. Potatoes were on the mantelpieces ; potatoes

Iwere on the tables ; potatoes innumerable were on the floor. am

by no means sure that the chairs were not occupied by potatoes !

Wherever the eye glanced, diseased potatoes met the view.

    In the Appendix, No. XV.B., will be found a selection from the
voluminous correspondence which Alfred Smee carried on in

various newspapers on the potato disease during the years 1845,

1846, and 1847.

     In the  ' Annual Register ' for  1805 it is stated                in an article  upon the
aphis, " In  some years the aphides                                     as to cause   almost a
                                      are so numerous
total failure of the hop and potato plantations ; in other years the peas are

equally injured, while exotics, raised in stoves and greenhouses, are fre-
                         "thTeoirpodtaetporeesd, ataionnds.e"venInto
quently  destroyed by                                                 the Linnsean Transactions
Mr. W.   Curtis states,                                                corn, we have known the

aphides  sttoatpersovtehahtig"htlhye  detrimental,  and no  less so to melons."   Mr. Curtis
further                               aphis is the  grand                        plants, and
                                                            cause of blights in

that erroneous notions are entertained, not only by the vulgar and

illiterate, but even by persons of education, that aphides attack none but

sickly plants, with other notions as altogether false in fact as unphilo-

sophical in principle."*

     Besides the rancorous animosity of the ignorant and of the
bigoted, Mr. Smee was subjected to be taken off in humorous

skits. Mr. Punch, of course, was not behindhand.
    In the pantomime at Drury Lane appeared :

             Scene, a Village Fair with Shows, &c. &c.
                  Little Boy looking at a peep-show.

Showman.     This is the Aphis vastator, as you may see,
             Yery much magnified by Mr. Smee.
Boy.         Please, sir, which is the aphis and which is the tater ?
Showman.     Whichever you like, my young investigator.

                                               The Knight and the Wood Demon ;

                                                                          or, One o'clock.

                                      ' Instinct and Reason,' p. 263.
32  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                        [CHAP. IV.

    In one of the newspapers appeared the following humorous

lines :

    Lines on reading Mr. Smee's Account of the Aphis vastator, supposed by
                                 him to cause the Potato Blight.

                     Well ! this confounded tater blight
                        Is now clear'd up by Smee ;

                       And for a cure all people must
                          To fumigation flee.

                     Let all peruse his handsome book
                          About the wondrous fly,

                   Which is the cause of all the ill

                          So says his theory.

                       On reading first the title-page

                 I(I say it in no joke),

                       From seeing F.R.S., thought
                        The thing must end in smoke.

                       That some large bugs have been the cause
                             We've had some keen debaters ;

                     But none till now thought little flies
                          Could turn out such vast (e)aters.

                       That this vast-eating insect thrives
                          On its new kind of food,

                       There is no doubt, for milliards are
                          Born daily to the brood :

                       Which shows potatoes 'mongst all plants
                        Still hold the foremost place,

                    In making insects breed in swarms,
                        As well's the human race.

                       Alas ! how many other crops
                        This aphis now will finish !

                       And though we may have gammon left,
                          We'll have no more of spinach.

                       On turnips, carrots, and on beets,
                        They jump about in flocks ;

                       Even dandelions are not free,
                        Nor nettles, grass, nor docks.

                       Let some strong dose be now devised
                        By chemic speculators,

                       To massacre, this very year,
                          These terrible vastators.

     Other lines appeared elsewhere, such as

                   " The butcher, the baker, the candlestick-mal

                  All jump'd out of Alfred Smee's rotten pot:

I Iand others might enumerate had space so to do.
CHAP. IV.]         FAMINE FOOD SOIREE".                  33

But in the midst of the investigations, in the midst of the

bitter controversies and the humorous skits on the subject, the

disease still went rapidly on, till the scourge became so great

that a famine ensued in the land, and in Ireland the people were

dying of starvation. Then, in the midst of their distress, the

people bethought them of turning to Heaven for assistance ;

and accordingly we find that, on the llth of October, 1846,

prayers to the Almighty were offered up in all the churches

and chapels in England and Wales, for relief from the dearth and

scarcity then existing in parts of the United Kingdom. A few

months later, on Wednesday, the 24th of March, 1847, a form of

prayer was used in all churches and chapels throughout England

and Ireland, that being the day appointed by proclamation for a

general fast and humiliation.

Meanwhile, my father was trying various experiments to

ascertain how far other kinds of food might be employed for

the relief of the poor starved population of these realms. On

Saturday, the 6th of February, 1847, he held a large soiree at

his residence in Finsbury Circus, expressly to exhibit his famine

food, at which between 200 and 300 of the most distinguished

professional and literary men of the metropolis were present.

The account of the various kinds of bread constituting the

famine food is given in the Appendix, No. XV.A.

The company tasted all the samples prepared, and pronounced

IMr. Smee to have succeeded beyond expectation in his attempt.

Though a mere child at the time, have a distinct recollection of

Ithe nauseous taste of the Iceland moss bread ; but the hay bread

and the hay biscuit remember having found very sweet and

palatable. It should here be added that my father did not himself

believe that any of these breads, excepting the cereal breads, could

compete with wheat in nutritive power or price, so that, besides

being inferior in quality, they could never be brought into use

from their additional cost.*

On the 10th of March of the same year Mr. Smee delivered a

lecture at the London Institution on aphides being the cause of

the potato disease. Whenever he delivered a lecture or wrote a

book, he always drew up on a card, or on one sheet of paper,

                   lecture or of the book. This he called the
It"hsekeplelatonn."ofthe
            And    ininlehcitsur"insgkehleetoon.n"ly  employed such brief notes
                                                           will here subjoin the
as were contained

skeleton of the lecture he delivered on the cause of the potato

                   * See 'Instinct and Reason,' p. 106.
34             MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                              [CHAP. IV.

disease, as it is a very good example of all of them. The lecture
clothed in its proper form will be found in the Appendix, No.

XV.B.

    Insect Plagues. 800,000, St. Augustine.          Barnes, 2000 miles

                                                         covered by them.

    Aphides.

    Demonstration :

               1. Live plants.

               2. Healthy.

               3. Sucks juices.

               4. Impairs qualities.

               5. Alters properties.

               6. Bad sap not nourish.

               7. Imperfect tissue dies.

               8. Death local, remote.

               9. Remote death entirely kill the plant.

              10. Wild plants resist better than cultivated.
              11. Cultivated plants ill resist.

              12. Deposition of fibre.

              13. Propagation of diseased fibre.
              14. Injury to plants hastens transformation.

              15. Growth of fungi.

      Destroyers of aphides ladybirds, gauze-wings, synphidas, ichneumons,
Chalcididse, birds.

    Great fleas and little fleas have smaller fleas to bite 'em ;
    These smaller fleas have lesser fleas, so on ad infinitum.

                     Aphides live on all plants.

                     Yastator potato no novelty.

                                Gangrene.

    Vastator, name, leaf, root, history, anatomy, chemistry.

                                Subsistence.

    Tendrils.               Oxyhydrogen.             Microscope.

                     Future prospects, transitions.

    I" will rebuke the devourer for your sake, and it shall not destroy the

fruits of the ground."

    Whenever my father found a plant infested by an aphis,

he used to secure some specimens, put them in a pill-box, and in

the evening place them in Canada balsam so as to carefully
               In this way he preserved all his evidences
examine them.

upon this point for future reference, and the name of the plant

on which the insect fed was immediately scratched on the glass

with a diamond, so that no source of error could possibly arise.

The mode of fixing the insect in Canada balsam was very simple :

a slip of glass was warmed over a candle, and a drop of the
CHAP. IV.]  MICROSCOPIC PREPARATIONS.          35

balsam was then placed upon it ; the insect, whilst yet alive,
was then placed on the balsam, and the glass was again very
gently warmed in order to kill the insect ; another piece of the glass

was then heated over a candle and placed on the insect, when the
creature was hermetically sealed up for ever.

     It is necessary (lie says) that the insect should be dry when it is

mounted, and we must take especial care not to apply too much heat,

Iwhich will corrugate the antennae and destroy the form of the insect.

strongly recommend to all entomologists this mode of preserving small
insects; and having once properly secured them, they will last for an
indefinite period, and can be handled without the slightest risk of

injury.*

Mr. Smee mounted many hundreds of these microscopic

preparations of the Aphis vastator, and of slices of diseased

potatoes ; and these slides have, after the lapse of nearly thirty

years, been the means by which this great controversy on the

potato disease has probably at last been settled. For in the winter

of 1876, when Mr. Worthington Smith was investigating the

subject of diseased potatoes, my father placed in his hands for

examination 360 slides of diseased potatoes and of aphides, all of

which the latter had himself mounted during the great potato

murrain of 1846-1847.    On placing these slides under a

powerful microscope, Mr. Smith discovered that some of the

aphides were completely filled with the fungus internally and

covered with it externally, and that gentleman has further demon-

strated that this insect punctures the potato, and inserts in it the
fungus. A full account of these recent observations of Mr. Smith,

together with two drawings which that gentleman has kindly

made for me from my father's mounted specimens of the Aphis

vastator, and of a diseased potato showing the resting spore of
the fungus within the aphis, will be found in the Appendix,

No. XV.c. By this it would appear that the primary cause of

the potato murrain of 1846-1847 was the aphis, and the

secondary cause the fungus.

The following question, which my father addressed to a well-

known actuary, is transcribed for the amusement of those who

may be fond of figures:

     An aphis arrived on my cucumber, January 1, 1861. It had ten young

ones at the end of ten days, ten more in ten days' time, and every suc-
ceeding ten days. Every young one had ten young ten days after birth,

            * See ' Potato Plant,' p. 14.

                                           D2
36      MEMOIK OF ALFRED SMEE.                                      [CHAP. IV.

and again every other ten days, till December 31st, 1861. How many
aphides in all, if the mother aphis and her whole progeny were alive on the

31st of December P
     Every aphis weighed -^ grain. What was the total weight of the aphides

so produced? ALFRED SMEE.

                 Answer.

    Let a = total number of generations from the mother aphis = 36.

    - -Let & = the number at each birth =  10,  6* + (a  -  2) &3 +  etc
                                            1)
    The formula will be 1 + ab + (a
    (a 35) b36.

    The answer to the first question, i.e. what number of aphides in all,

    is

    li1,234,567,901,234,567,901,234,567,901,234,567,861     aphides, or nearly
                sextillions of aphides.

    The answer to the second question is                 or nearly   78J quad-
       78,728,820,231,496,422,293,148,463 tons weight,
             rillions of tons weight.

     Besides interesting himself with aphides, we find him occu-
pied on other subjects ; for in 1846, in conjunction with one of
the managers, he was engaged on the ventilation of the theatre
of the London Institution. To draw comparisons is odious : yet we

cannot but wish that all public rooms were as well ventilated as
is the theatre of the London Institution. During different periods
of his life he was employed on the ventilation of various large
buildings, and the Grand Hotel at Brighton owed its proper

ventilation to him.

     During 1846 he was invited to take part in a discussion at
the Civil Engineers' on the explosion of boilers, as he was known
to have turned his attention to the subject.

    In 1847 he invented an ether-inhaler, which was exhibited

at his soiree. The first one was made by Messrs. Maw, of
Aldersgate Street. The ' Illustrated London News ' * says

     In a former number (245) we called attention to the important medical

discovery, whereby a state of the body could be produced by the inhalation
of ether, which renders the patient insensible to the pain of the most

severe operations. Since the discovery has been promulgated, medical
men have been actively engaged throughout the country in prosecuting
their inquiries upon the subject, and numerous forms of apparatus have
been devised for conducting the inhalation.

     It is found by experience that the more rapidly the effect is produced

                 January 30th, 1847.
CHAP. IV.]            SMEE'S ETHER-INHALEK.                                                     37

on the body the better is the result for the patient. It is upon this
idea that an inhaler has been contrived by Mr. Alfred Smee, surgeon

to the Bank of England, whereby the evaporization of

ether is promoted by warmth given to the apparatus from

a little chamber of hot water.

Mr. Smee's inhaler, which is here figured, was made
by Mr. Ferguson, of Smithfield; and consists of a tin

vessel, either circular or oval, about eight inches long

and three wide, divided into two compartments one

smaller (A), to contain hot water; the other larger (B),

to contain the ether. The larger compartment is divided

into two by a diaphragm, and has another opening to
admit the ether and the entrance of the air (D). Into
this larger compartment a tube is fixed, which has a valve

at the extremity (E), for inspiration, and another valve (G)
near the mouthpiece, for expiration. The mouth-piece

(F) has an india-rubber covering, to adapt itself to dif-
ferent mouths.

When this instrument is to be used, the smaller

chamber is filled with hot water (c), and a little ether,

an ounce for instance, is placed in the larger compart-
ment, which has sponge placed in it, to prevent its
                      itnhhealaartrioowns, ,thaendc,uri.rsenstai.do, f
moving  about. On                                                        air *passes  Sc mee's  FIG. 2.
in the  direction of                                                                            Ether-inhaler.
                                                                        to produce

far more rapid effects than when any other instrument is employed.
This instrument, with other ingenious arrangements for the inhalation

of ether, have been submitted to us by the proprietor of the celebrated
Depot for Inventions, 201, Strand.
38  MEMOIK OF ALFEED SMEE.                                   [CHAP. V.

    CHAPTER V.

    1848 TO 1849.

' The Eye,' fourth book Smee's optometer Smee's horizontal fish-tail burners

    Sheet of Accidents and Emergencies Royal Society : on its reducing its

    number of Fellows Personal appearance of Alfred Smee Love of his family

    His powers of abstraction His untidiness Indifference to dress His

    walk Jingling keys Quick temper Quick in action Sensitive to a slight

    Not jealous Impatient of opposition  Disliked arguments            Expected

    others to have the same quickness of apprehension as himself Works for

    others Disposition Never feared responsibility His dislike of routine

    work His charity His genial and social disposition Loved society, but

    disliked the London season being in summer His favourite authors.

ON the 16th and 23rd of March, 1848, Alfred Smee gave a course
of two lectures on Vision at the London Institution ; he also gave

other lectures at the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital, which
were afterwards incorporated in a book, and published under the
title of ' The Eye in Health and Disease.' The book had an

extensive sale and was translated into French. In it there is an

account of one of his clever contrivances for the adaptation of
glasses for impaired, aged, or defective sight. The optometer for

                                                                   FIG. 3. Optometer.

such is the name of the instrument is most simple in its con-
struction, yet most useful, and it should invariably be employed
by the optician before spectacles are sold to the applicant. The
instrument consists of a convex lens to which a graduated scale
is affixed of such a length, that convergent, parallel, and diver-
gent rays may be brought within a reasonable scope, and thus
the eye may be tested by it. In this book is also an account of
a novel kind of photometer, which he designed to judge of the
CHAP. V.]     IMPROVEMENT IN GAS-BUENERS.                                             39

Iamount of light; but shall have to speak of this instrument
Iwhen give an account of its being used at the eclipse of the

sun in 1858, so that there is no need of further describing it

here. There is also a description of his ingenious contrivance

for the better lighting of rooms by horizontal fish-tail gas-

burners.

     It occurred to me (lie writes) that the light should be placed at about
an angle of forty-five degrees if placed about the centre of the room, or if

near the ceiling, almost horizontal.

IIn my own library (and in his dining-

room, too), am using a star with
three fish-tail burners, so arranged

that the gas passes out horizontally,

a direction which causes the flame to

assume a curve eminently calculated    FlG - 4- Gas-burner and jet.

to illuminate the table. An enormous

increase of light is obtained by these means. From the very great

Isuperiority of the illuminating power obtained by this very simple
arrangement,  feel but little doubt that it will be at last generally

adopted.

He lived to see it universally adopted, although few if any

beyond his intimate circle of friends know to whom they are

indebted for originating this perfect manner of illumination.

The treatise contains also fifty short rules for the preservation

of sight, and for the choice of spectacles.

    It may suffice here to add that the eye was my father's

speciality, aad that over a series of years he was largely con-

sulted on that subject by a high class of patients. It is to me a

source of regret that other inducements caused him to abandon

in a great  measure this part   oBfrehwissteprr,ofe"sssoiond,istiinngwuihsihcehd.h"e  was,
to use the  words of Sir David

In 1848 he also brought out a sheet of Directions for Accidents

and Emergencies to be used before the arrival of medical aid.

This sheet was specially designed for the poor. For the title of

the sheet, which was made ornamental so that the poor should

hang it up in their cottages, an engraving after a painting

by Sir Joshua Eeynolds, in the Dulwich Gallery, was selected.
In this painting the idea of life is represented by an angel,

death is depicted by another figure, and disease in the form of

a child.

    A few other short papers also appeared from his pen during
this year, amongst which may be mentioned one in the ' Illus-

trated London News ' for December 2nd, 1848, ' On Electric

Light and Gas Companies.'
40  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                [CHAP. V.

     This year he was elected memher of the Hunterian Society.
     During the same year (1848), Mr. Smee's mind seems also to

have been bent on setting the Council of the Eoyal Society to
rights, for the ' Athenaeum ' on the 25th of November contains two

anonymous letters from his pen. Here it should be mentioned

that he was always adverse to the Koyal Society curtailing its

number of Fellows, whereby he considered the strength of the

Society was proportionately reduced. If the Institute of France

be taken as an example, then certainly his suppositions relative

to the Eoyal Society would give some grounds for apprehension.
He was also opposed to the system by which the publication and

rejection of learned papers are determined. In speaking of the
rejection of a valuable paper by Mr. Spencer, we find in his

history of Electro-Metallurgy these remarkable words :

     It is improper to throw the whole blame of the rejection of that paper

upon Dr. Lardner, for this is by no means the only essay of importance
which has been consigned to oblivion. The rejection of valuable papers is

a fault of the system, not of the man. At all the learned societies a paper

submitted to the society is referred to persons to report upon its merits,
and upon that report the committees act with regard to its publication
or suppression, which, in some cases, is facetiously termed a careful
deposition in the archives of the society, which expression literally means,
that it is placed in some large box from which it will be excluded from the

cheering influence of the sun's rays for ever. The examination into the
merits of any particular paper is, however, a most unthankful, disagree-
able, and troublesome office. And it is not, therefore, surprising that the
referees should sometimes exercise their characters as men, in supporting
their own or the opinions of their friends and those to whom they ai*e
under obligations, and occasionally forget their situation as judges. Their

services being gratuitous, entitle the referees to the heartiest thanks of the

public; but an important office like that they occupy, in which the pros-
perity of the whole country is interested, should decidedly not be held
without remuneration, and when remunerated the officers should be held

responsible for their decisions. One never can tell to what great end a
single new fact or application, though in an ill-drawn-up paper, may not

ultimately tend.*

     These remarks, it will be seen, are also applicable to other

societies.

   IPerhaps before this should have given an account of my

father's outward appearance. He was short, not exceeding 5 feet
8 inches in height. As a young man he was very slim ; became,
however, in the prime of his life corpulent; but the last eight
years again became very thin, and indeed emaciated. Although

    * See ' Electro-Metallurgy,' p. xix.
CHAP. V.]   PERSONAL APPEARANCE.                               41

short, he would have been taken for a tall man when seen sitting in

a chair. There appears to have been an arrest of growth between

his hip and his knee ; otherwise, as his family frequently heard

him remark, he ought to have been a man nearly six feet high.

He always sat bolt upright, and disliked lounging chairs. His

face was singularly handsome, and he possessed delicate yet well-

defined features. He was very dark, and had a clear complexion,

his cheeks being slightly tinged with colour. Through intense

mental work his hair became grey at the early age of eighteen.

IWhen first remembered him, his hair was of an iron grey and
Ivery short and curly. When a boy, he had, as have heard,

beautiful  long ringlets   which   fell over   his shoulders,    and all
who saw    him called him   the "  beautiful                   prime of
                                              boy." In the
life his curly locks used to glisten like silver in the sun. If,

however, he were not quite well, his hair would assume a
leaden tint ; but no sooner was he again better in health, than

his hair resumed its usual silvery beauty. His forehead was
broad and prominent, and singularly square. His mouth was

small, his lips thin and firmly set, and his face was set off by

a pretty dimple in his chin, which, when he was animated in

conversation or when he smiled, enhanced the beauty of his
countenance. Later in life he wore a beard which robbed him

of a part of his good looks. He had also small ears, a well-

formed nose, small hands singularly handy in manipulation

and small feet. But perhaps the most striking feature of his
appearance were his eyes, which were truly wonderful. All who

Isaw him in former days can testify to this. When a young
man, they would flash fire.        have myself seen many instances

of the marvellous power of a glance of his eye on persons trying

to conceal any matter or to prevaricate. It was terrible to such

Ipersons !  must remark that my brother and myself from early
     Here

childhood were constantly with my father. We were always

with him at his breakfast and frequently during his dinner, for

my father, unless conducting his experiments or seeing patients,

was never thoroughly happy unless he had his family around

him. In the morning he used to write at the breakfast-table

    whether his books or his pamphlets, or his papers, or his
reports or letters whilst my brother and myself were supposed
to be playing about the room. But too often our play was
stopped to make observations upon him. Yet at other times we

were quite noisy, and would have, as we used to say, a bear-fight
42           MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                        [CHAP. V.

between ourselves, when down we would go on the floor on our

hands and knees and pretend to be two bears fighting. Nothing of

Iour play or conversation escaped my father, busy and seemingly

absorbed as' he was with his writings. Afterwards have heard
him observe, that during those breakfast hours he obtained a
greater insight into our separate characters than he would have
done had he seen us only when we were fully aware that he was
watching us, for we as children looked upon him as an extra-

ordinary man, who was so absent that we might do what we
liked, and he would not notice it. How differently perhaps
should we have behaved had we known that his eyes too were

upon us !

    In this way we heard and saw much of great interest, for

he had the remarkable faculty of being able to write on the

most abstruse questions with people talking around him in
the same room, so great were his powers of abstraction and

concentration. It was his custom to write books, as it were,

in the mind, as he moved about in any ordinary avocations of
life. When composed in the mind, it frequently became, as he
has written,

a mere question of mechanical labour to transmit to paper those ideas

Iwhen thought out ; and so mechanical is the act of writing, that

frequently find myself using the pen on important matters whilst
conversing with those around me on the ordinary trivial subjects of
the day.*

    Sometimes his mind could attend to two matters at one time,

as instanced above, and sometimes even three operations of the

brain would occur to him simultaneously, besides           m" taincykinsglighotfera
matters which the mind apprehended, such as the

watch or the passage of a figure before the eye," &c. However,

in laughing  with him over his doing       three  thhein"ggseanteroanlely  time, so
contrary to  the adage, he would own       that                             made a

hash of that." But duality of mental action or thought was an

ordinary habit with him. He has written concerning this

      With me it is so constant, that it is my custom to read or even to
write upon one subject when my family are conversing upon another.

IMost of my published treatises have been written, after having been

thought out, when have been talking with my family and friends upon
the ordinary subjects which are discussed at a family gathering on a

winter's evening.f

             * See ' Mind of Man,' p. 13.         t Idem.
CHAP. V.]        PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS.         43

     But against this there were times when the mind required to
isolate itself, as it were, from the external world, and concen-
trate thought upon the subject to be worked out.

IThe ear must not hear nor the eye see. Many times have been so
Ithoroughly absorbed in developing a general scheme, that whilst walking

the public streets have found myself standing still to grasp, as it were,
the relation of one part of the complicated details of the subject to another ;
Iaiid
Ifind
one day when it  "poAurefidnewditahy,"rasino   was amused on passing a friend to
that had said,                                entirely was my mind engrossed by

the consideration of the matter before me.

   IThis was by no means an uncommon case; for on similar

mistakes arising from his absorption of mind, might quote many
laughable occurrences and sources of merriment to his family.
His powers of memory were truly remarkable.

      He was once at an important meeting where no reporter was present,
and it was considered desirable for a report to appear. Upon application
two or three days afterwards, he wrote out such of the speeches as were
required, in such a manner that the substance was so correctly given that
no person found out that his very words had not been taken down in the

room by a shorthand- writer. Those proceedings happened to interest the
public, and have been copied from paper to paper, and from newspapers

to standard works.*

     After this it may seem a paradox to state that he could never
learn anything by rote : to commit Homer or Virgil to memory

would have been to him an impossibility. Yet he could quote

numerous favourite passages from the immortal Shakspeare's

works. When at King's College, he used to write the lectures

that he there attended verbatim after he came home. He did

not take notes during the lectures, but afterwards, for his memory

was so perfect that he could often write them out as they were

delivered. It has been told him that he could learn from a book
by heart if he only chose, to which assertion he always gave

an unequivocal denial. Yet any image that had once been re-

gistered on his brain he never forgot. As an instance of this,

he would remember thirty years after where he had placed a

most trivial object, which ordinary individuals speedily forgot ; yet

Ihe did not take any trouble to remember, but did remember
nevertheless.    must confess that his family would not have

regretted the absence of such a power of memory, for he was
particularly untidy and careless ; and as he used every room in
the house as his study, and as he never dreamt of sorting or

                 * ' Instinct and Reason,' p. 52.
44                       MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                  [CHAP. V.

Iarranging his numerous papers and letters (and think few houses

had so many letters and various papers sent to them as his had),

it ^followed that the house was one huge writing room and waste-
paper basket, the intricacy of which no one knew but himself ;

and as he quite ignored that there were such creatures as house-

maids in the world, he had but too frequently to suffer for his

determined forgetfulness of that necessary appendage to society.

Then, if some cherished scrap of paper or some letter requiring

instant answering (the moment my father had an idea in his head
it must be done that very instant), or whatever object it might

be that was required, were not instantly forthcoming, then

ruesome were the faces in our                                        Whoever could hold
                                                                   please, mum, master
Ifhis ground, now was the time
                             household                          !
                                 "
                                         you
                             !
Iwon't
Itable
    ?  h"avweashitshepainpceersssatnout chqeudes;tiohnowfroamm     to clear the  breakfast
                                                                the servants.
                                                                                 At last

tried to keep his multifarious papers in somewhat like order. He
             "
                             that paper  or letter which came
                )*Vhere
Iwould ask,              is                                                      on such a

subject, three or four years ago?        want it immediately;" and

matters had to be arranged so that what was required could

I Ibe found in the twinkling of an eye. All was well so long as

   remained at home ; but if by chance left home for two or
three days on a visit (I never left home for more than ten days
together, and then never more than three times in my life), then

Ieverything went wrong with the papers. On one of these occa-

sions received the following letter from my father :

      MY DEAR MARY, The head magpie has so badly taught the other

magpies that all think themselves quite competent to take the place of
the head magpie, and nothing left out for a moment is thrust under the

pillows, or behind the sofa, so that the house is so magpied that every-

Ithing is unfindable. It is a great dispensation of Providence that am so
Iheavy that they cannot hide me, or should be hid in an old shoe, or

perhaps in the key -hole, and never be able to find myself again.

     My father was also extremely indifferent about his dress. So

long as they were baggy and he could slip quickly into his clothes,
that was all he required. Unless it was very- cold weather, gloves
he would never wear, excepting sometimes in the evening, and
then he insisted upon having them about two sizes too large for
him, that he might put them easily on, his fingers not being
inserted more than half-way in them. But they were too

frequently never put on ; yet from the peculiar twistings and

contortions they had undergone during the evening, they were
invariably quite unfit to appear on any future occasion.
CHAP. V.]           PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS.                                           45

   To show his utter indifference to dress, he was. going one

evening to a large dinner-party, at which he wished to appear
at his hest. His dress-clothes were duly put out for him (he
never looked to such things himself) in his dressing-room ; by

ill luck, an old worn-out garden coat was lying near : my father,

thinking of utterly different things from what he should be at

that moment, slipped into his old rusty worn-out garden coat,

and went off to the dinner-party ; when to his discomfort, whilst

sitting at the table next to the hostess, he suddenly discovered

the mistake. Speaking of evening dress, it should be observed

that my father ever had a great partiality for tail coats, and

for many years of his life nothing could induce him to wear any

other form of coat.

    Besides this peculiarity in his dress, my father had also a pecu-

liarity in his walk if walk we may call for he usually used to
                                   ?
run along, taking very short steps but what with his short stepsa
                                              ;
and his peculiar run, was no easy matter to keep up with him.
                    a                        I it,

                         it
He usually had large bunch of keys in one hand, which he

jingled all the time he was running or walking. Oh, those keys
                                                                                        :
                                                                                                            !
I  cannot think of them without horror. What have my nerves

suffered through ye,         keys  If he was thinking, jingle went

the keys            he was writing, again jingle went the keys when-
           ;

             : if
                 if

                     I
ever an opportunity was afforded him to jingle those precious keys

they were jingled.      have often wondered he did not jingle them

in his sleep        they had been near him, am sure he would have

done so. In later life he gave up this dreadful habit, to the

satisfaction of his family.

   My father's temper was quick, as indeed was everything he did.

When once his mind was made up for any given action, he seldom

paused, but acted immediately, and  thus he got through such
                                    it

                                        is

                                                                                     :
an immense amount of work. Whilst others considered he acted.

To supposed slight he was particularly sensitive this unfor-
   a
tunately caused him at times to take offence when none wasa

intended. He had not the slightest tinge of jealousy, and he was

always willing to give, and did continually give, helping hand
                                   a
                                                                      a

                                                                          a

                                                                        it
to any who required it. As young man he had suffered con-

siderably from the jealousy of others, his elders, and                                  made

him have            feeling heart for others in        similar position.

Opposition, however, my father could not brook. What he saw

distinctly, that he expected others also to see. This made him

an impatient teacher. He always expected his hearers to meet

him more than half-way in understanding subject, forgetting,
                                                    a
46           MEMOIK OF ALFRED SMEE.                         [CHAP. V.

or rather ignoring, that they might not be even cognizant of
the facts on which his conclusions were based. Arguments
he detested. To his mind a proposition was either right or

wrong : and if one person took one side of a question, and

another person took another, no amount of argument, he con-
tended, would alter the opinion of either party, but would

make both sides more pertinacious in their respective views. So
my father would never permit an argument to be carried on by
his family in his presence, which was often vexatious to them,
the younger members being of an argumentative and contra-
dictory turn of mind. As it has been just above observed, he was
extremely quick in at once seizing the points of a question, or in
deciding on any course of action. This made him intolerant

of slowness of comprehension in others; and once having

determined upon any course of action, nothing would irritate

him more than for others to begin to talk or discuss upon that

which, as his quick mind had already perceived, allowed of only

one course of action. Woe betide that unfortunate individual,
for Alfred Smee would invariably cut short his " twaddle."
                                                            But

in this it must be admitted he committed a grievous mistake, for

this quickness of character is not born in everyone, and most

persons' amour propre would be wounded on being told in forcible

Ilanguage that their talk was not worth listening to. This, must

admit, was the worst feature in my father's character. Though

impetuous to a degree, never had a man a kinder heart than had

Alfred Smee. What labour would he not give himself for the

good of others (entirely without the domestic circle) ! His
family, not                                  sufficiently philanthropic spirit,
have often    possessing   p"erWhahpys    a  you work so hard for So-and-so ?
             said to him,               do

Yywooruuitrewrkiilnoldfnnteehvseessretboelwintaehrsadnskuehsedimd f.o"irnviat"rYiaooburl,yaSroteo-aonanddl-dys,ok"ilwlfionirlgl onytohoteurarsspepwlrfeh."coiathtdeeo
not deserve it." This was but too often the case ; he has often

overworked himself for several who have proved ungrateful. Upon
these remarks his family were always censured, and reminded
that it was not right to do good only when we were sure of our
reward, but that it was our duty to be always trying to do good
to others. Alfred Smee was also most kind-hearted, and would
never willingly inflict pain by word or look, or by action, to any
person or creature, unless, indeed, his ire was roused by being
slighted, molested, or personally abused, either by words or

writing, or, to use a homely yet a favourite expression of his, if
CHAP. V.]  HIS DISLIKE OF ROUTINE WORK.                        47

anyone " trod on his toes ; " then he spared not his foe, hut with

his pen he cut deep until he made his adversary writhe again.

My father never feared responsibility, neither did he fear

asserting that which he considered to be the truth. Where others

shrunk, he ventured ; where others wavered, he decided : he was

essentially a man of action. He trusted his own powers and

acted up to them. He had a great idea of persons forming them-

selves decided opinions upon a subject and acting up to      them.
He writes to his son from abroad, on a question in dispute,
                                                             " You

must come to the front and form a clear, decided opinion, and

contend for a very definite course of action upon the best opinion

that can be formed."

With my father's love for action, and with his restless dis-

position, it is a wonder that he did not take the management of

his house into his hands ; for that, however, he ever showed an

indifference quite remarkable. He had his own peculiar ways

of managing his own money matters. So much a year he put

by for house expenditure and for his family, and so much he

allowed himself for pocket-money. What he allowed for himself

was mostly spent on treats and presents to the different members

of his family, or for charity. So long as no more money was

required for the house, or for the necessities appertaining to

the family's social condition, well and good ; he then troubled

himself but little, if indeed at all, how the money was expended.

Especially did the evil grow upon him in later life of a dislike
of routine work. He detested attending to any matters of

detail, and liked instead to soar in the regions above, and pro-
pound those noble generalizations of physical force and mental
phenomena, which it has been more especially the object of

this work to show.

    In charity he gave not a little, and from what his family have
learnt from persons who have proved grateful for his bounty, it

seems that in the bestowing of his charity he let not his left
hand know what his right hand did. But although he was very

beneficent, yet he was wise in his acts of charity ; for he liked to

assist persons by procuring for them some occupation befitting

them, that they might thereby become independent workers of

their own livelihood instead of living upon the charity of others.
This little trait is seen in the following anecdote. For some

years a poor woman sat on the steps of a house situated at the
corner of a street which he daily passed, and solicited alms of
the passers-by. One day it struck my father, Why should not
48  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. V.

this woman get her own livelihood ? He accordingly accosted
her, and asked her, Why did she always sit there doing nothing ?
Why did she not sell newspapers to the passers-by, and thereby

earn something instead of begging. It was a good position for

Itfwwrheoialqmltuagepninvu,teerp"dmosepeha,carrtvefoedoriftn.to"thheem"ochniIotfeynysthoeaftotwLoiagsnsedatolaln,t".hceosrann"iedeArwlmasopsyna,"epf,aertrhesine,prl,ieaand"dbtutahsnkeyoebpotaohdnoiydsr

sovereign, and get some newspapers, and let me see you to-
morrow selling them." The woman did so, and for many years
she might have been observed at the same corner, selling her
stock of papers, and looking much happier than when she solicited

Ialms of the passers-by. She is now dead having died of old

age. doubt not that sovereign given her in that manner
enabled her to end her days in more comfort, and certainly
with greater happiness. For her little business throve every
year more and more ; indeed, it must have become a capital

speculation, for after her death another old woman appeared

carrying on the same business.

     Many instances similar to the above might be enumerated to
show my father's beneficence. After his death, how many of the

poor came to tell his family that they, too, mourned his loss
that they, too, had indeed lost a true friend !

     From Alfred Smee's genial and social disposition it may be

inferred that he loved society, and shone in it. Much as my

father liked being in society, yet never could he tolerate the

London season being in the spring and summer months, when
the country was looking its best. For no sooner did the

flowers begin to bloom, the trees to push forward their buds,

and the birds to warble their melodious songs, than his soul

panted to be amidst such scenes, rather than in hot ill-ventilated

rooms during the lovely months of May, June, and July. Why

the season could not be in winter, when people would more
enjoy social intercourse in warm rooms than they could in hot
weather, he never could understand. He was not a fox-hunter

himself, and perhaps had not sufficient sympathy with the par-
takers of that sport, and, therefore, he could not appreciate the
motives for persons preferring the country in the winter to the
summer.

     My father's mode of reading was cursory. He had a peculiar
facility in seizing at once what was valuable in any book without
perusing it from beginning to end. He would read philosophic
CHAP. V.]          HIS FAVOUKITE READING.                                                   49

works or books on travels, but novels lie never could be induced

Ifto read, and always declared, and indeed boasted, he had never
read a novel through in his life.                       he saw anybody about him

                                                        it

                                                                          it,
                                                                                       it,
with a novel, he would contrive to get hold of                                              and would

then amuse himself by holding up to ridicule by picking out

in an instant one of the weaker parts of and, reading aloud

itnhge lypaisnsqaugier,e,wo"uWldhatht enp,leatosurtehe  discomfort of the reader, laugh-
                                                        could be derived by reading such

stuff?" He disliked books where truth and fiction were so inter-

woven that the one could not be distinguished from the other.
But books of fiction, such as fairy tales, and other works of

imagination or satire, he liked. And so those wonderful con-

ceptions from the vivid imagination of Shakspeare were to my

father the most delightful specimens of the kind. My father's

keen sense of imagination and of fun enabled him to enjoy

farces, comedies, and pantomimes, and doubt whether any child
                   a

                                      I

                                                               a
                                                                                   a

                                                                                          is a
had more delight in the transformation scenes of pantomime
than had my father. He therefore delighted in taking children

to see them. On friend's not allowing his children to see

pantomime until he considered them old enough to go behind

the sfcenes and see how delusive everything was, my father ex-

pressed his utter disapprobation of such course, and remarked
that children should be brought up to know that no one

exempt from being taken in by his senses. Those children,
my father asserted, who were brought up without imagination,
and who never saw tricks played before them without having

them all explained, were sure to be the ones who would be the
most likely to be deceived in after-life, and to become the victims

of designing men.
50  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                             [CHAP. VI.

                       CHAPTEE VI.

                       1849 TO 1854.

Fifth book, ' Electro-Biology 'Lecture on Electro-Biology' Principles of the
    Human Mind' Cholera Cholera medicine given away 'Instinct and Koason'

     written to illustrate Electro-Biology Sketch of the general plan of the work
        Smee's hot and cold detector Third edition of 'Electro-Metallurgy'

     brought out ' Process of Thought ' written Long articles in the ' Illustrated
     London News ' Plants that can be grown in London Lecture at Newbury

        Writes a memoir of Wyon Lectures to the clerks of the Bank of England
    on 'Instinct and Keason' First visit to Paris Alfred Smee an angler

    A regular attendant at St. Paul's Cathedral Power of prayer.

ALFRED SMEE'S great work, ' The Elements of Electro-Biology,'
which embraces his ' Natural System of Mental Philosophy,'

appeared in February 1849. On this work he had been engaged
at intervals for the last ten years. The important researches

detailed in this work cost him an immense amount of time,

labour, and thought, and they were nearly all worked out at his
                                " unaided," as he has sadly written,
residence in Finsbury  Circus,  public laboratories afford to their
" by the advantages    which

fortunate occupiers." Indeed, he had not even an assistant to

aid him, if we except the services at times of a young lad in

his teens, who was only too pleased to run and search for cats,
or perform other little services for my father.* At one time the

dearth of cats occasioned by these electro-biological researches

was so great, that friends used to shut up their pussies to prevent
them falling into the hands of the enemy. " The anxiety among

the ladies became at last so distressing, that one young lady, a

personal friend, wrote the following amusing letter :

      MY DEAR SIR, Having been apprised by my brother of the instruc-
tions which you have given to your page to obtain violent possession of the

       * This lad was bright and intelligent,  and he learnt a good deal from  my
father. He has since done well in life.
CHAP. VI.]  LECTUKE ON ELECTEO-BIOLOGY.                   51

Isacred person of my only and beloved child, beg to say, that if such
Iinstructions are not countermanded, shall be obliged to put personal

restraint on the actions of my darling ; in consequence of that restraint he
will pine away and sink into an early grave, leaving a tender mother and
a doting grandmother to bewail his loss. Mr. Smee, you are a father, and

I I Ito your feelings as a father appeal. need say no more, am sure. Be

generous, and my thanks, my warmest and most unbounded gratitude,

shall be yours.

The carrying out of the numerous experiments required for this

great work was laborious, and his private practice and his official

duties taking up the best part of the day, he was obliged to steal

those hours that are by most persons devoted to rest and sleep.

The physical experiments relating to the laws of voltaic electricity

are to be found in * Electro-Metallurgy,' and we have seen that
' Sources of Physics ' was expressly written as an introduction to

the 'Elements of Electro-Biology.' There is such a lucid plan

Iof this book in ' Chambers's Edinburgh Journal ' that have
Itranscribed it among my father's writings, at No. XVI. of the
Appendix.   do not know by whom the account was written.
In April of the same year Mr. Smee delivered a lecture at the

London Institution on Electro-Biology before a crowded audience.

At this lecture Mr. Smee's injections of the brain were ex-

hibited, which elicited these words from one of the daily papers,
" These injections were of surpassing beauty, and well illustrated
the exclamation of the inspired Psalmist, 'How fearfully and
wonderfully are we made !' "

     The lecture was afterwards printed, and published with the
' Principles of the Human Mind,' written as a sequel to ' Electro-

Biology.' This as the learned Dr. Pereira wrote, "Your lec-
tures on Electro -Biology and the Principles of the Human Mind

Iare very briefly but clearly drawn up, and will aid much in read-
ing your longer copy"  have transcribed in the Appendix,
No. XVII. Besides this lecture, Mr. Smee gave others on the

same subject elsewhere. Throughout the country he was re-

peatedly asked to deliver lectures, but he had not time at his

disposal so to do.

     This year also he wrote (the 3rd of March, 1849) in the
'Morning Chronicle' a short article on Gutta-percha and its

Uses.

The summer of 1849, it may be remembered, was a sad one

for numbers of persons ; for that direful scourge, pestilence, in

the form of cholera, had made its ravages felt throughout the

                                         E2
52             MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                     [CHAP. VI.

length and breadth of the land. My father was himself attacked
Iby it towards the close of the summer :    happily he    recovered, yet
   believe he permanently suffered from     its effects.
                                                          In September

we find him investigating into the cause of this direful malady,
                                            incorporated in a paper
and the results of his inquiry     are
which appeared in the ' Lancet.'  (See      Appendix, No. XVIII.) It
should here be observed that whenever an epidemic of cholera

ensued, he had large quantities of cholera medicine (his own
prescription) made up and largely distributed. No one who came
to the house and asked for cholera medicine, whether for himself

or for friends, was refused. Numbers of persons flocked to the

house and availed themselves of this privilege.

    The close of this year was to bring a heavy affliction to Alfred

Smee, in the loss of his mother, to whom he was devotedly

attached, and for whom he held the highest respect and esteem.

He felt this loss most acutely, and his mind seemed for a time

quite unable to throw off its sorrow and pursue further scientific
investigations. At length Dr. Eoupell, the senior physician to

St. Bartholomew's, persuaded him to write an illustration or key
to ' Electro-Biology,' whereby the abstract principles of that

important work could be illustrated by facts, so that it might be

more readily comprehended by a larger portion of mankind. No

sooner did my father commence this new work than his wonted

energy was roused, and he entered with such heart and soul into
' Instinct and Season ' (for that was the name of the book) that it
was published in April 1850.

     He  did   not even    commence to      write the book till the   beOgin-
ning of  that   year, and                                            a work,
                            it is a matter   of surprise how such

full of coloured plates and of various woodcuts, could have been

got out in such a marvellously short period.
    In the first chapter of ' Instinct and Eeason ' he treats of the
relation of Mind to Life, in which he makes the comparison
between man, animals, plants, stones, and pieces of mechanism.
For an example of animal existence he gives the dog, and shows
Ihow the volitions of animals are regulated by experience, to prove

which he gives numerous facts ; and, indeed, may here observe
that the great charm of this treatise consists in the most abstruse
laws of mental action being all made palpably clear to the mind
by various facts set forth in the form of interesting anecdotes,
nearly  all of which were facts that had
of his  own observation and experience.     come   under the range
                                                   showin^ how the
                                            After
CHAP. VI.]  ANALYSIS OF ' INSTINCT AND KEASON.'              53

mind is dependent upon the brain and nervous system, he passes

on to consider the Organs of Sensation in man and in animals.

Then pleasure and pain are fully described ; pain being proved

by abundant illustrations to be absolutely necessary to our

welfare, and its absence impossible in a material world. The

fourth chapter is devoted to Memory in Man and Animals.

Without memory all that ennobles man is destroyed, and he is

lowered almost to the condition of a plant. Reason in Man and

Animals is then exemplified. Up to this part of the treatise, it

has been shown that man, in respect to the powers of mind which

he possesses, is similar to animals ; and yet we know that man

Iffar exceeds all living creatures in the faculties of the mind.

mankind possessed no further faculties than what have been

already enumerated, he would be no whit better than the beast ;

therefore, in the chapter following that on Eeason, those other

faculties which entitle man to hold the first place in the scale of

Creation are considered, and so the greatest works of man are

here set forth as illustrations to prove his superiority over the

brute beast. Passing from the operations of man, he next treats

of Instinct. Accordingly, the works of animals, birds, and other

creatures occupy the greater part of the seventh chapter. Instinct

is also shown to exist in childhood. This chapter is particularly

interesting to those possessed of the taste for natural history.

Beautiful coloured plates illustrating the various and curious

specimens of bird-nests, wasp-nests, spider-webs, ant-nests, bee-

hives, and nests of other creatures, form a valuable adjunct to

this chapter. Then he proceeds to define Intuitive Ideas, and

shows their influence on mankind. Thence he proceeds to show

that man has the faculty of expressing his ideas by sounds or

marks. From words and language he proceeds to compare the

works of man with the works of Nature, and shows that there is

a limitation of the works of man. He then passes on to the

Theory of Instinct and Eeason, devotes a chapter to Eeason and

Faith, and another to Perverted Eeason. Then he gives a

chapter to the various Families of Man, and shows that even the

savages and the lowest types of man possess faculties which give

to him a superiority over all animals. A great gulf divides the

mental powers of the lowest type of man from that of animals,

which can never, he declares, be bridged over. The natural

Classification of Mankind ends this highly original and interesting

work on Instinct and Eeason. The illustrations to this book are

very beautiful : it has ten large coloured plates, and  is,  besides,
54               MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.          [CHAP. VI.

interspersed with numerous woodcuts.* Although the work itself

is based on such an abstruse subject as mental philosophy is
generally considered to be, yet it is so interwoven with anec-
dotes, most of which had come under his own observation, on

natural history and other subjects, that not only does the book
afford a forcible illustration to ' Electro-Biology ' and ' The Mind

of Man,' but it is also admirably suited to be placed in the hands

of the young ; for by interesting the reader in the investigation

of Nature, he is led on to discipline the mind, and thereby able

Ito seek a knowledge of the laws of Grod, obey the divine will, and
act rightly to his fellows.     know of no better book for a prize
Iat school than is ' Instinct and Keason.' Unfortunately at the

present moment the work is out of print ; but hope that a new

edition may appear, as it would afford a lucid illustration to that
work which has been based on ' Electro-Biology,' namelv, ' The

Mind of Man.' f
    In ' Instinct and Reason ' is a description of one of Mr. Smee's

clever little contrivances, which he called the Hot and Cold

                 Fio. 5. Hot and Cold Detector.

Detector ; " a trifle " which he conceived in order to inform him
of the temperature of a small hot-house behind his house.}

     * The illustrations for ' Instinct and Reason,' such as the various bird-nests
and birds, wasp-nests, fossils, minerals, the South Sea Islanders' various im-
plements, &c., were arranged in a long case which formed one complete side of
our drawing-room at Finsbury Circus.
    f 'The Mind of Man' was
                                published  in 1875, and was written as another
edition of ' Electro-Biology.'

    | See ' Instinct and Reason/ p. 97.
CHAP. VI.]  THE HOT AND COLD DETECTOR.  55

    INow my plants (lie writes) would be injured if the heat fell below 50

or rose above 90, and therefore wished to have some contrivance which
should inform me in my own study whether the temperature were remain-
ing or not within these limits. For this pui*pose a thermometer was made

for me into which two platinum wires were inserted, which came in contact

respectively with the mercury at those two points (fig. 5). By this con-
trivance, when the heat either fell below or rose above these two points,

the mercury and platinum were not in contact, and a voltaic current could

not be maintained. Telegraphic communications were laid down from

these two platinum wires to my dwelling-house, and a large pair of zinc
and copper plates were sunk into the ground for a battery. By attaching

the wires to a galvanometer we can always ask how the temperature is ;

and, by attaching an alarum, a gardener might be warned of any accident
I Iat any time of the night.
            must say, that had the care of so valuable
I Ia collection of plants as that of Kew, should never be easy till had
such an apparatus in my bed-room to tell me if any of my plants were

under unfavourable circumstances.

This hot and cold detector was also modified and used under

other circumstances than telling the temperature of a hot-house.
Many years ago Mr. Smee's father had a cottage at Clapton, on the

banks of the river Lea. The garden abounded with fruit, which the

boys in the neighbourhood were only too glad to avail themselves

of generally choosing the time for their thefts when the family

were at dinner. Now one day my father attached fine thread to

the wires of the battery, in such a manner that as soon as the

boys were fairly in the garden they must insensibly move one of

these threads. Immediately down went the alarum in the house,

out ran my father, followed by his brothers and by his brother-in-

law. The boys, surprised in the very act of taking the fruit, were

soundly thrashed, and one of them having a squint was marched

Ioff into the house by my father, and then and there had to submit
to the operation of having it cut.  am afraid that boy's ideas of

right and wrong must have been from henceforth rather confusing.

He had done wrong, for the effect of which he immediately

derived benefit, which he would not have derived had he done

what was right and had kept out of the garden. Let us hope, how-

ever, that he possessed a contented mind, and that he went not forth

again to steal fruit, in order to derive further benefits therefrom.

     The beginning of 1851 found Mr. Smee re-writing and bring-
ing out in an enlarged form a third edition of ' Electro-Metal-

lurgy.' This was followed in the month of March by a short

treatise from his pen on ' Process of Thought,' which contains a

lengthy description of the Kelational and Differential Machines.*

     * Woodcuts and explanations of the relational and differential machines are
to be found iu the ' Miud of Man,' pp. 94, 100.
56      MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                                           [CHAP. VI.

IAs this treatise has   since been incorporated in his last work,
                         refer the reader to that book for further
' The Mind of Man,'

information on the subject.              to  that  most interesting

    In May he became one of the jurors
of all exhibitions the one held in Hyde Park.
    Between the months of May and of September he wrote
several long and interesting articles for the ' Illustrated London
News,' on various articles exhibited in the Exhibition. Amongst
these' may be mentioned 'On the Origin of the Forces which
have been employed in the Manufacture of the Articles exhibited,'
which appeared in that journal on the 10th of May, 1851, as well
as another article, ' On the Application of Electricity.' On the
17th of May that journal contained the following articles from
his pen : ' Light and its Applications ;' ' Electricity ' (Supple-
mental Notice); 'Dumas's Expanding Model of a Man.' On
May 24th, ' Heat and its Application.' On June 7th, ' Mechanical
Force.' On June 14th, 'The Food of Man.' On June 21st,
'Ibbetson's Castings.' On July 5th, ' Chemitypy, Stylegraphy,
                     '  ' Microscopical                                               '  ' Food of
and Galvanography  ;                     Preparations                               ;

Man'    o(Nf oM. an2)' ;(No'P. h3il)o.sopOhnicaAluguInststr2unmd,en' Wts.a'rdiaOnn   July    19th,
' Food                                                                                          On
                                                                                    Cases.'

August 9th, ' Surgical Instruments.'
    Besides these long articles in the ' Illustrated London News,'
there are long articles on ' Electricity,' ' Electro-Metallurgy,' and
other matters, in the ' Morning Chronicle ' for the 15th and 31st

of May.
     The following extracts from the article in the ' Illustrated

London News ' on Wardian Cases is here quoted, as it may

interest those who are fond of plants, and who are obliged to
dwell in a smoky town, to know which can be grown under such

adverse circumstances.

      In London (says he) but very few plants will thrive. The Oriental plane
rears its head in the heart of the city, in Cheapside, and forms a stately tree.

Russell Square and Guildford Street exhibit also noble specimens of this

beautiful tree ; yet by coming into leaf late, and shedding its foliage early,
it is not so susceptible of those influences which injure other plants. The
lime-tree will also partially flourish ; and in the very centre of the Bank

two noble and ancient limes shade the parlour from the scorching sun of
summer, and yearly cast forth delicious perfume from abundant flowers.
With these exceptions, flowers and vegetable structures can scarce be
cultivated in London, except with the aid of a Ward's case. Residing in
the very centre of the metropolis, we now write with two beautiful Ward's
cases before us, which exhibit the most luxuriant foliage. In these cases

we have at this moment the beautiful wax-plant, or Hoya carnosa, in
CHAP. VI.]  WARDIAN CASES.                               57

abundant flower. "We have recently introduced the newly -imported and
lovely Hoya bella, which is also now in flower ; and the odoriferous Francisco,
Hopeana is always ready to refresh us by its scent on opening the door of
the case. We have five species of Lycopodia, which gratify the eye by
their luxuriant green ; and no less than fifteen or sixteen species of exotic
ferns gladden the eye by their charming forms, their verdant foliage, and
luxuriant appearance. The leaves of the Maranta bicolor, never soiled by
wet, are of surpassing beauty; and several species of Achomenes are

rapidly growing, to display their brilliant colours in the latter part of
summer. Many of our plants have been in their present situation for
ten years, and so the delight which we have had in the observation and

cultivation of them in the Wardian case makes us look with increased

interest upon those first examples of construction which Mr. Ward has

contributed to the Exhibition.

      We take this opportunity of calling attention to the Wardian cases,
because, much as their use has increased, still they are not nearly so much
employed in large towns as they ought to be. The cultivation of plants is
an occupation delightful in itself, and one that is calculated to afford

intense pleasure to those who follow the amusement. In that gloomy

prison of Pentonville, where the inmates are not allowed from their cell to
see a passing cloud, it is recorded that the only pleasure which a prisoner

could find was to watch from day to day the growth and flowering of a
few pieces of grass, shepherd's purse, chickweed, and groundsel, when he
took his daily airing in the little space allotted to his walk. Every London

child should have his Wardian case, if on ever so small a scale. The love

of the cultivation of plants would grow with the knowledge of their per-

fection, and the mind would be led insensibly by the true and natural

process of thought from a study of Nature's works to the contemplation

of Nature's G-od.

     And the following account taken from ' Instinct and Eeason '
will further show my father's observation on this question.

In this vast metropolis so much poisonous gas and smoke is exhaled

from the chimneys of the thousands of houses and manufactories here

accumulated together, that the sulphurous acid poisons the plants, and the

absence of light is fatal. Under such circumstances, horticulture seems

I Ifutile ; and yet, when say that, despite these difficulties, have now, in
the middle of January, lilacs, azaleas, an oncidium, and an epidendrum, in
full bloom, it must be acknowledged that even here plants may be grown
not altogether in vain, although in less perfection than in the horticultural

gardens surrounding London.

As far as appertains to the foul sulphurous acid and smoke, Ward has

taught us that by simply covering the plants with a glass shade, they may

Ibe effectually grown. In my dining-room have had two of these cases
Ifor nine years ; and the plants which first purchased from Loddige's are
Istill alive. In fact, the luxuriance of their growth is so great, that am
periodically compelled to remove large quantities of the plants. Besides
I Iferns, attempt the growth of a few flowering plants.  commence with
Icrocuses ; go on with hyacinths, and an occasional tulip or narcissus.
Later in the year the common cereus is generally covered with flowers,

affording a gorgeous display. However, this plant generally blooms itself
58       MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                [CHAP. VI.

to death. In July, my Hoya carnosa, or wax-plant, gives rise to a dozen

Ior a dozen and a half of fine flowers ; and am now venturing to try the
Icharming Stephanotis floribunda. During the fall of the year obtain a

fine display of Achomenes, and my ferns and Lycopodiums form an elegant

I Igreen covering all the year.*
      Now, from observation and experiment,
                                                  think can communicate

Ia great secret as to the plants which will do well in a London atmosphere ;

for find that the tropical plants, as a general rule, flourish nearly as
well as in the country. We read that the lights of tropical countries are
apt to be yellow, like the dismal yellow lights of London. Palms, bananas,
and many plants of this description will thrive.
    Some orchids, although they do not like the sun, require much light,

and they do not thrive, though others may be grown satisfactorily.

    I have lately constructed a portable hot-house which can be heated
Iby a candle, oil, or coal-gas. The one which have is like a "Ward's case,
but has a compartment to hold water at the bottom, through which is
inserted a copper tube, to carry the heated air and warm the water.

I hope to be enabled, by this contrivance, to obtain the more beautiful
Iorchids and tropical plants in ordinary dwelling-rooms ; and question,
Iif can fully succeed, whether the largest conservatory in the most

extensive orchideous house, when cultivated by the hired gardener, can
give half as much pleasure as this little portable hot-house.

     My father also, assisted only by a lad, constructed a green-

house at the bottom of a narrow strip of ground at the back
of his residence in Finsbury Circus. This house he heated by
pipes, and in it he grew many varieties of tropical plants. The

sugar-cane here throve. Besides, he had a tank in it with
hot -house water-plants, and which also" contained gold-fish.

These gold-fish knew their master, and it was most amusing to

see them come to the water's surface when he whistled, and take

the morsels of bread from his hand. In ' Instinct and Season '

he gives an interesting account of the breeding of gold-fish in
this tank in the hot-house at the bottom of his garden. He
afterwards converted the hot-house into a green-house, where
all the British ferns were to be found growing in the greatest
luxuriance. Amidst my father's numerous avocations he always
Ifound time to attend to his beloved green-house, and even to
                                                               paint
it whenever it was required. How well do remember the          times
of painting the green-house, what fun it was, and what trouble

yftaswbodmelverteaeh*"eneotaMSbaisnhejgaeaerenctebohtymiute' sayIonoretkfs<Gcaatirpaarbiscnasrludecscmeaes,tginrWnstoaeatgannrainsntdnte'daihcnrnaeeCgdtsRht.orf"rewaerfoaecrhnsnpttaiohec-atcnedlsea,ss',wsei'aneelgsprmJIeia.notnienhs1tusteh3ae1hwawr.ysieissnl1mpd2deouI7wcrnwcteieehhsmls,ltienah1mittgenh8t-ebah7neoto7Ftrbu,iisonsitwtnehsue,tbrahouervraryeiesnyatditnmhCFuooienitrnsidccesueewbsrhou, efrosnywuftcihthheAhCelifrwrldcateihautsdees-s*?'
CHAP. VI.]  VISIT TO PAKIS LOVE OF FISHING.  59

we children got into afterwards with the higher powers of the

nursery !

    On the llth of September, 1851, Mr. Smee gave the opening

lecture of the session at the Newbury Literary Institution, ' On
the Eesults of the Great Exhibition ;' and later on, the 8th of
November, he had the melancholy satisfaction of writing in the
'Illustrated London News' the memoir of his much-lamented
friend William Wyon, E.A., the chief engraver to the Mint,
whose numerous medals of high artistic worth have given the

name of Wyon a wide celebrity.
     On the 25th of November Mr. Smee delivered a lecture be-

fore the Bank of England Literary Association, on Instinct and

Eeason.

     During the early part of the summer of 1851 there was a
reunion of English savants at Paris, under the auspices of

Napoleon III., then President. This occasion was the first visit

of my father and mother to Paris, and it was the first holiday of
more than a day's duration that my father had since 1845. He

used, however, to take at times a day's holiday, and spend a few
hours at a favourite pastime fishing : for my father was a keen
fisherman, and as his love of and skill in angling were well

known among many, he had always abundant orders and invita-
tions to fish in some choice spot or other. Jack-fishing was a
favourite sport of his, and in his dining-room was a very noble
specimen of that ferocious fish. Its form is perfect; it weighed
twenty-two pounds, and was killed by a small hook. To hear
my father describe the landing of this fish, one could fancy one
was listening to a page of Izaak Walton. But my father did
not disdain other kinds of fishing. He would sit in a punt on
the river for hours, angling for any fish that would come to his

hook.

     In such times the scenery of the river, the singing of the

birds, afforded him ample enjoyment, and his overworked brain
found rest and solace in the charms of Nature. He knew the note

 of almost every bird, and loved to teach the different songs of

the songsters to his children. In trout-fishing he was an adept.
 During the summer months my grandfather used to take a house

 for himself and for us in the country, at such a distance from
 London that he and my father could daily attend their businesses
 in London, and thence return in the cool of the evening and enjoy
 the quiet solitude of a country life. Somehow or other our country
(JO          MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                 [CHAP. VI.

house was generally situated near a river, and so my father in the
cool summer evenings had frequent opportunities of exercising
his skill in fishing. At these times he was generally surrounded
by his family. My grandfather, too, frequently mingled in our
sports ; and when the latter caught a fish, how speedily did the
length of the fish increase until it grew to a wonderful size !
But in fishing, as in other things, my father generally won the
laurels: but what fun it was for the domestic circle each to

contend for our places as skilful fishermen, none can appreciate
but those who have tried their hand in the art ! The distinguished

chemist and investigator Professor Graham (former Master of the
Mint) had similar tastes to my father. How amusing it was
to spectators to hear them intermingling their conversations on
abstruse chemical and philosophical theories with their theories

on the art of fishing !

     On Sundays my father used with his family to be a regular

attendant at the morning service at St. Paul's Cathedral. In
various parts of this work it has been shown that one of the
great peculiarities of Alfred Smee's mind was that it belonged

to that class (Pneuma-Noemic) which is particularly capable
of appreciating spiritual qualities. He was ever labouring to

demonstrate that religion and reason were not discordant.

After my father had fulfilled the duties of attending a service

at a place of worship, he would then with his family betake

himself into the country, and there investigate Nature, and,

contemplating the Author of all things, would rejoice in the
works of the Almighty, and sing in his heart, Glory be to God
most High !

     Although the following anecdote is perhaps unconnected
with my present subject, yet it is so typical of the minds of

the two men Faraday and Alfred Smee, both electricians, and

both possessing a fervent and deep-rooted religion, though each
of his own   kind that it may not be out of
                                             place  to mention
it here. It  was on one Sunday morning, now  many    years ago,

as my father and myself were going to attend the 10 o'clock

morning service at St. Paul's Cathedral, that we met Faraday
close to the General Post Ofiice. He was hurrying to the San-
demanian Chapel, not far from St. Martin's-le-Grand, where he
was wont to preach. He stopped us, and after a few words of
conversation suddenly inquired where we were going to at that

early hour in the morning. "To St. Paul's," was the reply.
CHAP. VI.]               A BELIE VEE IN PEAYER.                                                61

"Is there anything particular going on there, then?" exclaimed

fFaatrhaedr,ay",   in a  thhuerrieodrdinmaarnynemr.orn"inNgothseinrvgice.p"artic"ulAahr,"!  "  said my
                  only                                                                           replied
Faraday, " we are then all three hound for the one great ohject."

The fervent manner in which he uttered the last few words made
Ia great impression upon us.
                               never hear the name of Faraday
Imentioned without seeing him as saw him then, his fine intel-

ligent face lit up with reverence and devotion.

Alfred Smee was a firm believer of the power of prayer, as we

find in the following lines :

      Some men learned in many sciences Lave called in question the effi-

cacy of prayer to alter the natural course of events. These men argue that,
because God governs the world by immutable laws, He heeds not prayer.
Experience shows that the direct course of the affairs of the universe
is not interrupted by prayer : the sun never reversed its course in con-
sequence of prayer ; nor did any person rise, contrary to gravity, from one
floor to another by praying. But a study of the human mind indicates
that in all human actions prayers have great effect in governing men's

actions, and leading to results. When a man prays with earnestness and
sincerity, it affects his whole mind, and all his actions are directed to
obtain the result for which he prays. When many men pray for one
object, the purpose of many persons is directed to one end, and all con-
tinue in heart and will to obtain the desired object.

     The influence of prayer on human actions, if tested by experience, will
be found to be immense. In producing resignation, and in confirming

action, its power is great, although its influence to control the laws of the

universe is void, and of no effect.*

    In 'Instinct andKeason' is the following illustration, showing

the power of prayer over the actions of man, during the great
trial of the year 1849 :

      During the prevalence of cholera in the infected districts, neither
writing, nor talking, nor preaching, could cause the inhabitants to rouse
themselves and prepare to endeavour to ward off death from their habita-

tions. At length, however, when Death had extensively accomplished his

work, men were afraid, and in some parishes they even sacrificed a week-
day's profit to pray that the malady might be stayed. To their prayers
and supplications they added all their endeavours to stop the pestilence :
they subscribed for the poor ; they provided attendance, remedies, and
visitations ; and immediately the effect was felt, and the disease was lessened.
The people saw the necessity of acting vigorously and decidedly according
to the laws of the attack of the malady, which were, in fact, the laws of
God; thus their prayers were instantaneously followed by more or less

beneficial results, f

See ' Mind of Man,' p. 128.    f See ' Instinct and Treason,' p. 226.
62  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. VI.

     The following prayer was written by himself when he was a

young man :

      Most gracious God, the beneficent Author of every good thing, we bless
Thee for all Thy mercies bestowed upon us. "We magnify Thee for our
creation, preservation, and existence. We truly thank Thee for Thy goodness
in granting us senses, intellect, and inclination to love and enjoy Thy noble
works. "We render Thee our sacrifice of praise for food, clothing, and
habitation. We worship Thee for warding off dangers and averting afflic-
tions. We glorify Thee for the peace and happiness conferred upon us.
We heartily adore Thee for averting death and promising us everlasting
life through our Saviour Jesus Christ; and finally, we acknowledge Thee
the only true God, Father Almighty, to whom all blessing, praise, love,
worship, and adoration are due from everlasting to everlasting.
CHAI-. VII. 1         BINOCULAK PERSPECTIVE.                            63

                      CHAPTEE VII.

                      1854 TO 1858.

Second edition of 'The Eye' Binocular Perspective Soiree at which ladies
     were first present Lecture on Education at London Institution Originator
     of educational lectures at the London Institution Alfred Smee originates and
     establishes a new form of printing the Bank of England notes Decimal
    coinage Lecture on Monogenesis of Physical Forces Visit to Paris Eclipse

     of the sun ; experiments at Blisworth Loses his father.

IN the beginning of 1854 Alfred Smee brought out another edition

of ' The Eye.' This edition contained a long account of his inves-

tigations on Binocular Perspective, which will be found in the

Appendix, No. XIX. It will be sufficient, therefore, to notice here

that Mr. Smee possessed several paintings executed purposely for
him in this Binocular Perspective system, by the late Mr. Price
of the Bank of England. Mr. Smee had also many photographs

taken for him by the moving camera. These photographs were

shown by my father to the late lamented Prince Consort, who

was considerably interested in the system, and compared these

delicately shaded photographs to the soft tones of Eembrandt.

In June of the same year these paintings and photographs, illus-

trating the system of Binocular Perspective, were shown at a

Ilarge soiree held at Mr. Smee's residence in Finsbury Circus.
   believe this was the first time that ladies were present at a

reunion hitherto only resorted to by distinguished members of

the sterner sex.

Mr. Smee further devoted much attention to the system of

education, which he not only considered to be in a deficient state,

but too frequently based on a wrong principle. He contended

that in youth the observation and registration of facts should

bGeercmaraenfyu,lly"   cultivated and practised, and upheld the system  in
                      where the youths are taken out in the country to
                                                                        be

shown the flowers and plants, the rocks and stones and soils, so
64                  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                           [CHAP. VII.

as to acquire rudimentary botanical knowledge, as well as a
knowledge of mineralogy and geology. Accurate ' Syndramic '

knowledge is a department of education which requires cultiva-

tion  in England."* Mr. Smee was ever                           from the first a consis-
tent  and strong opponent of the present                        system of " cramming,"

and of competitive examination, both of which he contended

materially injured the functions of the brain, and thereby les-

sened the mental faculties of man. In the Appendix, No. XX.,

is a long letter on education from Mr. Smee's pen addressed to

the Committee of Industrial Instruction in London. For his

Ifurther views on education must refer the reader to the chapter

on that subject in ' The Mind of Man.'

      So firmly was Alfred Smee's mind bent upon endeavouring to

improve the education of the youths of the city of London, that

through his means he induced his co-managers of the London

Institution to allow educational lectures to be given two after-

noons every week in the lecture-room, on astronomy, botany,

chemistry, geology, and zoology. They were delivered by

Ieminent professors. At first his brother managers tried to laugh
my father   out of  the idea.                       remember one   of them saying in my
presence,  " Smee,   whatever                    are you thinking
                                                                   of now ? Just as if a

parcel of children could understand or care about lectures." One

Iof the parcel of children that heard this remark was considerably

offended, remember, and it was a long time before the writer of

this entertained friendly feelings towards that gentleman.
     But my father pressed the matter, and the managers con-

sented to try the experiment. The first lecture of the first course

of educational lectures at the London Institution was delivered

by Alfred Smee on the afternoon of Saturday, October the 14th,

1854. The object of this lecture was to set forth the objects and

a"dnvaatnutaraglessysotef medoufcamtioennatal l  lectures, and     it was based on his
                                                 philosophy."      The lecture-table and

space around was covered with apparatus for experiments. The
children were delighted and learnt much ; the adults were

delighted, and also found that tney had much to learn. The
success of the various educational lectures was greater than
Ieven my father had anticipated. For myself,
                                                                   shall never
Icease to think of those years during which regularly attended
those lectures without grateful feelings for the units of know-

I Iledge which thereby acquired, and regret only that was not
more diligent in taking advantage of such golden opportunities.

           * See chapter v. on Education, in ' Mind of Man,' p. 34.
CHAP. VII.] A NEW MODE OF PRINTING BANK-NOTES.                       65

     The lecture is to be found in its place in the Appendix,

No. XXI.

For some time past a considerable part of Alfred Smee's time

had been devoted to arranging a new mode of printing the Bank of

England notes, which he at last succeeded in effecting with the

assistance of Mr. Hensman, the engineer to the Bank of England,

and Mr. Coe, the superintendent of the printing department to

that establishment, after enormous labour, and after having to

surmount innumerable difficulties. A full description of the
process will be found in the Appendix, No. XXII., in a paper ' On

the New Bank of England Note and the Substitution of Surface

Printing and Electrotypes for Copper-plate Printing,' which was

read before the Society of Arts on the 22nd of December, 1854.

Previously to the establishment of this new form of printing

the bank-notes by Alfred Smee, the Bank authorities had been

thrown into a state of alarm by discovering that some ingenious

persons had succeeded in splitting the old form of note so that

two notes were obtained in the place of one. The matter was

brought before Alfred Smee, and he soon found that, with a

little practice, it was by no means so difficult a process as at first

w" osuplldittainppge"aro. f   By the   new form of Bank  of England  note this
                             it could  not be effected.

There was some talk in 1856 about introducing into this

country the decimal coinage, and the two following letters will

show the interest Mr. Smee took in the subject.

              PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE DECIMAL COINAGE.

                        To the Editor of the Society of Arts' Journal.

      SIR, Permit me to occupy a, short space in the Journal to detail a
practical plan for introducing decimal coins into our monetary system.

      The difficulty which has to be encountered arises from our penny,
which, as the -^^ part of a pound, cannot be converted into a decimal
fraction ; and unless some system be adopted, by which our present coins
shall bear a definite relation to decimal coins, decimals must remain a

bugbear to the million, and their use be unpopular if not almost impossible

in practice.
      The thought which has occurred to my mind is, to construct our

decimal and present systems in definite relations, which shall be evident
to the mind through the medium of the senses, so that, on throwing
two masses of coins upon the table, they may be either sorted into the
decimal or ordinary systems, and one may be rendered exactly equal to

the other.
       The decimal coinage might consist of the Pound, the Florin, the

Decat, and the Mil.
                                                                                                   F
66                   MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.              [CHAP. VII.

      The penny, however, cannot possibly bear any relation to decimal
coinage, and we cannot afford to neglect the consideration of this coin, as
probably more than 2000 tons, and possibly as much as 6000 tons of copper,

are in circulation over the country.
      To meet this difficulty a set of small copper coins should be issued,

icalled the mite, half -mite, and quarter-mite, the mite bearing the value of

the of a mil. A penny would be equal to four mils and one mite, the
halfpenny to two mils and half a mite, and the farthing to one mil and a

quarter-mite.

     By the conversion of our present money into mites, the untaught could
always tangibly satisfy themselves of their mutual relations, and they
would find that, by dividing the number of mites by six, the result would

represent decimal coins.
      This mode of dealing with the question, which is applicable to weights

and measures, as well as money, has been forced upon my mind upon
psychological grounds, based upon the properties of matter on the one hand,

Iand on the powers of the mind on the other. In support of it, would

refer to the statement of Mr. Bidder, the great mental calculator, who tells
us that he satisfied himself of the properties of numbers through the
medium of the senses, as he made the multiplication table for himself, by
grouping sets of objects and counting them, thus demonstrating to his
Iown mind, that the multiplication table was an absolute fact of universal
application.                   remain, Sir,

                                       Your obedient servant,

7, FlNSBURY CIRCUS,                                      ALFRED SlUEE.
   June 10th, 1856.

RELATION BETWEEN DECIMAL COINS AND WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

    SIR, The serious objections which exist against the adaptation of
decimal coins to our currency again must be pleaded as a reason for
my addressing the Journal, to point out the practical manner by which
they may be probably introduced with least injury, and be rendered suffi-
    attractive for   the mass of people to desire their
    my last letter      recommended for practical use
Iciently                                                 adoption.       issue
                                                         the additional
     In
^of the -jL of a florin, and the -^ of a florin, with the superaddition, for
adjustment, of little coins of the value of the of the   of a florin, the
5^ and the -fa of the same, to be called respectively mites, half -mites, and
quarter-mites.

      Without unnecessarily occupying  space  in your Journal with abstract
                                              considered in my ' Sources of
Iviews on this question, which have    fully
IPhysical Science,'
                     have here to propose that the new coins be brought
into relation with our weights and measures, so that, tens of centuries

hence, upon the discovery  of  these coins, a near approximation    may be
obtained of the standards  of  value, length, weight, and capacity  used in

our times.

JJgajvaj ollooirfTnTdoahuopefofoadoicwsetc,acoaitmtnethrpe,doliirasa^hnm^deottfothehfaries,afoaoofnbltdoo,jerfttcinhhttheemeth^mi^egehtoadtoflefrctemthabpetuerse^mtbseuuenloskittfthotaewhflreseaoighnwhtaheivmieeg7ph0&ate0rsoiopgafferlacapaiinfniinscptio'm.oubrpneaedvrtiihatoyel f
CHAP. VII.]  LETTEK ON DECIMAL COINAGE.                               67

of 8'75, or, if copper, have its rim raised to compensate the excess of spe-
cific gravity, which is from 8'8 to 8'9.
     The mil might represent the ^ of the T ^ of a pound avoirdupois,

and be 5 inch diameter.
      The mite should weigh 10 grains, the half-mite 6 grains, and the

quarter-mite 1 grain, which would be useful weights for chemists and
other dealers in small quantities of matter, and thus coins would be

Ibrought into relation with apothecaries' and troy weights.

      As this letter is merely suggestive, do not think it necessary to enter
minutely into all the practical results which would be attained by the

above system. It is manifest, however, that it would give a basis of a
decimal division of value, weight, length, and bulk, and at the same time

afford a material relation between the decimal division and the other

modes of division now in use.

    If the principle be adopted, the nomenclature would have to be care-
fully reconsidered ; and it appears to me, whether we consider value,
breadth, surface, weight, or capacity, from five to ten of the decimal

divisions should have definite words assigned to them. At first we should

have both systems in operation at once, but by degrees, hereafter, all

Idivisions not found to be practically convenient might be gradually
withdrawn.                                remain, Sir,

                                          Tour obedient servant,

BANK OF ENGLAND,                                        ALFRED SMEE.

June 28th, 1856.

    A very interesting lecture was delivered by Mr. Smee on the
18th of February, 1857, at the London Institution, on the Mono-
genesis of Physical Forces. This lecture is a connecting link
between 'Electro-Metallurgy,' 'Sources of Physics,' 'Electro-
Biology,' and later ' The Mind of Man.' The lecture itself will

be found in the Appendix, No. XXIII.

    In the autumn of this year my brother fell ill, and an entire

change of air and scene was considered necessary for him. We

were taken to Paris. It was our first visit to the Continent.

During our stay there my father had the greatest possible delight
in taking my brother and myself to see all the sights of Paris :
he never wearied. One of our favourite amusements used to be

to go into the Tuileries Gardens and take part of our breakfast
roll and feed the wild pigeons who used to eat out of our hands,

and the sparrows who used to hover about in the air before us
and catch the morsels of bread we threw up to them.

     The following spring there was a total eclipse of the sun.

The astronomical savants nocked, on the 17th of March, 1858,

to Blisworth in Buckinghamshire, that being considered the best

spot to observe the phenomenon. We that is to say, my father
and mother, my brother and myself also betook ourselves

                                                                                               F2
68  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. VII.

thither, for my father had a great desire to try the effects of
his photometer.* We were located for the day in a stiff clay
ploughed field rendered extra stiff and disagreeable for quick
locomotion by some continued rains previously. There was a
hut hard by at which the savants and the ladies of their party
retired to warm themselves and refresh the inner man, when

their presence was not required for observing the great natural

phenomenon. There were some amusing accounts of these savants
and of the eclipse sight-seers in some of the journals of the time,
especially in the local papers.

    It came on to rain, and at the end of the day we all left that

ploughed clay field, thankful that we could get out of it : yet most,
if not all, felt that they had thoroughly enjoyed themselves, and

had lived a day to be remembered always with delight. The
results of my father's experiments with his photometer were
published in the ' Times,' the ' Morning Chronicle,' and some other
papers. For his letter to the ' Morning Chronicle,' with the

drawing and description of the photometer, see the Appendix,

No. XXIV.
    A brilliant comet followed this total eclipse of the sun, and

later, in the middle of November, my grandfather died, just nine
years and one day after the death of his wife. As 1849, so

did 1858 both eventful years in physical phenomena close
in sorrow to Alfred Smee.

    * See p. 39.
CHAP. VIII.]              BOOK ON DEBILITY.                               69

                          CHAPTEE VIII.

                          1859 TO 1863.

Sixth book, on 'Debility and Defective Nutrition' Switzerland Making of
     garden at Wallington Hot-water pipes Croydon Local Board Injunctions
     against Pre-existing sewage Spoliation of Finsbury Circus Trees on the
    Embankment Comet, July 1st, 1861 Pisciculture Anonymous pamphlet,
     entitled ' Reasons for not hanging Garrotters and Burglars ' Oratorians
         Extortion and intimidation of the superior Law Courts.

THE oration of the Hunterian Society was delivered on the

9th of February, 1859, by Alfred Smee, one of the fellows of that

society. The subject chosen by him was ' Debility and Defective

Nutrition : their Causes, Consequences, and Treatment.' The

oration was published in a small volume consisting of about ninety

pages, which are divided into six chapters. In the first chapter

his views on the structure of man, and the proper nutrition

required for the use of the body, are detailed. In the second the

varieties and symptoms of debility are given. He shows that de-

bility is often mistaken for disease or incubation of disease, and

he dwells on capricious appetite, by which a person in affluence

may, amidst the greatest delicacies which a skilful cook can pre-

pare, yet not take sufficient food to sustain nature. He then

shows the various causes of debility. He also treats of excess in

drink, and shows how the frame of the drunkard is debilitated

              until he    isonprdeembailtituyr.ely"  cut off by one or     other of
                                                         the career of a  drunkard
               attendant
Ifthroughout,

the maladies
be watched, it is astonishing how soon he passes away, as if the

voice of Nature  exclaimed,  'Cut  it down;          why cumbers          it the
ground ? ' "

My father was always an extremely sober man, and had a

great horror of, and indeed disgust for, spirit-drinkers. He never

took spirits himself, and even within a few days of his death
70  MEMOIE OF ALFKED SMEE.  [CHAP. VIII.

would constantly refuse even small quantities of brandy. When-
ever he saw an inclination in any person to spirits, he would
warn them in the most solemn manner of the danger they were
thereby incurring. He considered spirits ought to be used only
as a medicine, and then only when ordered by the doctor.

   IIn speaking of Alfred Smee being a sober man, may here

add that he never took wine excepting at dinner, and sometimes
at his luncheon. He considered the taking of a glass of wine,
with or without a biscuit, as being most destructive to the

digestive organs.
     Opium-eating, smoking, and other causes for debility are also

examined in the above treatise. The fourth chapter is devoted
to the consequences of debility, the fifth to its treatment, and the
relation of debility to different periods is given in the sixth and

last chapter.

     There is an interesting appendix to this little work, in which
is given the chemical composition of various substances of food,
&c., as well as a table showing the solid constituents in one
gallon of water supplied to towns, which was compiled for him
by Professor Attfield, F.C.S., Chemist to the Pharmaceutical
Society. This little book has had a good sale a second edi-
tion was issued in 1862 and it is a serviceable little book for

families to possess, for much practical and useful information
concerning one's every-day life may be obtained from it.

     In August 1859, my father went with his wife and his two

children to Switzerland, and enjoyed for a month the grand and

sublime scenery which that country affords. A dreadful accident,

attended by loss of life, had occurred at Zermatt the day previous
to our arrival there, which occasioned some letters to the ' Times '

on the bad organization of the guides at that place. Among
these letters is an anonymous one on the 16th of September,

I1859, from the pen of Alfred Smee. Before leaving this sub-

ject will here merely add that, during this visit to Switzer-
land, my father amused himself by taking many observations
with his photometer, the description of which will be found in
his letter on the Eclipse of the Sun in 1858, No. XXIV. of the

Appendix.
     During this visit the natural flower-garden of the valley of

Zermatt was robbed of many of its choicest specimens, to be trans-
ferred to that garden near London which has now become of world-
wide repute.

     The trout-fishery of the Wandle was what first attracted
CHAP. VIII.] MAKING OF GAKDEN AT WALLINGTON.                                     71

my father's attention to Wallington. Already, in 1858, he had
rented that fishery, and a little later obtained a narrow strip
of land,                                                           At that time
what is   where    he  grew a    "fewwapseaas,   beans,  &c.       which it was
                   my   garden                  barren   field,
          now "

impossible to walk across without sinking above your knees in

water. A few willows divided the field almost midway, and along
the side of the road it was skirted by tall elms, and a little thicket

of trees in Beddington Park enclosed it on another side. This

field, this waste land, the soil of which was singularly devoid of

vegetative qualities, Alfred Smee converted into an experimental

garden where there is grown the largest collection of fruit-trees

Iand other species of plants of any private collection in Europe,

for the description of which must refer the reader to his great

work, ' My Garden.' The forming of this garden, and the experi-

ments he there carried on for the cultivation of various plants,

were ever the recreation of my father from his multifarious mental

labours and anxieties of   life.    The objects of this            garden are    seen
in my father's dedication     "                                    Ludum."
                                  In Lucem, Lucrum,                              The

dedication of a garden is new in England, yet in Italy it fre-

quently occurs, and it was from the latter country that my

father borrowed the idea. From the year 1859, most of the

Saturdays were spent in this garden, among his beloved plants,

and here he would throw off all cares, and show in a remarkable

way how his genius was not to be confined in one path. In the

memoir of him in the ' Gardeners' Chronicle,' * we read that this

garden

contains something of everything. Though the surface is flat, landscape

effects and artistic surprises are numerous. The visitor passes in a

moment from a bold bit of lake scenery to a tiny fern-clad ravine, through
which meanders a crystal stream, laving as it goes a host of lovely bog-
plants. A turn, and the visitor is in a rose-garden, or admiring a choice
collection of alpines. Now long shady walks invite attention; now the
treasures of the herbaceous border attract notice. Nor
                                  :                                              the more

                                           is                                    in places

                                                    it
                                                              it

                                                                         is j.s
utilitarian part of gardening omitted on the contrary,

somewhat too obtrusively prominent. Be this as may, the collection
of vegetables, and specially of fruit-trees, very remarkable. No mere
amateur's collection within our experience rivals this one in extent and
variety. As to the houses and garden structures, they are numerous and

efficient. They have no architectural pretensions indeed, one object of the
                                                ;

proprietor was to show how, at a comparatively very slight expense, men

of very moderate   means mighta enjoy the  Mplre.asSumreese'asnd"   luxuries of  haogurseeesn"-
house, a fernery,  a stove, or  vinery.                            poor man's

                   See Gardeners' Chronicle,' January 27th, 1877.'
72          MEMOIR OF ALFKED SMEE.                                [CHAP. VIII.

exactly  realize this ideal. They are sufficient to give profit, pleasure, nay,
luxury,  to the mere labourer. Of course it is not to be expected that the
keepin^   or the condition of the houses, or of the plants in them, would
satisfy a head-gardener on a ducal estate ; but from the point of view of the
            they are all that could be desired or expected, and relatively to
proprietor  we should not be surprised if the produce were larger, as the
the outlay
pleasure to the proprietor was certainly greater, than in establishments of
greater pretensions. Insects, fishes, birds, fossils, nothing came amiss to
the hospitable proprietor of this garden. How keen his interest, how
great his delight in these matters, is evidenced in his work, ' My Garden,'
reviewed in these pages at the time of publication.

     What happy days were those to us those which were bestowed
on the laying out of that garden ! From a narrow strip of land came
a little more under cultivation, then a little more, until the whole

Iplot of ground consisted of nearly eight acres of land and water.

Well shall ever remember how we looked forward to the Satur-

days, on which days my brother and myself had always a holiday,
and when we two with my father betook ourselves to Walling-

Iton, my mother joining us in the afternoon. Well shall ever

remember the excitement of the Friday evenings, fearing lest we

might not awake betimes on the morrow, and thereby miss getting

to the embryo garden by the dawn of day. And the planting of

trees, the forming of the bowers, the walks, the constructing of the

glass houses, the bridges and other works of the like kind, which

must necessarily interest children who had from their earliest

years imbibed a love of Nature ! for who could live with Alfred

Smee without becoming a votary to her shrine ? The entertain-

ments which my father and mother gave during the summer

months,     commencing on   the   1st of May,      the first day of trout-
fishing,    at " my garden  " at   Wallington,      will long be remem-

bered by the hundreds who not only enjoyed their hospitality,

but who were benefited by the botanical knowledge obtained

therein, whereby many had awakened in them a keener appre-
ciation of Nature's works. The ' Gardeners' Magazine ' for the

4th of July, 1868, contains an interesting description of one of

these Saturday reunions. Many friends have told us how from

year to year they have looked forward to spend some Saturdays
with Mr. Smee in his garden.

of   In  an anonymous  little pamphlet in which one of the members
         B's * amused  himself by portraying in verses some of the
    the

     * The  B's is a club composed of some of the leading chemists of the      day.
They call   themselves B's because the department                              in B
            the Great Exhibition of 1851.          for chemistry  was grouped
section at
CHAP. VIII.]       CEOYDON LOCAL BOARD.                          73

leading characters of his chemical brothers, my father is hit off

in these few witty lines :

           " Sinee, the vivacious, who, as chance may wish,
             Invents a battery, or hooks a fish,
             Famous in both exploits as well can be
             (An old inhabitant of Finsbury)
             The welkin rings with his ecstatic shout
             "When from the stream he lands the spotted trout ;
            Now wrapt in science, then a thought will strike
            His varied mind, and straight he trolls for pike ;
             Or, at that pleasant spot in Surrey, shares

          A market-gardener's spoils without his cares

             Grapes, nectarines, peaches, figs, bright apples, plums, and pears."

But my father was not long destined to enjoy his fishery and

his garden without molestation, for the Croydon Board of Health

carried all   the sewage   into the river  which     p"astsheed   through
Beddington                 garden, and as  he said,              effluvium
              Park to his

was noxious ; the fish died, and foul mud was deposited at the

bottom of the river." It became a question whether he should

abandon the fishery and the garden. Fortunately he determined

otherwise, and commenced instead an agitation, which, with

intervals, lasted  two years, to  stop the pollution of rivers.*
" Communications    were made to  the Privy Council ; a series of

bills in Chancery were filed nearly simultaneously by three

separate landowners ; and injunctions were obtained restraining

the Board of Health from polluting the stream. The Croydon

Board resisted the law till a committal was signed to commit the

members of the Board to prison." Indeed, the members of the

Croydon Local Board were very near being incarcerated on one

IChristmas Day ; and if remember rightly they have to thank my
Ifather that such a misfortune did not overtake them, though
Imust admit that thought at the time, and think so now, that

they would have richly deserved the punishment for the unfair

manner of their proceedings. Through them the ratepayers were
involved in great costs ; but in the end the law proved too strong

even for a Board of Health, and so my father was again permitted

to enjoy his garden in peace. The correspondence between the Local
Board of Health of Croydon and my father is curious and highly

instructive, especially to those interested in the manner in which

Local Boards of Health sometimes conduct their proceedings.

The cholera which devastated the East of London in 1866

resulted in many warm discussions on the quality of water

                   * See ' My Garden,' p. 32.
74            MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                 [CHAP. VIII.

supplied to the metropolis; for it may be remembered that the
cholera in that part of London was attributed to the drinking of
impure water. Into this question Mr. Smee entered with his

usual enthusiastic temperament, and spoke at various meetings on

the subject. Moreover, some of the daily newspapers contained
several letters from his pen. For his opinions on the subject see

the Appendix, No. XXV.

     During five years, from 1860 to 1865, we were greatly dis-

mayed at finding Finsbury Circus was threatened to be taken
away from us by a railway. Headed by Alfred Smee, the inha-
bitants determined to resist this encroachment. The fight com-

menced by resolutions passed by the inhabitants on the 12th of

December, 1860, who viewed

with surprise and dismay the proposed demolition of Fins"bury Circus,

which comprises by far the most beautiful open space in the city of London.
Whilst affording a choice spot for exercise and recreation, both to the poor
of the district and also to the higher class of residents in the City, it is

used by the professional and mercantile men compelled to live within the
precincts of the City, as one of the few places where houses available for
residence are left. This meeting pledges itself to use its utmost influence
to preserve it in its present state, and to oppose any attempts to encroach
upon it by railroads. That the directors of the Circus be requested to pre-
pare a memorial in accordance with the foregoing resolution, to be presented
to the Aldermen and Common Council, to her Majesty's Government, to the
members for the city of London, and to both Houses of Parliament.

     This was followed by the accompanying letter from Mr. Smee,
which appeared in the ' Times,' Christmas Day, 1860, as well as
in the ' City Press.' For this letter, in which all the beauties of

Finsbury Circus Gardens are highly coloured, he was greatly ban-
tered by his friends. Everybody read the letter ; and everybody

who knew my father and the Circus, smiled. In one of the
                                     ' Athenaeum ')
journals of   t"hePadraadyis(et,h"e  and this term   Finsbury Circus was  termed
Mr. Smee's                                           ever clung to him.
                                                                          But he

said he intended to highly colour the beauties of the garden, and

he certainly did so. It was this letter, followed by energetic
action, which has saved Finsbury Circus from being converted
into a huge, unsightly railway station.

         THE PROPOSED DEMOLITION OF FINSBTJRY CIRCUS.

    ISIR,     To the Editor of the City Press.

tion of your  otsrfpuaFscitentshwbaiutthrtyhteChiiirmscuplseo,trtteatrnh,ceetomocofasltlthpeiumsbuplibcojretacatttnewtnitlsilopneoxtctuoosfethttehheeprococipctoyuspeaod-f
demolition

London.
CHAP. VIII.]            FINSBUEY CIRCUS.                                   75

      As an open area it is of priceless value to the citizens, for all experience
shows that open spaces are of paramount consequence to secure the health
of the inhabitants of the City. The area of this open space is so arranged
that it forms a complete semicircle, with a south aspect on one side, which
is protected against all cold winds, and on which every ray from the sun
can in the cold spring months fall.
      At that period of the year hundreds of the young and tender, of the
old and infirm, of the sick and weak, resort to this delightful sheltered
spot to enjoy the air and genial breezes.

      The centre constitutes a circle planted with exquisite taste with the
choicest trees, and     forms a tout-ensemble which
part of the world.                                    might be admired in any
                        It challenges for beauty the   garden of any square in
London, and it is the admiration and astonishment of foreigners as an
affair of private enterprise, and not a creation of the State.

     A return made by the gardener states that it contains three trees 60
feet high, and 180 feet in the circle of the head ; 20 trees between 45 and

55 feet high ; 34 trees between 35 and 45 feet high ; 60 trees between 25

and 35 feet high; and 107 trees between 15 and 30 feet high; besides
upwards of 700 fine shrubs and several beautiful weeping trees, all of more
than half a century of growth. The effect of trees in the centre of towns

cannot be too much appreciated. They carry up large quantities of water
into the over-dried atmosphere, and this little forest of trees must play an

important and beneficial part to the neighbourhood.

     At the present time the City is too crowded, and contains by far too

few open spaces and trees. There are (it is true) two trees in the Bank of
England, and one in Cheapside, two or three smaller ones in St. Paul's-
churchyard, and a few others scattered about, but where are the trees
which we possess in Finsbury Circus ?

      Nevertheless, regardless of beauty, healthfulness, or of any considera-
tion but gain, a speculative terminus has been projected to utterly annihilate
Finsbury Circus, with its beautiful gardens and excellent residences ; but,
as such a garden .could never be formed in our time, it behoves all who

reside in the City to be up and stirring to avert a calamity which cannot

be remedied during the days the present generation may reasonably expect
to live. Half a century has passed away while these trees have made their
growth. Half a century would be required for a second Finsbury Circus,

even could a suitable space be found.

      As long as London stands professional men must live within its
precincts. Finsbury Circus is in one of the few spots adapted for their
purpose, and many of its residents are in dismay, asking each other where

they can find a suitable habitation. The Bank of England, the banking-

houses, the large mercantile firms, must have residents to protect the

wealth therein deposited, and where can the daily constitutional walk be so
      taken as in
well               Finsbury Circus   ?
      If a great   central railroad
                                     terminus  is to be made to bring persons

from everywhere and take them everywhere, let those who live in London
exact that by its construction an additional lung be created for the City,
Ithat disease may be lessened and the value of life increased.
                                                                am, &c.,

7, FINSBURY CIRCUS,                                   ALFRED SMEB,

                                           A Director of Finsbury Circus.

      Dec. 24th, 1860.
76               MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.       [CHAP. VIII.

    In 1869, the unfortunate Circus was threatened by no less
than three railways, as is shown by the following resolutions :

       That the inhabitants of Finsbury Circus regard with surprise and
regret, after the determination of the Legislature to protect the gardens
of the squares of the metropolis, that no less than three railroads, includ-
ing the Metropolitan, are projected, which involve the reckless spoliation
of the gardens of Finsbury Circus.

      That a committee of the House of Lords having carefully framed rules
for the guidance of railroad projectors in the formation of lines through-
out London, it is the opinion of this meeting that the wilful neglect of

these rules is not only disrespectful to the Legislature, but a wanton dis-
regard of private rights ; and that the repeated parliamentary notices
which year by year have harassed the inhabitants of Finsbury Circus,
inflict great and unnecessary injury upon them.

      That the inhabitants request the Committee of Management to oppose
the Metropolitan and other railway lines seeking to spoliate the garden,
and in conformity with the above views to present petitions to both Houses
of Parliament, the Board of Trade, the Board of "Works, and to petition
that the railroad projectors who seek parliamentary powers to construct
lines, in contravention of principles laid down by the Legislature, may be
made amenable for any injury inflicted upon individuals by loss of trade
and deterioration of property caused by their act.

     The fight between the inhabitants of Finsbury Circus and the

promoters of the railways waxed yearly more fierce. It was

proposed in 1864 that one of the railways should contribute 12
annually for the maintenance of the gardens. In consequence of
this paltry sum being offered, the following handbill was imme-
diately sent round to all interested in the matter.

                 FINSBURY CIRCUS SPOLIATION.

      The committee of the House of Commons yesterday declared the

preamble to the Metropolitan Extension Bill proven.

      They recommended clauses for the protection of the garden, and a
sum to be paid of 12 annually for its maintenance.

      The practical effect of this decision is to give to the Metropolitan
Railroad land worth many thousand pounds for the paltry pittance of

  12 a year, and to destroy the garden, which is so .attractive to the neigh-
bourhood.

      The City of London, who engaged to defend the garden, neglected to
call more than three witnesses ; but it is hoped that so great a violation of
private rights, and so great a public injury, may not receive the sanction
of the House of Lords.

July 6th, 1864.                               ALFRED SMEE.

     Various petitions against these railways were presented from
the owners, lessees, and occupiers of house property in Finsbury
CHAP. VIII.]     FINSBUKY CIKCUS GAEDENS.  77

Circus, from the Corporation of the London Institution, from the

Ophthalmic Hospital, from the inhabitants of the district who use
and frequent Finsbury Circus, &c. &c., to both Houses of Parlia-
ment. There were numerous deputations also against the rail-

ways to the Board of Trade to the First Commissioner of Office

of Works, &c. Voluminous, too, was the correspondence between

Imy father and the late Lord Derby, Sir "William Tite, Sir Joseph

Paxton, and many others, on the subject. But think the rail-

way promoters wished Alfred Smee had lived in any other part
of London than in Finsbury Circus.

The result of this fight was that the railways were all worsted

with the exception of the Metropolitan, which only carried the bill
by the insertion of a clause that it was only to tunnel underneath

the garden, and not to destroy any of the houses or the garden,

and was to pay 100 for the annual keeping up of the latter.

IHere again we find that my father's energetic character carried
all before him.  must here plead guilty, as having done my best

to fan the flame of opposition to the railways, for even those

who had no unfriendly spirit towards them were like chaff driven
before the wind, and found themselves opposing that which they
would otherwise have let go unheeded.

     That Mr. Smee did not cease to take an interest in Finsbury

Circus Gardens after the termination of this fight, is shown by
the following letter. He also greatly assisted and promoted the
holding of Horticultural Shows in the Gardens. We thus see

that even in small matters he was as enthusiastic and as energetic
as he was in more weighty matters. So far as he himself was

concerned, he was perfectly indifferent whether Finsbury Circus

was or was not converted into a railway station. Still, in so
crowded a place as the city of London, it must be a matter of

gratification to the* citizens that one open space is reserved for

them.

                                 FINSBURY CIRCUS GARDENS.

    IAccording to promise, have made an inspection of Finsbury Circus

Gardens.
      The contractors were willing to meet the views of the inhabitants,

inasmuch as they undertook to provide any reasonable quantity of earth
to improve the design of the parts of the garden injured by the railway
works ; and it was hoped that this London garden might in some manner
have partaken of the picturesque features of Paris gardens.

       However, the general curves and contour lines, which were exceedingly
well laid in the former garden, are now arranged in such an extraordinary
78  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. VIII.

manner as to be offensive to the eye, and from the tipper windows of the
houses present a comical appearance, as in its general effect the garden,
besides a general bad design, is divided into two unequal and unsymmetrical

portions.

     A rare opportunity for the improvement of the garden has been lost,

which is much to be regretted, as the error cannot now to any great extent

be rectified.
      The grass-plot is not level, which will be detrimental to the game of

croquet, for which lawns are used in many of the other London square-

gardens.
       The garden as a whole, excepting the trees and grass, which always

have an agreeable appearance, is little more than a dreary waste, which

has been arranged in effect, if not in intention, to require the minimum of

labour. Should the inhabitants think fit, the gardens may be kept up in
their present condition by a labourer employed on an average one or two

days a week, as there is really no occupation for a gardener. In bygone

years there used to be abundance of flowers, and the atmosphere of the
City is better now than it was at that time.

      As Finsbury Circus possesses a scientific institution, with its Professor

of Botany, there is no reason why the garden should not be rendered
instructive as well as ornamental, and there is now a good opportunity for
this to be done, as our accomplished Treasurer is well versed in botanical
knowledge. Such a plan will only require the vigilance of a competent
gardener, as, from the influence of many of the inhabitants, the plants
could be obtained gratuitously for an educational object, and the natural
families of plants might be illustrated by interesting growing plants.

      By raising the character of the garden, order and decorum can be
more rigidly maintained than it has been of late years.

     It was particularly desired that the playground should be so enclosed

by a sufficiently raised border that it should not be seen by the factory
boys who frequent the road, who are apt to throw stones : this has been
neglected. The interior of the playground has been lined by a wall of
loose brickbats, which is actually a source of danger to the children, as its

materials are well known to be liable to move and crush the limbs or bodies
of children, who will and now do climb to the top of it. This rough wall
should be immediately removed, to prevent destruction of limb or life, and
perhaps legal liability to the inhabitants.

      In the rough manner in which the swings, &c., are used by full-grown
men and women, some serious accident may, and in all probability will,

arise ; to prevent which the gardener ought to exercise a supervision at
those times when the playground is frequented by children, and be held
responsible for a proper use of the apparatus.

       The earth which has been selected for the flower-beds is perhaps the

very worst which could have been obtained from any source. It is the old

moor earth of the ancient Moorfields, and contains the leaves of moor

plants and the shells of water snails. At the present time it is utterly

unfit for horticultural purposes, and can only be made so by much
expense and skill.

       The few recently-planted trees, which are important for the general
effect, should at once be taken up and replanted in topspit fibrous soil, such
as has been used for the trees on the Thames Embankment.
CHAP. VIII.]             FINSBUKY CIKCUS GARDENS.                                          79

Where flowers and plants are to be grown, a similar soil should have
Ibeen employed as is now being used in the Temple Gardens ; and, to show

the importance of using this soil, may mention that about forty years
ago the circle of lime-trees in the Circus showed signs of decay, and some

actually perished. At that time every tree at much cost had its roots laid
                                      if it,
                                                          it

                                                                is
                                                                                       is
bare and topspit loam placed against  since which time the trees have

grown to their present size.
                             in my judgment bound to supply a reasonable
The contractor           is

quantity of topspit fibrous mould, and more especially as the inhabitants

have facilitated the operations of the railroad.

The gravel in the playground and elsewhere (if     finished) bad,
and the loose stones should have been removed by the gardener.

The new shrubs and trees have been planted in defiance of all hor-

ticultural principles. The kinds of trees appear to have been selected

without judgment, and many of them have been planted so deeply that

they can hardly be expected to live, even the earth had been suitable for

their growth.

The planting of all the evergreens at one spot looks singular, and the

whole of the newly-planted trees should be inspected by some person who

understands planting, and many should at once be replanted.

Many of the roots of the old trees have been covered so deeply with

earth that may be anticipated that the roots will perish and become the

nidus of fungi, which sooner or later will kill the trees. This effect occurs
is
    itwith different rapidity in varying circumstances, but there no doubt that
                                                  a
many will be killed by the depth to which they have been covered.is

     It a remarkable fact that no part of the restoration of the garden   a

exhibits the slightest gardening talent or merits approbation, whilst so

much which has been done necessitates severe condemnation, inasmuch as

grave errors might have been avoided by a minimum of knowledge and

attention.

     That my father was an advocate for having trees in town
   also seen from the following extracts from letter in which he
pleaded for row of trees to be planted along the whole line of
the Thames Embankment.
is is
                      a
      The effect of trees planted along the edge of the pavement (he writes)
   well seen in Paris, where not only on the Boulevards but along the line
of the Seine the trees are tended with the utmost care. Plane-trees
would probably be best adapted to the situation, as the noble plane in
Cheapside and in our squares shows how well they grow in London. Limes
might also succeed, as the two beautiful trees in the Bank of England
testify.

     He then goes on to show how in

no other city in Europe are there so few trees as in London, where they
are so much required. Should the Board of Works consent to adopt these

suggestions, now would be the time to begin to select the trees siiitable

for the situation, so that they may be planted in October or the beginning

of November, and become well rooted before next year.

My father was fond of late years of rising with the sun, and,
80              MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                     [CHAP. VIII.

when he could, of going to bed with the same orb. One summer's
evening (Sunday, June 30th, 1861), he was going upstairs to bed
about a quarter before nine o'clock, when on the staircase he
suddenly espied a comet in the heavens. This was too interesting
and too novel a spectacle, so, to the surprise of all of us, down he

came again into the drawing-room, sent for his telescope, and the
result was the following letter, which appeared in the ' Times ' the

next morning.

    SIR, It may interest your readers to hear that an enormous comet has
this moment appeared in the north, having been suddenly discovered by the

passage of a large cloud.

    Its nucleus is of great dimensions, much larger and brighter than a
star of the first dimensions ; and its tail, which extends many degrees in the

Iheavens, is of the same form, and will probably equal in extent the comet

which visited this country in 1858. At the moment write it is not so
bright as the comet of 1858 in its brightest periods, but it is only second

to that in relation to any comet which has appeared within my memory,
and therefore everyone should witness this object when it again becomes

visible this evening.

     At twenty minutes past 11 o'clock it is twelve degrees east of north, by

Ia magnetic needle, and about ten degrees above the horizon ; but these

measurements are only rough estimates, as have not accurate instruments

at my command.                             I remain, Sir,

7, FINSBTTRY CIRCUS,                       Tour obedient servant,

    Sunday Evening, half-past 11 o'clock.              ALFRED SMEE.

     Alfred Smee was the first to discover this comet in England.
The President of the Astronomical Society an old friend of my
father's was greatly surprised on his going to town on the
Monday morning to read in the ' Times ' the discovery of a new
comet, he having, like other astronomers, missed seeing the

phenomenon.
     Alfred Smee was the first to introduce the French system of

pisciculture into England. He introduced it into this country in
the beginning of 1860, and on the 24th of April of the same spring
he wrote the following letter to the ' Times :'

    SIE, The great interest which is now taken in pisciculture induces
me to call more particular attention to the French system devised by
IProfessor Coste of the College of France in Paris, and practised on a large
scale  at Huninguen.       learnt the system at Paris  in 1859, and brought
       once to England,    but even now it is not as   sufficiently known or
it at

appreciated as it deserves. The plan consists in placing the ova on a grid-
iron of glass, where they remain with a jet of water passing over them till
the young fish are hatched. Coste's system is absolutely perfect, and leaves
nothing to be desired, provided excess of light is excluded. Any number
CHAP. VIII.]         PISCICULTURE.                81

Iof fish may be hatched at a cost and trouble almost nominal, for do not
Ithink that lost 5 per cent, this year of good eggs subjected to the process.
Much however has still to be learnt with respect to the treatment of the
young fry, for it is still a debatable question whether we should place them
in small streams full of weeds and animalculse, their natural food, or cram
Ithem, as the French recommend, with the flesh of frogs or powdered bullock's

liver. adopt the former plan, but am not so confident as to its superiority
to consider it the sole good treatment of these delicate juveniles. The

great liberality and kindness of the French Government in gratuitously
aiding English pisciculturists is beyond all praise, but the time has surely
arrived when all English society might imitate the works of the French

IState and stock our rivers with salmon, trout, and grayling. The breeding

boxes which have had made in England far surpass in excellence those
sold in France, and had M. Counter's unqualified approbation on his
visit to England last summer. One of these may now be seen at the ' Field '

Ioffice in the Strand ; and until a piscicultural society on a large scale is

formed, shall be happy to hatch and distribute to the Thames any number
Iof thousands of salmon ova which our northern proprietors may send me.
                                                                 remain, Sir,
7, FINSBURY CIRCUS,  Your obedient servant,

April 24th.                         ALFRED SMEE.

     The first fish he hatched according to this system were young

salmon. In 1861 he sent salmon ova to Hampton to Mr. Ponder,
chairman of the Sub-committee on Pisciculture. My father was

continually being asked for information on this subject, not only
from various persons in this country, but also from America.
And he was constantly sending ova or young fish to stock different
rivers. His own fish-breeding house, which he conducted on a

large scale at his garden at Wallington, was highly interesting,

and during the early spring months many came there specially
to see it. For a fuller account of pisciculture, see ' My Garden,'

page 497.

     My father was not only a complete angler and lover of pisci-
culture, but was also during parts of his life fond of shooting.

From 1863 to 1866 he rented with a select party some pheasant-
shooting of considerable extent in Hertfordshire, where he used
to spend one day a week, and from which he always returned in

raptures with the beautiful woods and the country. In 1867 he

held with others some shooting at Tunbridge Wells, but this he
did not enjoy so much as his Hertfordshire shooting. He had,
besides, many pleasant days of sport at different times with friends
on their estates and at their shooting-boxes. After 1867, with
the exception of a few hours on the moors at Whitby, he shot

no more.
     Besides being a sportsman, he was very fond of yachting,
                                                                                                   a
82           MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                 [CHAP. VIII.

and would delight in a sail at the mouth of the Thames in his
son's yacht, the Snowfleck* Often on these yachting excursions
he would betake himself to his old and favourite pastime, fishing,
and obtained not a little experience in sea-fishing. At other times,
when not engaged in catching fish, he would station himself by
the helm, and would employ himself in, to use his own words,
" looking out for dangers." This, his family would jokingly tell
Ihim, was to him a source of great amusement. He did not, how-

ever, seem to appreciate such levity, and was, believe, thoroughly
convinced that he was thereby the means of preventing sundry
dire accidents, such as collisions with steamboats or sailing boats,

or being shipwrecked by running on sandbanks, wrecks, &c.
But his being on the look-out for accidents generally ended by
                                      small satisfaction of the crew.   After
his  going   to sleep, to the no      he had been yachting, fishing,   shoot-
all  these  " outings," whether

ing, or gardening, he returned home, his mind invigorated and

refreshed, and would work with redoubled energy.

     London was much alarmed in 1862 by its houses being

broken into in the dead of night by burglars, and by its sober-

minded and respectable citizens being garrotted in the streets.

Some of the sentimental part of the community held that burglars

and garrotters ought not to be severely dealt with ; whilst others,

again, viewed with horror the spreading of this pestilence to
society, by which it had become unsafe for persons to be out of

doors after sunset, or to sleep with safety of a night, and these

urged strong measures for the suppression of such crimes. Whilst

these two conflicting opinions were running high, the following

anonymous pamphlet appeared from Alfred Smee's pen. Shortly
                                      was widely circulated) Bill was passed
after its appearance
             '                        is
                                                            a
                         (it
                                                                                is
for the flogging of garrotters, and soon after the Bill was put

into force the citizens of London were left unmolested by these
ruffians. In The Mind of Man,' at page 63, the best manner

for dealing  with our criminal         classes given in the  chapter              on  the
government     of mankind. "          Our present system,"   he says,                   as
                                                                                  "

useless as   unphilosophical, as the professed thief goes to
     is

          it

                is

                                   a
prison to come out and repeat his career as before."
     It curious that this anonymous pamphlet on garrotters

was entirely thought out one Sunday, while one of our eminent

preachers was giving long sermon at Westminster Abbey. My
father was observed at the time to be seemingly listening with great

     * The yachting commenced in 1867, when friend     kindly lent  us his yacht
for the season. Afterwards my brother built himself    yacht.
                                      a
                                                    a
CHAP. VIII.]   PAMPHLET ON GARROTTERS.                                                                                        83

attention to the sermon. On being asked after the service by a

              fo?aft"htheeerxcrlecapliemlireegddy, mhe" insOhofrfi!etnhdelik; Aed"bbeitya,mvehrisysurwopeprilisln.e"iodn  "oLfiktehde
friend,one
                                                                                                                          to hear
Isermon,my
Iit verywell
Iyou say so, for have often heard you denounce similar sermons

to that which you heard to-day." My father, finding he was

thus driven into a corner, confessed he had not heard one word

of it. This still more perplexed his friend the clergyman,

Mr. Smee had
" Well," said
Ifor                                                                           to
Iit.
                appeared                                                        "    be paying marked attention               to
               my father,                                                               must tell you the truth.

have been mentally writing an anonymous pamphlet the whole
Itime
              has been preaching ; and so intent have been upon
Imy subject, that
Isermon." And he                                                                        heard                word         of
                  have                                                          not             a    single  result       of  the
               added,                                                                will send     you the                    my
                                                                               "

Iwork, providing have your promise not to divulge from whom

it came."

     The pamphlet was written out within twenty-four hours, and

Iit was published within a week. It was sent to the clergyman, who,

  believe, was never after thoroughly convinced that Mr. Smee ever

Ilistened to any sermon, however intent he might appear to be.

And am afraid that but too frequently he was correct in such

conjectures ; for as soon as the preacher ascended the pulpit, then

was that quiet time when he could think out his various projects.

The following is the aforesaid pamphlet.

PHILOSOPHICAL REASONS FOR NOT HANGING
             GARROTTERS AND BURGLARS.

      BY A MEMBER OF THE SOCIETY OP FRIENDS ! ! !

                                                                               Preface.

DEAR FRIENDS, Stirring times have come upon us, when it behoves

us all to be up and moving, or all our devices for centuries past will be

undone, and all the schemes which we have successfully promulgated for

comforting the assassin, the burglar, and the garrotter, will be swept away
at one fell swoop.

     It is by our care that a goodly race has arisen, which is not without

iedtiestphpreirrvoepdeearsoeifdn"fluothefen"cienthceeonnrtoisvooetcsieottfyo.     Persons are now nightly stopped, and        are
                                                                               all evil," or, by suffering bodily injury,     are
                                                                               personal vanity."
A panic has, however, all at once seized the people ; and unless the

Society of Friends wake up, and use all the instruments under their
control, as sure as Friends are meek and humble and wear broad-brimmed
hats, an Act of Parliament will be passed to hang every man caught com-

mitting an act of burglary, or garrotting.

                                                                                                             G2
84                      MEMOIR OF ALFEED SMEE.         [CHAP. VIII.

    To prevent this interference with the scheme of creation, which has
Iformed Quakers or good                                                write
                                                                      inven-
earnestly that thou mayest
                             people, and burglars or   evil people,
                             be primed with arguments  to resist the

tion of the enemy, and retain those whom worldly-minded men call felons,
to balance the order of creation.
    Remember, it is only by a strong pull, a long pull, and a pull altogether,
that it is possible, with the present morbid temper of the public, to
preserve to society the burglar and garrotter ; but with great exertions they
Imay be retained for the blessed operations of a second Elizabeth Fry.
                                                         remain,
                                   Thy affectionate Teacher,
MEETING HOUSE,                                                  AN ELBER.
           November 18th, 1862.

                                                    Arguments.

      1. The first great argument for not hanging burglars and garrotters
is the terrible example which would be set to others, as the capture and
execution of a few would have such an effect upon the remainder, that
there would be speedily none left, and at once an important section

of the community would disappear. In my young days a burglary or
highway robbery was never heard of, but it is only since the human

mind has been more enlightened, and the beautiful model of Thugs
has been exposed to view in the British Museum, that the taste for
burglary and garrotting has been developed; but to stop suddenly the
progression of the thinking mind, would be to fly in the face of
Providence, who has created both bad and good. So, we Friends and
thinking people must stop so terrible an exigence, and preserve the
garrotter and burglar to the world.

                             Police Argument.

    If2. we regard the consequences of the burglar and garrotter, we
find that the guardians of the peace, frightened out of all propriety,
have doubled the police force, and thus we see how beautifully evil produces
good, for winter is coming on, many honest men will have employment
in the  police, and   be kept by an over-fattened public simply to look after
them.                 clear that this additional force will cause the garrotter
         It is quite

and burglar to take sufficient exercise before they obtain their end.
And it may be likened to the wise dispensation in natural history, which
causes the tiger to prowl for a long time before it finds its victim, and
to seize it with more relish from the keen appetite it has obtained in its
pursuit.
      As long as burglars are not hung they do not care now very much
about the inconvenience of being caught ; and whilst they take all reason-

able care to overcome or escape the police, they constantly get away, and,
in fact, are so rarely taken, that their chase causes them to experience
the same pleasing excitement which the Indian feels in hunting the
tiger.

                             Fire-arms Argument.

      3. Lancashire is  now  weeping from lack of employment, owing to
the dearth of cotton,   but  Birmingham thrives by reason of the burglar
CHAP. VIII.]    PAMPHLET ON GAEROTTERS.     85

and garrotter. What a powerful evidence of design to fill the stomach

of the infant and mother is here to be traced to the presence of the
burglar and garrotter ! The public, strong in their own conceit, say they
will not be robbed, they will not have their houses invaded at night.
For resistance they are now arming themselves with guns, pistols, and

Iswords, to enter into combat with their opponents. As a Friend,

naturally make acquaintance with these people, and my acquaintances
tell me that " they go for plunder, not for bullets and bayonet wounds."
For this object they parade in twos and threes, and their system is to

half-kill their victim before he knows he   iinsttooaldthtaimsckeoewdtn.hatotOrsn"oeth? e"magnaunsesaannitdid-,
" Would he not like to poke a man's weapon
ment worthy of classical times. That man
pistol dodge would soon come to an end, for they would be shooting
the wrong man, and what a lark it would be to make one victim shoot

another, a circumstance which would frighten the public, and render the

garrotter safer than ever."
      Besides, said he, " our noble judges are so good that they never allow

the hair of a garrotter to be ruffled." He must be taken by the police, that

is, if they can catch him at all, as tenderly as a lover handles his sweet-

heart. Our considerate law administrators sometimes have men more

severely punished for resistance than they have the robber. Nobody can

doubt but the burglar simply desires to possess something the other man
has. Would it not be a proper Christian act to give at once what is desired,

when the possessor might dispense with fire-arms, and be spared the chance

of an attack ?

                                       Hope and Anxiety Argument.

      4. Untrained minds indulge continually in the lower feelings. How
grovelling was that picture at the International Exhibition of a young
mother with an infant in her arms drawing aside the blind to look after
the lost husband, the prop and support of the home. What an untrained
mind does the mother show to be anxious ! For the father is either

alive or dead : if he is alive, she ought to exhibit hope, not anxiety ; and
if he has been proved to have been garrotted and past all hope, then she
ought to exhibit resignation. To my female friends say I, Train thou thy

mind, and when thy husband is proved to be garrotted, then exert thy-
self and get another. What a blessed instrument in mind-training might
the burglar and garrotter become, and how great ought to be our exertions
to prevent their being hung !

                                           The Fog Argument.

      5. During the severe fogs of November persons are now fearful of leav-
ing their homes because fog gives to the garrotter an easy chance of carrying
out his plans. This is surely a mest unreasonable accusation against
garrotters, because, in this instance, they do a positive benefit by keeping
people out of the influence of a fog, which is known to be extremely bad
for their constitutions. Such, however, is the perverse character of the
human mind that they would use the liability of being maimed or killed by
robbers during the prevalence of a fog, as an argument for hanging them,
as a terror to other evil-doers. During great fogs in London gentlemen
are watched from their clubs, when there are scamps who think it great
86           MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                     [CHAP. VIII.

fun to seize suddenly their hats and bolt with them without fear of pursuit.
This fooling pastime and small robbery is checked by the garrotter, for
many who do not care for the mere chance of losing a hat, are kept at
home when they fear to lose their lives, and then their wives and children
know where they are.

             The Over-Population Argument.

      6. Nobody doubts that the   country has plenty of people to        take    any
place which 'may become vacant,    when its present occupants are       killed.
                                                                                   A
great fuss was made last year, because an M.P. was strangled in Pall Mall,
when returning from his parliamentary duties. What could it have
mattered if he had been so far garrotted as to have lost his life ? There
would be still too many in Parliament to transact its business properly,
and not only too many, but a hundred applicants for every vacant place.

What is true of a Member of Parliament is true of any other occupation ;

for there is not a clergyman in the country who would not delight to take

the office of a bishop, if one should unfortunately be garrotted, though, as
Friends, we must consider that bishops are altogether superfluous. Under

the present system there is not a person in the kingdom who may not be

destroyed by the burglar or garrotter ; and should one be so destroyed,

Ithere would be plenty delighted to take his place. Now, Friend, would
ask thee this question, Why should we hang a garrotter or burglar who
may, in pursuing his usual avocation, give delight to any person in this

over-populous country ?

                                          Timidity Argument.

      7. When a burglar enters a house at the dead of night, and kills the
inmates, such as was done at the celebrated Frimly murder, it is a vulgar
fashion for other people, neither killed nor attacked, to take on great fear.
In secluded houses the inmates remain sleepless all the livelong nights,
fearing each noise, and listening to every rustle of the leaves, and spending
their lives in terror and trembling. Other persons witnessing these results,
revile the burglar and wish him to be hanged, that their friends may enjoy
their homes in peace and comfort. Now, in th^se cases, as members of
the advanced thinking community to which we belong, we should like to
put the burden on the right shoulder, and, instead of punishing the burglar,

would severely reprimand the nervous sufferers, and command them to
sleep soundly, even when they are conscious that burglars have broken in
the front door.

                         Assurance Argument.

    8. Assurance Companies are frightened out of all propriety by gar-
rotters and                                 that
therefrom.   burglars, because    they say  that  lives  are lost, and   claims arise
                                  however,        there  would be no
              It is quite clear,                                        assurances if

there were no deaths ; and, surely, Accidental Death Assurance Companies
must derive business from the knowledge which the public possesses, that
no person can tell whether he will be attacked ou any given day, and
maimed. Nothing can more completely show that the complaints of the

Assurance Companies are quite groundless, and not to be entertained for
a moment, when the great social problem of petting great criminals is at

stake.
CHAP. VIII.]  PAMPHLET ON GAEROTTEKS.  87

                                        Injury Argument,

     If9. we believe the doctors, who are always dogmatical, we shall hear

that cases of personal violence leave traces for life. Dr. Forbes Winslow
may say that insanity is often traced to blows on the head inflicted years
before. The brain doctors tell us that epilepsy, apoplexy, and with females,
the most severe and terrible hysteria, are brought on by a shock to the brain.
We hear oculists declare that vision is often impaired. Aurists tell us that
persons are rendered deaf. Some persons are deprived of smell, others of
taste, and innumerable cases of stiff joints and lameness are produced by
personal violence arising from resistance to the demands of the garrotter
for his victim to give up his personal property, or to the burglar from

entering his house. It is, thereupon, argued that garrotters and burglars

are so savage and relentless in their course, that death by the gallows should
be their doom. Can anything be more foolish ? for a damaged man is a
patient for life, a certain annuity to the doctor. Under these circumstances,
medical men have no cause for grumbling ; but, on the contrary, ought
rather to rejoice that the garrotte and house-breaking have so deep a hold
upon our social system.

                                             The Expense Argument.

      10. Mean hardhearted citizens consider that, as they work for their
living, they have no right to keep hundreds in idleness and greater luxury
than their own workpeople. Nothing can be more futile than this argu-

ment, although it must be confessed that it is very hard to drive it out of
their heads, that it is not right to give a garrotter meat when the workmen

live on bread and cheese. He argues, naturally enough for a mere counting-
house man, that the criminal should not be better off than the honest work-
man. The more comprehensive mind will discover that the criminal is the
pet of pets of a certain section of the thinking community, and the honest
man may go to the wall.

                                               Outbreak Argument.

     11. All experience shows that it is no easy matter to keep a number of

burglars and garrotters, used to every kind of cruelty and violence, in due
subjection. With the greatest care caged murderers will do violence to
the gaoler. Used to every brutality, they stand very badly the slight re-
straint imposed upon them by a prison life. What can be greater proof of
the folly of catching them, when, by convicting them of a murder, you
induce them to commit two or three more ? As a matter of fact, wouldst
thou like a house-breaker or murderer to live in thy family ? and if thou
wouldst not like him in thy house, is it fair and equitable to expose the
warders to his influence ?

                                           The War Argument.

     12. In warfare how many brave men sacrifice themselves simply as a

matter of duty to their country, or a sense of manly feeling to protect their
wives and families. When in battle we see thousands of the good and just
fall in a single day, unthinking people inquire why should millions of
Englishmen be kept in terror by one or two score of worthless, degraded
reprobates. But the fact is that neither the garrotter nor biirglar is a brave
gg                   MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. VIII.

or just man. He is an arrant coward. It never entered his head to be

killed or even to be hurt, and he maims or kills his opponent as an act of
cowardice for his own protection. Under these circumstances the fate of
the brave man who is killed in war, and fears not his doom for the sake of
duty, is not to be compared with the cowardly miscreant who is fearful and
cruel. For this reason the entire population had better be kept in con-
tinual terror than that the garrotter or burglar shall receive the doom
which he never contemplated.

                     The Food Treatment.

     13. It is now  very difficult to catch  raegbuulartgeldar proisr oinms.prisIofnthaergearwroatstenr.o
                    obviated by properly
This might all be
restraint, and they could go where they liked, they would undoubtedly

come into prison of their own accord ; that is, if they had sufficient induce-

ment for so doing. Now, bread and water continuously is no inducement
for anybody; but a well-ordered prison with parks, pleasure-grounds,
winter- gardens, fish and game preserves, with a proper supply of such fare
as turkey and plum-pudding for Christmas, and of the various delicacies
at the earliest possible moment they respectively come into season, would
soften the garrotter's heart, and, instead of assaulting the police as they do
at present, they would freely admit their own guilt, save all the expenses
of prosecution, and come into gaol when they felt they had had enough of
their adventures. What a beautiful sight it would be to see troops of

garrotters and burglars coming to repent every morning of their wickedness

done in the night !

                                             The Bump Treatment.

      14. No member of the Society of Friends nor thinking individual can
doubt but that the cruelty of the burglar and garrotter is due to certain
bumps of the head which are too prominent. The first process in the
treatment would be effectually to gauge the head. Possibly an humble
petition numerously signed by Friends and Unitarians would secure for
that object the services of Dr. Carpenter, whom some people consider to be
as great in his physiology as sound in his religion. Under his instruction
gentle young ladies might be employed to manupress the cruelty bumps
and draw forth with an exhausting tube the benevolent ones. Who knows,
when the heads of garrotters are rubbed into models of benevolence and
kindness, how many cases of affection may spring up between the garrotter
and bump-represser, which would give to the young robber-changer a most
amiable partner for life ? The process is so efficacious that gorillas can, by
the manipulation of their bumps, be turned into perfect men. How many
gorillas have been so changed nobody can tell, unless it be the Bishop of
Oxford, who at the British Association appeared to have some special
knowledge of these creatures. What more powerful reason can be given
for stopping the stupid Legislature from hanging garrotters than the
possibility of their being rubbed into judges, bishops, or members of
Parliament ?

                                            African Project.

     15. In looking at the question of dealing with great criminals we must

not overlook the proposition to send burglars and garrotters to Sierra
CHAP. VIII.]  PAMPHLET ON GARROTTERS.                                       89

Leone, or West Coast of Africa, for the purpose of performing the labour
necessary for an experimental growth of cotton, sugar-cane, or other tropical
productions. As Friends we must not tolerate such a proposition, which
might cause criminals to live no longer than honest, virtuous men. Upon
the whole, the question may be safely left to competent statisticians, and
no doubt such an able man as Mr. Newmarch would settle the duration of
life to the thirty-ninth place of decimals, and would rather the globe itself
on which he lives should dissolve than allow a criminal to have no longer

a duration of life than an upright, honest working man.

              The Whipping Project.

16. Not a few persons are to be found who commend whipping for

brutalized criminals ; and when a citizen has been severely maimed by a
                                            of his
person of   this class, the evil passions  difficult  neighbours naturally  desire
to see the                                            to meet the argument   ; but
            criminal well flogged. It is
if whipping is allowed, the Friends' trust must be in the doctor, who

should receive orders to discontinue the process the moment the pulse

rises one beat, or any emotion can be detected. The arguments against

whipping are very awkward to be applied, as flogging has proved to be an

admirable remedy against attacks upon her Majesty, or in cases of wanton

destruction of works of art. Nevertheless, thou hadst better ask those who

recommend its application, how far they would like the cat-o'-nine-tails

themselves ; and if they would dislike it, why apply it to the garrotter ?

                                                      Conclusion.

      17. Those who read the arguments against hanging garrotters and
burglars must perceive that, although the reasons are strong, it will require
the greatest possible exertion to prevent the gallows from rearing again
its lofty head. London is nightly patrolled by garrotters ; England has
a nest of cruel, cowardly assassins, who terrify the peaceable and well-
disposed. Men and women have such an antipathy to robbery with
violence, that they instinctively desire to shoot their dastardly maimers,

or hand the man to a terrible justice. In this great emergency it behoves

all Quakers, and other thinking men, to bestir themselves vehemently, and
the more fear is exhibited by the public of being killed, robbed, or per-
manently maimed, the more will be our merit to protect the ill-doers.
When people are killed, or paralysed, or maimed by law-breakers, in the
eyes of mankind the robber is thought to be a great criminal ; and the

greater the criminal, the greater pet should we make of him. A vulgar

public will treat a felon, brutalized by every vice, and degraded by every

cruelty and passion, as they would a mad dog, or a venomous snake. A

thinking man, however, would supply him with every comfort, and give
him food, clothes, habitation, and luxuries, beyond the means of honest

Iworking men.
       Friend, there is one thing, in conclusion, that would have thee never
forget, and that is, when a burglar and garrotter is hung, he is never able

to rob or kill again, and others are deterred by his example. Remember,

when criminals cease, sentiment is done, and Quakerdom and cant must
fall.
90  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                          [CHAP. VIII.

    In July 1863, commenced the celebrated fight between

Alfred Smee and the Jesuits. My mother's brother had joined

one of their confraternities, and had during this month died,

leaving the whole of his property inherited from his father to the
Principal of the Brompton Oratorians. For many years before

my father had wished to have a passage of arms with the Jesuits,

and would have done so had not my mother been fearful lest they

should send her brother to some monastery on the Continent

where she could never see him again, and she ever indulged in

the hope that her brother might one day be rescued from the

Iclutches of the Oratorians. This hope, however, was not realized,

for he died in the forty-first year of his age ; though think that

had he recovered from his last illness he would have been induced

to leave the Oratorians, and live under the roof of his sister

and her husband, both of whom he had, previous to joining
the Komish Church, ever held in great affection. After my

uncle's death the fight commenced : there was a lengthy corre-

Ispondence in the press during the summer and latter part

of 1862, and the beginning of 1863, to which must refer the
reader. The will was contested, and it was not until it was

brought into court that any information could be obtained.

However, the case was lost : there was not sufficient legal

evidence which we were not surprised at. But it was as well

the will was put into court, for it thereby showed to the world

the manner in which the wills of the members of the Brompton

Oratory are made. It awakened against them a feeling of dis-

gust among those who love the liberty of Protestant England.

Already, long before his death, my uncle was a poor man :

the bulk of his property had gone. Where? My father also

contested the right of religious communities to have private and

secret burial-grounds.    Here, again,   the correspondence  "  was
lengthy, but the gist of  it is that my  father complained,     1st,

That the Oratory has a private and secret burial-ground, without

public access or boundary walls, which has no public register

of burials, and where the names on the tombstones are changed ;
2nd, That this private and secret burial-ground, and the means

of concealment you have in your houses, are used to obtain

money from converts under religious intimidation."

    During this summer a party wishing to see the grave were

refused, as they had no private order from the Oratorians with

them. This private and secret burial-ground is in the garden

attached to a house they have at Sydenham. Great interest was
CHAP. VIII.]  FIGHT WITH THE JESUITS.  91

felt in the Broinpton Oratorian case throughout the country. It

was referred to several times in the House of Commons.

    In the Appendix, No. XXVI., is the rejoinder to the manifesto
of Dr. Dalgairns, Principal of the Oratory, entitled ' The Private

and Secret Burial-Ground of the Oratory,' together with a corre-
spondence with Sir George Grey, and a petition to the House

of Commons.

     My father was always a consistent opponent of religious
houses such as monasteries and nunneries, and in 1871 he gave

evidence against them in the Committee Eoom of the House of

Commons.

     The pamphlet ' On the Practical Remedy for Extortion and
Intimidation practised by the aid of the Superior Law Courts '
was written by my father in 1863. This pamphlet had the
desired effect of drawing the attention of the Legislature to the
abus.es there alluded to. Such extortion can now be no longer
practised, for by an Act passed in 1867 it was provided that any
person against whom an action for malicious prosecution, illegal
arrest, illegal distress, assault, false imprisonment, libel, slander,
or other action of tort, may be brought, may make an affidavit
that the plaintiff has no visible means of paying the costs of
the defendant ; and thereupon a judge of the court in which the

action is brought is empowered to stay the proceedings, unless
full security for the defendant's costs is given. See Appendix,

No. XXVII.
92          MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                                     [CHAF. IX.

            CHAP TEE IX.

            1865 TO 1870.

Contests Rochester Alfred Smee a Freemason and an Oddfellow London
     Institution saved from becoming a clerks' school Aquarium at Paris
    Accident Sheet Professional life of Alfred Smee Illness Visit to Whitby
        Posting up storm telegrams at Whitby Contests Rochester a second
     ti me Speeches Visits Italy Anonymous writings on the Unseaworthiness
     of Ships, on Chancery Reform, &c.

AT the General Election of 1865, Alfred Smee contested

Rochester,  wanhdichthheereterbmroeudgh" tCofnosrewravardtivepolPitriocaglresvsie."ws    under a
new phase,                                                                             Although

enthusiastically received at that city, he was unsuccessful. He

Iwas surrounded by his family during the contest, and still

always look back to that general election as a very agreeable

phase of my existence. The year after he wrote two political
skits, the one termed ' The Puppet Parliament,' and the other

' The Final Reform Bill.' Neither of the pamphlets bore his name.

See the Appendix, Nos. XXVIII. and XXIX.
    In that entitled ' The Final Reform Bill,' he says :

      There are four great diseases before Parliament this year : 1. The
rinderpest, or death of cattle ; 2. The cholera pest, or death of mankind
both bodily diseases, to be treated after an exact study of Nature's works :
3. The nigger pest, white murder by blacks; 4. The Fenian pest the
annihilation of social order and religion both mental epidemics, to be
treated after an earnest study of God's moral laws.

      Who shall legislate upon these serious maladies ? Shall they who
have bought their parliamentary seats by money, and pandered to the
follies of their age P Or shall they who represent independent, thoughtful
voters, and who have studied Nature's works and followed moral laws ?

    In 1865 Mr. Smee was made a Freemason at Gundulph's

Lodge at Rochester, and he was about the same time also elected
a member of the Oddfellows in the same city. On the 22nd of
February, 1867, he was elected a member of Jerusalem Lodge, in
London, one of the oldest lodges. Although he took a warm interest
CHAP. IX.]                             A FREEMASON.                       93

in Freemasonry, yet he was too idle to learn the symbols, and never
attained the rank of Master. Many of his Freemason brethren

Ihad determined to make him at last a Master, and doubt not

that in course of time, had he lived, they would have cajoled him
into learning the requisites necessary to attain that office. He
always declared he never could learn by heart ; but as it has been

seen that his memory was so excellent that he was able to take

down on one occasion some important speeches two days after

they were delivered, and as he used always to take down the

lectures delivered at King's College verbatim on his return home
in the evening, it would seem that, had he so willed he could also
                                                               ;

                                                                   it,
have learnt by rote. However, he did not do so but whether he

could not, as he said, or would not, very doubtful. He had several
                        I
                                       is
decorations and orders in Freemasonry, and he was present at the
installation of His Eoyal Highness the Prince of Wales as Grand

Master at Albert Hall.                 mention this because was extremely
                                                                 it

                                                                      aI
difficult to obtain an invitation to that installation, and suppose

he was the only one present who had not ranked as Master.
He was extremely pleased at being present at that ceremony,
which interested him much, and thoroughly appreciated the kind-

ness of the donor of the invitation.

    In 1868 he was admitted, on the 7th of February, among the
first five hundred of the City Carlton Club, Conservative club in
                                                        a
the City. He was also admitted among the first hundred members
                                                          it it
of St. Stephen's Club. He had previously,                      should be added,

belonged to the Eeform Club, but had to leave on his contesting

Eochester. He had not joined the Eeform Club for political

motives, for until he contested Eochester in the Conservative

cause he had never previously taken leading interest in partya

questions, and, indeed, had not troubled himself to use his vote
at political elections. He had several friends at the Eeform

Club, and had other attractions in possessing good library,
and better still good cuisine, for Francatelli was at that time
            it                                                   a

                      a
                                    a
the chef.                              movement for clerks' school (the Citya

    In 1866 there was

of London College) to be associated with the London Institution.

By this project the London Institution was to keep the building

of the college in repair, the students of the college were to

have access to the educational lectures, the life shares of the

London Institution were to be given as prizes to the students,

and the students were to have access to the library, besides sharing

in other emoluments. It may seem surprising, but nevertheless
94        MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.   [CHAP. IX.

true, that one of the managers tried his utmost to bring about
this arrangement. Mr. Smee wrote to him as follows :

    IMY DEAE SIE, have read with very great care your proposal to
annihilate the London Institution.

    IIt does seem to me to be a most highly objectionable project, and one

which hope there will be but little chance of carrying out.

     It is a total change of purpose to convert a literary and scientific
institution into a mere boys' school, but one step better than that of a

charity school.                                                  cannot
                                                              fear that
    I IYou have fixed the meeting at a time when am afraid
I Ipossibly attend, next Wednesday, which extremely regret, as
I shall feel it my duty to oppose it with all my might.
    My doctrine would be to improve what we possess, not to radically

destroy.

     Mr. Smee went to the meeting, which was attended by the

proprietors and managers, and in a long speech denounced the
movement as being most pernicious to the London Institution.
When he finished his speech, the proprietors rose en masse, and
cheered and cheered him again and again. The scheme was
upset, my father victorious, and the London Institution saved.

     While my father and myself were on a short visit to
Paris in the autumn of 1866, we visited a splendidly fitted-up
aquarium, which had recently been established, and which,

before the Brighton Aquarium was made, was a master one

of its kind. This aquarium in Paris fired my father's ima-
gination, and forthwith he considered that it was a grievous

pity that an equally good if not a better one should not be

immediately established at the Zoological Gardens in London.

IAccordingly, the next morning, when came down to breakfast,
Ibefore 9 o'clock, found he had written off to the late much
Ilamented and distinguished naturalist, Dr. Gray, of the British

Museum, on the subject, and found afterwards the aforesaid
letter published in the ' Annals of Natural History,' 3rd series,
vol. xix.*

          THE " MONDE DE LA MEE."

    IMY DEAE SIE,  have just returned from a visit to the " Monde de
la Mer," a noble aquarium opened to the public at a charge of two francs
per head within the last week, on the Boulevard Montmartre. It is
arranged as a large grotto, with cement stalactites, and the light almost
entirely comes through the glass front of the aquarium. There are no less
than thirteen aquaria, with glass fronts, about 15 feet long and 4 feet deep ;

     * The Brighton Aquarium was not in existence when this letter was
written.
CHAP. IX.]           THE " MONDE DE LA HER."                                                 95

and there are glass facings to brick and cement tanks, 5 or 6 feet wide.
These thirteen are for salt water alone; but there are others for fresh
water, and two little ponds 10 or 12 feet across. The aquaria are lit by
gas-lights placed above, which light up in the most 'efficient manner the
interior, and show every fish most perfectly. There appears to be no

confervoid growth ; and doubtless the gas-light is unfavourable to such

vegetation, but gives an illumination more resembling the natural con-

dition in deep water. A gas-engine is employed to change the water,
which continually runs to a tank below, and is pumped back, the jet
Ibeing thrown with such force as to carry down a great quantity of air in

very minute division so much, in fact, that thought it was done by an
air-pump, until the
                     attendant obliged  me by  "aMlloownidneg           me    to  Mgoerb"ehiinndthethsee
scenes and inspect   the contrivance.    The                            de   la

tanks were truly wonderful : large fish a yard long, soles and skates of

ample proportions, with lobster, crayfish, and numerous species of fish of
brilliant colours from the Mediterranean. Hundreds of anemones made

a sort of flower-garden ; and the effect was so interesting and so beautiful
that it has to be seen to be believed and appreciated.

The aquarium at the Zoological Gardens, which formerly attracted so
much attention, was a mere baby to it, and gave no idea of the behaviour

Iof the great-grandfather fish which are here contained.

     It occurred to me, that if was a child and fell in love with this
beautiful exhibition, there must
children who would also like to    be hundreds and                tdhtihesotui"nsgMaunodinsshdeeodfde"glMraoowMnnde-eru.p""
Then why not get up a bigger "
                                  be introduced to
                                  Mer," and a more

at the Zoological Gardens ?

The place would be the bank sloping to the canal, looking towards

I Ithe north : for fish have a decided natural objection to be cooked by a

southern sun. And the moment arrive in England shall rush to the
IZoo to see if

Monde'd the
            p" eMrfoidnidouesdeAllabioMnerh"asofcoPpaireids. the  idea  and  out-Mer'd  and  out-

                             remain, my dear Sir,

HOTEL MEURICE, Paris,                   Yours faithfully,

                                                                             ALFRED SMEE.

Nov. 19th, 1866.

In 1866, it will be remembered, a great monetary panic occurred

in the city of London, when many families lost large fortunes,

and when, to add to the misfortune, the discount house of Overend

and Grurney stopped payment. To endeavour to stop the stagna-

tion which was occasioned by large      sums of                         ump o"nefoyr  which were
not lost, but not get-at-able, in fact  " locked                                      a consider-

able space of time, an ingenious remedy was suggested by Alfred
Smee, which will be found in the Appendix, No. XXX. This

panic was succeeded by hardships which had to be endured by

unfortunate shareholders of public companies in liquidation,

and which elicited some anonymous letters from Mr. Smee's
pen. These letters follow those on ' Locked-up Money,' in the

Appendix, No. XXXI.
96  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                          [CHAP. IX.

    In 1867, Mr. Smee brought out another form of Accident

Sheet somewhat similar to, though in a more complete form than,

the one he published in 1847.*
     Up to the present time very little notice has been taken of

my father's professional career, beyond his being a surgeon of

no mean repute, and of his being more especially eminent as

an oculist. That part of his work which has hitherto been

given was performed mostly in his leisure, and was chiefly
the intellectual pastime of his prolific brain, but the greater

part of his time was taken up by his medical profession, and

by various companies, to some of which he was medical officer,

whilst of others he was a director.

    It has already been mentioned that the office of Surgeon

to the Bank of England was specially created for him when
he was only twenty-two years old. He was also elected at

an early age, and almost immediately on entering his profession,

Surgeon to the Eoyal General Dispensary, in Aldersgate Street,

to the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital, and was besides

surgeon to several other important institutions. He was medical

officer to several Life Assurance Companies, amongst the more

important of which may be mentioned the Accident Company

and the Gresham, of both of which he was one of the founders.

But the latter company was materially assisted by my grand-

father, Mr. William Smee, Accountant-General of the Bank of

England, who was also one of the trustees of the Gresham,

in conjunction with the Chief Cashier of the Bank, Mr. Matthew

Marshall, and the banker Mr. Oldham. Without my grand-

father's assistance the Gresham would not have existed. As
it was, it was born in the dining-room of 7, Finsbury Circus,

during the autumn of 1847.

     One of the companies to which he belonged caused, for a
space of time stretching over several years, my father a great
deal of anxiety, and added many cares to his life. Fortunately

these anxieties came to a satisfactory termination. Through the
indomitable courage and high principle of Alfred Smee many

were saved from pressing cares and losses; but, unhappily,

the intense mental excitement and labour attendinga left an

                                                    it,

                                                                        a
indelible mark upon his bodily powers, and sowed the seed of the

disease which he succumbed to at the early age of fifty-eight.

         This Accident Sheet can be either obtained in the form of sheet or in
small book, at the printers', Messrs. Collingridge, Long Lane, or at the office of
the Accident Company, 37, Old Jewry, E.G., for the small sum of one penny.
CHAP. IX.]              STORM SIGNALS.                                    97

     From the huge packet of MS. papers, of printed speeches,I it,
various reports, written and spoken by Alfred Smee for the benefit

Iof sundry companies to which he belonged (which had the

curiosity to collect and preserve), it would seem that he must
have been the moving spirit in them, and in losing him they

must indeed have lost a friend and a strong supporter.

    In the summer of 1868 my father had a serious illness, which

at the time was supposed to be a severe form of colic, but which
would appear to have been rather the beginning of the disease
which proved fatal to him at the beginning of last year: for
from that moment he lost his stoutness, and became year by year
thinner and thinner. From that moment, too, he cannot be said

to have enjoyed robust health. Through the kind attention of
his old friend Dr. Jones, he rallied from this illness, and when

convalescent he went to Whitby, where he thoroughly enjoyed

himself, sometimes in fishing, sometimes on the moors, sometimes
amidst the rocks, searching for fossils embedded in the lias or

oolitic strata, and sometimes in the beautiful woods in the vicinity,

searching for ferns for his beloved garden at Wallington, which,

when absent from was never forgotten by him. At such times we

would return to Whitby with the carriage so filled with oak ferns,
beech ferns, and other sorts of ferns, that our heads only would
just be visible above the mass of lovely foliage, much to the
amusement of the good folks of that seaport, who thereupon
styled my father the "Professor of Ferns." Besides these in-
nocent amusements, which tended to restore his health, he took

steps to promote the interests of the fishermen of Whitby, as will

be seen from the following letter, which he wrote immediately
on his return to London, to the late Mr. Gassiot, F.K.S.

   MY DEAR SIR,         have been at Whitby during the last equinox, and

took great interest in the storm signals on that dangerous coast, and
   write the general result for you to lay before the committee for their
I

information.

   2. 1.  The barometer was of the highest importance to the fishermen.

Every morning they walked up the pier to examine it, and their decision

was most materially guided by its rising and falling.

          The storm signal seemed to be of secondary importance to the indi-
cation of the barometer, though of great use taken in conjunction with it,

and the reason for its being hoisted. Upon this matter have suggestion
                                                       I

                                                                       a

to make. found that whenever the drum was hoisted, every sailor knew
          I

the reason of its being hoisted from the Preventive Service men, and they

would tell me that there was a great storm raging in the Channel, a high

wind on the coast of Scotland, and one day that there was a storm so near

as Yarmouth.
98                      MEMOIR OF ALFEED SMEE.        [CHAP. IX.

    INow, recommend that the reasons for the hoisting of the drum be
Ialways posted up in writing, as am quite confident that these men are

thinking of the bearing of the question all day long, and gradually
they will use the drum in conjunction with the barometer, and obtain
for each place much closer results than can be obtained by any other

method.

    IPractically my recommendation is to give the fishermen facts for
them to apply.  think then great results will ensue, and they will be

able to bring the foretelling of the weather for a few hours to as near a

certainty as possible.

    It was resolved by the Meteorological Committee of the Koyal

Society that Mr. Scott be instructed to take steps to promote the
posting up of the weather telegrams at Whitby. The following
summer, on our second visit to Whitby, my father took much

interest in the working of the same.                  His address

    In 1868 there was another election at Rochester.

to the electors was issued from Whitby, where he was staying on

account of illness, and he was on that account obliged to postpone
appearing among his friends and supporters for several weeks.

He, however, wrote many addresses to them, and amused himself

with drawing up rules and regulations for the organization of the
Conservative party in that city ; and before he was quite recovered

from his indisposition he, against the advice of his medical adviser,
Dr. Jones, and of his friends, threw himself heart and soul into

the contest, quite regardless of his own health. He went to the

poll, but again met with unsuccess. That he had good grounds
for expecting success will be fully seen from the following letters
sent to his wife and others during the heat of the contest, and by

the speech he made at the complimentary dinner which was given
to him by his supporters in the city of Rochester on the 17th of
December, 1868. His family have heard since, from information
obtained from the Radical side, that Mr. Smee was so beloved at

Rochester, that had he but paid a select number at the rate of a
day's wages he would have been elected. But bribery he would
not allow to be resorted to. Not very long after this election a

great many men emigrated from Rochester. Their last act on
eSlemxacevleain.img e"CdH,haa"tdhwawemeshrfeooturuldrtnheendiorthsihhmiapvsaeswobaueser nmtoeombglibivgeeerdtfhortreoeRleocachvheeeesrRtseocrf,ho"ertshMteerry.
and emigrate." My father was not a little pleased when he heard
of this demonstration of affection and esteem for him.

      MY DEAR ELIZABETH, We have had a most extraordinary meeting at

IRochester; 20,000 people out, all the road lined. The moment arrived
CHAP. IX.]  ELECTION AT EC-CHESTER.                                      99

at the station, tremendous cheering, a great procession of torches, with red
fire, with a boy dressed in pink, typifying   Conservatism, with
ceding. We marched through the town,         all the people calling  oaubt,an"dThperree-
he is, he has come at last," till we got to the King's Head, where the
Icrowd was so great that policemen had to keep order, and the pressure so
tremendous that the windows were broken.      gave my speech, a pretty

I Iviolent one.
         told the people that they must do the work, as could not, and read
Imy parody on Longfellow. It is reported that Kinglake has resigned on
the strength of it, but that is improbable.   must see               on Monday,

and am to see Elliot to-morrow. Mary would have enjoyed the fun.
KING'S HEAD HOTEL, Rochester,

            October 29th, 1868.

MY DEAR ELIZABETH, Great meeting this evening "to protest
against recent attempts to stir up class feelings in the city." The whole

Imeeting called for Smee, and was sent for, and entered the room amidst
Ithe most uproarious cheering. got up on the platform, and shook Martin
warmly by the hand (with such a scene as you never saw), but after waiting
for two hours neither of us could be heard, so we agreed to leave the
Imeeting quietly, when the police rushed in and cleared the hall.
                                                                         was

enthusiastically cheered, and all is now quiet, the Blue magistrates being
furious. Promises pour in to me, and we have a good chance.

KING'S HEAD HOTEL, Rochester,

            November 13th, 1868, 10 o'clock.

      Overwhelming show  of hands in favour of Smee;    all going on
                         17th, 1868.
gloriously.
   ROCHESTER, November

     This telegram was sent to us after the nomination, and the
day before the poll.

    In a letter he wrote after the election he says :

    ISIR, have lately contested Rochester in the Conservative interest
I Iand although not successful, from special reasons appertaining to that

city, yet think that have found the key to obtain the enthusiastic
support of the masses for the Conservative cause from the following

principles :
      1. Conservatives desire a step by step progression from that which is

good to that which is better ; in fact Conservatism is a continual growth

and improvement.

      This doctrine always flashed in the people's minds, and when illustrated

by natural phenomena, always delighted and enchanted them.
      2. The interests of the working men have a natural affinity with those

of the gentry and aristocracy, and both should act together.
      This always stirred up marked enthusiasm.

      3. The Church belongs to the people, the clergy having ever de-
fended the people against oppression, and is the source of England's

Ifreedom.

      This carried conviction, but did not find it desirable to say too much

upon Church questions.

                                                                     H2
100                      MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                        [CHAP. IX.

        4.  The liberal  doctrines of Bright, Mill,  and  Co.  really amount   to  the
lowest      pay for the                              and  the  least quantity  of  the
                         largest amount of labour,
ltnahebecmoeusTsrhaaiarswineadwsy,atohsfaelnaisfdlemmoacfosolltmr sptthholoeeopteklaleeyrxegcpeitetsuirtnrsng,aemtdhfooeurthnetetnheeomtafmibemlasesossonefesa.ygt.haeinIstCtocnotshmeerpvlaeettmievlpeyloycceaarusrsreie.odf
     5. Labour -and capital equally suffer from disagreement, and members
                           their mediators.
of  Parliament should be                     given        the  power   to the people,
      6. The Conservative  Reform Bill has
but at present the people are not freemen, as their masters compel them
to vote as they please, to their own injury.
      This doctrine was generally met with           shouts    of the  names   of  the

Government contractors at Rochester, who command the electors, and
frequently with suggestions for the ballot.
      7. Yiolent political struggles are inimical to the interests             of the

people : hence Gladstone had done great injury by stirring up the Church

Iquestion.                      showed that the aristocracy, gentry, and

      By this line of argument
clergy constitute the Conservative party, with the working men, but that
the Liberal party were composed of the employers of labour and the small

shopkeepers.
      The Liberal party were furious at the enthusiasm produced by these

doctrines, and called an indignation meeting, but the multitude completely

foiled the attempt.

    IAt Rochester carried the clergy, the gently, and the working men
Iwith me, and have no doubt that we have the key to the future Conserva-

tive government of the country. A large majority of working men were

compelled to vote as their masters dictated.

     And again, at the complimentary dinner given to him at
Kochester on the 17th of December, 1868 :

    IIt is with a great deal of diffidence that rise to express the thanks
Iwhich feel for the honour you have done me this day in asking me to

come amongst you after the defeat we have experienced at the late election.

I IWe have unmistakably had a great defeat in Rochester, a defeat which we

did not expect. The moment entered the city received numerous promises
of support ; those promises came rolling in day by day till 10 o'clock each

night ; they amounted at last to 1024 on the day before the nomination.
After the nomination, at which, as you know, we gained the show of hands,

that same evening no more promises came in, but promises began to fall
off; withdrawal began to be made, which showed the city must be under
the power of certain persons in it (sensation) ; and on the next day these
1024 promises degenerated into 702 performances (shame). Accustomed as
I Iam to numbers, sat ticking off the votes at the Guildhall as they came
I I Iwcinor,motamenditatgeaesi,noo":nW"sTahewyllthdmaoent, 'ttwhhetyhreedowvnoa'ttsertsshoemcoevmtohetienrgsupwco?rmo"neg.uNpo?
Ithen came with                                                 sent word to my
                         s. d. upon it (sensation).
                                                               "ansAwesrlipcaomf ep.aper

                                                          understood at once the
meaning. Now there must be some very potent reason which prevented

I1024 promises from realizing more than 702 votes. In the first place
CHAP. IX.]  VISIT TO ITALY.                                          101

Ithink many good Conservatives were victims to despair.      found they

worshipped success, and the moment they saw we were not likely to be at
the head of the poll, they stayed at home and did not vote (shame).

In speaking before public meetings Mr. Smee varied not a

little. Generally his speeches were fluently delivered, and were

at times most brilliant ; at other times his speeches would fall

flat, and then he would search for the words to use. When he got

up, no one could predict whether he was in the humour and would

give one of his brilliant speeches, or whether it would be painful

to listen to him. Two sentences were, however sufficient for

those who knew him well to tell whether the speech would be a

success or not. His facts he would generally, not always, get

up beforehand, but the manner in which they were to be arranged

was always left till the time of speaking. But perhaps the

most brilliant and most effective of his speeches were those

which he took no trouble about, when he rose on the spur of the

Imoment and delivered them off-hand.                   accompanied my

    In the spring of 1870 my mother and

father to Italy, and there enjoyed all the beauties which that

classic land can yield. How much the charming scenery of the

Riviera delighted him, and Florence that lovely city where

            " Sculpture with her rainbow sister vies ! "

            " Girt by her theatre of hills, she reaps
              Her corn, and wine, and oil, and Plenty leaps
              To laughing Life with her redundant horn."

     From Florence we went to Naples, which city and its
neighbourhood afforded Mr. Smee, as may be supposed, fresh
novelties of intense interest. He was greatly surprised to find
the Ceterach fern thriving almost at the summit of Mount
Vesuvius, and the Maidenhair fern luxuriating in all its glory
in the ruined amphitheatre at Pozzuoli near Naples.

Some of the fronds (he writes) were eighteen or more inches in length,
and the earthen walls were covered with sheets of this lovely fern, stand-
Iing out at right angles from the wall, or hanging down from the roof.
I Imust confess that, when beheld this great and glorious sight, was
Imore impressed with it than with the thought that was present on a
Ispot where dramas of blood were enacted centuries before.
                                                                     speedily

collected a number of plants, to the no small disgust of the cicerone, who
could not do the amphitheatre at his usual gallop, and who shrugged his
shoulders at my utter want of taste in gathering useless weeds. Some of
these plants now gi'ow at my garden in the fern cave.
102            MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                            [CHAP. IX.

     My father, wherever he went, found something new or tempt-
ing for his garden. His portmanteau was but too frequently

converted into a flower-garden before he reached England again,

and which not a little surprised the Customs' officers, when they

inspected his luggage. Plants were the primary consideration,

clothes secondary, if they could claim any consideration at all.
At Pompeii he found more Maidenhair ferns growing on the
walls of that ruined town, to which he paid repeated visits. At

Rome he was much impressed with the grand buildings and ruins.

He went daily to St. Peter's, the Coliseum, and was much struck

with the noble proportions of the Pantheon. The pictures and

sculptures afforded him much pleasure, and it was during this

visit that he made those curious notes on Binocular Perspective

which are alluded to in the Appendix, No. XIX. My father

Igained much recreation and enjoyment, and would have re-
turned,       doubt not, a stronger man, had he not, unhappily,

been obliged by untoward circumstances to stop, and not only

doctor, but also help with my mother to nurse, severe cases of

illness. He was urgently required in London, and he could not

leave, and the worry and anxiety attending this delay greatly
marred the enjoyment of this visit, and prevented that benefit

to his health which his family had hoped to see. What

a keen interest he took in the new forms of vegetation he met
with in beautiful Italy, the following extracts from letters

to my brother, who was in England acting as his deputy, will

show :

      March 16th, 1870, Florence. To compai'e with Carshalton.         swelling
      Almonds now in flower; some peach-trees and pear-trees
their buds ; anemones in flower ; sloe-trees in full flower.

     IApril 6th, 1870, Florence.  forgot to tell you that swallows appeared
Iat Naples on March 28th, and saw them here on March 31st.

     April 12th, 1870. The country is really very beautiful with wild
tulips, wild flowers, and all the fruit-trees in flower, and the mountains
look lovely.
I I Ibe
  M. is still  very weak.      do not know how        am to get  home  ;  shall
so thankful    to write and  state that we are on  the move.

     IApril 23rd, 1870.  heard  the nightingales last night, April 22nd ;
Icompare with Carshalton, for      believe the birds distribute well over
Europe on the same day. Inquire at Carshalton, and make a note of it.

      April 24th, 1870. Nightingales in quantities.  I heard yesterday also
the cuckoo the first time.
CHAP. IX.]      ON UNSEAWORTHINESS OF SHIPS.                     103

April 25th, 1870. People must clearly know that illness is the cause
Iof my absence. Poor Carshalton has not seen ,1116 this spring.
                                                                 hope

everything is properly attended to.
Lilies are now in flower. The May is just coming into flower. Pear-
trees are beginning to go off. Plum-trees are mostly gone off. Peach-ti-ees
are generally off. The vines are beginning in warm situations to sprout
(not in the vineyards). The spotted orchis is in flower.

      April 25th, 1870. The swallows are building. The buttercups and
tulips, all over the fields, red and yellow, are in flower. The white mulberry
is just breaking. The first leaf of spring is coining over the poplars and

elms. The underwood has much leaf.

     Before Mr. Plimsoll, to whom great praise is due, had the

courage to bring forward his Merchant Shipping Bill to the

notice of Parliament, there had appeared numerous anonymous
letters in the ' Insurance Times,' besides some pamphlets circulated

elsewhere, in which was shown in a very strong light the un-

seaworthiness   of ships that were (according  to these writings)
                at the peril of men's lives."  These letters and
" sent to sea

pamphlets caused a good deal of excitement at the time among

persons interested, among owners of ships, underwriters, and

marine companies. Frequently half-a-dozen short pithy letters

would appear in the same paper on one day, followed up for some

weeks by others equally short and telling. Many of these letters

were from the pen of Alfred Smee. There was a great grievance,

he conceived, to be remedied only by strong measures. In many
of his anonymous writings he writes as if he were himself a

sufferer ; but that form, it will be speedily seen, was merely used

as a figure of speech, so as to bring more forcibly forward the

grievance which he was endeavouring by agitation to redress.

The following spring Mr. Plimsoll brought forward his Mer-

chant Shipping Act, which my father thought erred only by

being "too lenient;" and the remarks that gentleman uttered

Iin the House of       Commons on      the   unseaworthiness     of ships
sent   to sea   came,      have heard    my                   far within
the   mark : "   yet                          father say, "

                       the virtuous indignation with which Mr.

Plimsoll was assailed may still be remembered. But although
the Bill was lost that Session, the storm was fairly roused, and

the sailors were in a body with Plimsoll, and in 1876 the

Government deemed it expedient to pass an Act to stop unsea-
worthy ships being sent to sea. A selection from the various

anonymous letters from Alfred Smee's pen on the above subject

is placed in the Appendix, No. XXXII. It must be remem-

bered that these letters are not to be looked upon as specimens
104  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. IX.

of logic or of literature; they were purely intended for one
end, and that was to hring forward in a prominent way before

the public the above subject.
     Mr. Smee was throughout his life frequently writing various

papers or pamphlets to which he did not affix his name : amongst
the most important of these anonymous writings are those on
Chancery Eeform. Although the papers were not written
during the years treated of in this chapter, yet as this and the
preceding one contain most of the anonymous writings of Mr.
Smee, it may not be out of place to mention them here. These

papers were printed separately, and were from time to time

distributed by post among the leading members of the legal

profession, and more especially among the members of the

Chancery bar. The perusal of these papers will suffice to

show their extreme importance to the public. They are placed

in the Appendix, No. XXXIII.
CHAP. X.]   ' THE WIDOW AND THE RABBITS.'                                    105

                      CHAPTER X.

                      1870 TO 1875.

' The Widow and the Eabbits ' Letters to the ' Times ' ' My Garden,' seventh

book Impromptu lecture The marriage of his daughter Attends an

International Botanical Congress Letters to his daughter from abroad

Address at Kochester  Letter to the Council of the Eoyal College of

Surgeons, England.

IT would occupy too much space to insert all the anonymous
Iwritings of Alfred Smee, for they were voluminous.
                                                                             cannot,

however, refrain from giving a few extracts from one more

of his little works, to which he did not attach his name, more

especially as it forms a link to show his vivid imagination, his

unwearying energy, and how numerous and various were his
publications. This was written in the autumn of 1871, when he,

myself, and my mother went for a short trip to Scotland. We

were hospitably entertained for a while at a friend's house, after

which we travelled over the wildest and most beautiful parts of

Scotland :

            " So wondrous wild, the whole might seem
              The scenery of a fairy dream."

                                                  SCOTT'S Lady of the Lake.

     My father was an early riser, and was generally up before the
rest of the family. For two or three mornings before breakfast he
amused himself by writing ' The Widow and the Eabbits.' This

fairy legend by a Ferret, which is really a humorous skit, as the

following dedication shows, is very prettily illustrated.*

* Published by Messrs. Rixon and Arnold, 29, Poultry, London.
106                  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.    [CHAP. X.

                   THE WIDOW AND THE BABBITS.
To ELIZABETH MARY, WHO HAS VISITED MANY HAPPY VALLEYS AND

     OBSERVED THE ILL EFFECTS OF EXCESSIVE RABBIT PRESERVA-
     TION, THIS STORY is DEDICATED BY HER FATHER.

     The story opens thus :

     In the North of Scotland there is a very beautiful valley. A

foaming river runs through it, where abundance of trout disport them-
selves in the sun and rise to every little fly which settles upon the water.
When rain falls, the river swells and overflows its banks; but amidst
the roar of the water, the salmon rush up the torrent from the sea,
and thus a delicious food is afforded to the fishermen. These catch
them with an artificial fly, and not only supply the people of the district
with fish, but exchange them for other luxuries with the inhabitants of
Edinburgh and London, who have neither trout nor salmon in their rivers.
The whole valley was formerly filled with villages, the people of which
tended their flocks and herds, and cultivated their fields. The inhabitants

were good and kind to each other, and aimed at promoting the happiness
of all. As the land was good, and Providence was bountiful in bestowing
the fruits of the earth, everyone was thankful for the gifts he received,
and rejoiced in the lovely scenes which he daily saw, from the time the

sun rose in the morning till it gave forth its heat in mid-day, and set in
the west in the evening ; when the villagers, after they had uttered their
praises for the blessings already received, and had prayed for a con-
tinuance of their joys in the future, retired to rest.
      The valley is surrounded by high hills to the west, so that no man

has ever been able to pass. It has rugged hills to the north, which almost
constitute a wall, and to the south there are also hills, leaving only one

narrow   entrance    for foreigners  to  come  in, or for the inhabitants to  go  out.
         therefore,   always called   "        Happy and Secluded Yalley      of   the
It was,                                  The

North."

     About 1000 years ago, naore or less, for the learned have never been
able to decide the exact time ; some say it was in the year 770, others in

790 ; but the most reliable, from documents existing in the great library of
Kamskatka, consider that it was in the year 772, a foreigner named Lord

Gryndum came with numerous retainers, and took possession of this

happy valley, and built himself a great castle. The villagers, always
happy and living in peace with each other, were never accustomed to

resist ; and, in fact, they never had either an army or policeman to protect
them, and so the villagers suffered the foreign Laird to take possession of
their valley and charge them rents for their lands. Not contented with
this, he soon after took their hunting-grounds from them, where they were
wont to kill game, especially deer, white hares, and grouse for their winter's
use ; and the Laird liking himself to kill fish (as he had nothing else to do
but fish, shoot, and hunt) ordered his retainers to drive the villagers from
the river, and prevent them catching a single salmon, or even killing a
trout. He was not even satisfied then, and his aggressive disposition
caused him to bring some rabbits from England, which he forbade to be
killed under the pain of a severe fine, or even of imprisonment. The
CHAP. X.]        ' THE WIDOW AND THE RABBITS.'                                              107

better to carry out his wicked device, lie made interest with the ting, by
bribing the attendants with haunches of venison and with salmon, to
make him a magistrate, by which he had power to cruelly ill-treat his
tenants, and to punish the peasantry for the slightest offence.

      The rabbits multiplied exceedingly, and the whole valley became a
vast rabbit warren, from which the creatures sallied forth by armies at
night and devoured all the grass in the fields ; and when they had finished

the grass, they ate the turnips ; and when they had eaten the turnips, they
attacked the corn ; and when they could get neither grass nor corn, nor
turnips, they set to work and destroyed the young trees by eating the

bai-k and young shrubs.
      The poor people in vain encircled their garden plots with close

palings, for wire fencing was not invented at that time. The rabbits
either scrambled over them, or burrowed underneath. Sometimes it is
recorded that they actually ate their way through the wooden palings, and,
when under the pressure of hunger, they smelt the poor men's cabbages ;
they have been seen to jump over the fence, when, in a short time, the

vegetables were eaten and disappeared. It was particularly noticed that

they always took the choicest and sweetest vegetables in the garden.
What they did not eat they spoilt, so that nothing was left for use in

******the winter.
In ten short years the rabbits so changed the Happy Valley of the
North, that all  cothuentrpieospualsat"ioTnhewVeraellewyreotcf hMedis,erayndandit                  in
more southern                                                                       became  known
                                                                                   Woe."
     At this time there was a poor widow named Mary Suffermuch, whose
family had lived in the village more than five hundred years. She had lost
her husband by the fall of an ash-tree which overhung the road, and
which was blown down in a high wind, after the rabbits had undermined

the tree by cutting the roots with their sharp teeth, which are formed like

******chisels.
      But on the 10th of November, which in that year 780 fell on a Monday,
the poor widow looked at her prospects, and she found that the rabbits
had so far destroyed her crops that she had no turnips left for her cow, as

*****the interior of every one was eaten out, and merely the outside shell was

left. The ground was covered with snow, as winter had set in early that
year. She had only porridge for two days more. The barley had all been
sold, and the money expended for shoes for the children. The poor widow,
when she realized her position, was miserable indeed, and cried most bitterly.

                                                                                                *

     The widow then goes off to a relation for assistance in her

misery, but finds him as destitute as herself. On her way thither
she admires the beauty of the country. Dispirited and dis-

heartened with her fruitless errand (all this is most pathetically
told), she sets off to return home.

      To rest herself she sat down on a bench in a beautiful wood, where
the waters of the river ran alongside, roaring among the rocks and large
stones ; there, too, the bright mid-day sun shone xipon the white barks of
108               MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                   [CHAP. X.

the birch-trees, and on the deep-coloured branches of the ever green Scotch
pines. She cried very much when she thought of her past happiness and

present misery, till she was quite exhausted and fell sound asleep.
    A fairy here suddenly appears before her, coming " with a

rush of wind." After a long colloquy between the fairy and the

widow,

the lovely fairy, who was quite distressed at such grievous misery, gazed
with the tenderest compassion upon the face of the sorrow- stricken
            In a tone of       authority, the fairy    said,  with earnestness but
Iwidow.                         go, Mary ! Rabbits     shall  no more trouble thee !
             : " Homeward
sweetness                                              in   this valley." And then
This  day have full power over the rabbits             "
with  a clear, shrill, musical voice the fairy cried,      Change, bunnies, change."

irTnohcekth,seoaunendxdtrfeirnmomethedtriesdteeaandtcoe,sttrieellcenh,eosi"sngCheca"hnogCeehd,antgchhera,onucggheha,ngtchehe,ancwgheao,no"dgsea,n"fdrotimldlietrdhoecakwlaatsyot
murmuring was scarcely audible to the most delicate ear. In an instant
the snow was torn up like a whirlwind, and, with a rushing sound, the
fairy passed away in the cloud of snow the wind had raised

     On her way home the widow saw, to her surprise,

a large black cat rush out of a rabbit hole and prowl about, seeking
for food ; presently she saw many other cats, some            black, some  black and
white, but there was not a tabby amongst them.                 The words   " Change,

bunnies, change," came to her mind, and she perceived that the rabbits
had been changed, and that their tails had grown long, and their ears had
become short, and that it was perfectly clear the rabbits had been changed

into cats.

      As she slowly continued her journey homeward, she noticed the rooks

wheeling in circles to the south, and then fly away in the direction of the
next valley. After that, a long zigzag line appeared in the sky, which she
knew to be a flock of wild ducks. Later an immense pack of grouse,
screaming wildly, flew out of the valley towards the highest hill of the east.

Then the linnets and warbling tribes of small birds, which she could not

exactly distinguish, formed a great flock, and darted about like flies in the
air, and then flew out of sight. Even the owls, although it was only two
o'clock in the afternoon, were on the wing, screaming in B flat. The

herons, with their immense wings, flew away to distant places.

      The widow sat to rest herself on a large granite stone by the side of
the river, and she was surprised to see that the salmon were jumping over
the stones and swimming down to the sea as fast as they could. She then

plainly understood that all living creatures were leaving the valley for fear
of the number of black and black and white cats which were prowling

about.

torsT"heherqeuafionlltowasn,d  cunning description     of the " Babbit Protec-
                               and should be read      to be appreciated, but is

too long for these pages.

     A stone,  "  long since decayed, was placed over the grave, with the
                  To the Perpetual Memory of the thirty-four Babbit Pro-
inscription :
CHAP. X.]       ' THE WIDOW AND THE BABBITS.'        109

tectors, of the Valley of Misery." Two of the keepers ran down the road
to England, one of whom escaped across the sea in a trading vessel to
Holland, where he was heard of many years afterwards. Seven went to the
South, and were never heard of again ; but as they had to cross a river, it
was surmised they were all drowned, and that their bodies were carried out
to sea. Two quarrelled over a piece of cold venison ; and one had his leg
broken by a kick by his companion, and perished in the snow. His com-
panion was tried and executed at Edinburgh. One got into a deep snow-
drift directly he started, and perished; but the remaining nine were

sheltered by a compassionate old woman at the north of the village, and
returned after two weeks' time, and became good labourers, declaring they

never would be Rabbit Protectors again. In this way the whole forty-
seven were exactly accounted for. With regard to those who crossed the
river, it is stated by the great historian Findout, that several bodies were

washed ashore one November, at the paiish of Seaside, not seven miles
from the mouth of the river ; but Mr. Exact, in his popular account of the
district, points out that the year is not mentioned, or the number of

bodies stated, nor was the identity ever proved ; so whether they were the
bodies of the keepers, or of sailors from the wreck of some ship, can never

be discovered.

Thursday came, and the cats, from exposure to the intense frost of the

preceding night, were very hungry, and were prowling about in all direc-

tions for food. It was particularly mentioned that, although the birds

flew over the valley that day, none settled when they saw the terrible army
of cats ready to devour them.

     In the evening the Laird was in a state of wild passion at not having
his grouse for dinner, and went to bed half stupefied, after having drunk a
bottle of brandy. The cats, in the desperation of famine, attacked the

house by myriads, and tried to get in ; but the windows and doors were
securely bolted. As the Laird heard the shrieks and cries of the cats, he
          odwof iftyihroeu,friscgtoahmntedii?nn"ghcorisinedbaehdtea;b; lwe"hhbeonewfoorfediadhsiysuodubdeeden.ntteh"reWwFhhaeoniryaarlael ptpyheoeaur,dedoaonridns
shivered
a sheet
whence

                barred? Tell           quick." The Fairy,
                                      am the Fairy Dogood :
                sweetly replied,
were locked and the windows       me
                                  "
Iunmoved by his violent gestures,
I I Iam flesh and blood like you, but not so gross.
                                      dwell where like;

where all is peace; but generally at the mountain top, to overlook the

I Ivalley. Sometimes lie in the scarlet flower of a lichen; sometimes
I Inestle amidst the pollen of Linnseus' flower : when go abroad, flit on the
Iwings of a blue butterfly to survey the flowers, or soar in the air between
Ithe wings of a gnat to enjoy the evening breeze. practise gymnastics on

I Ithe delicate thread of a spider's web, and dance on the top of a thorn of

the gorse ; feed upon the odour of the sweet gale ; drink the invisible
water of the air, and eat the blue bloom which covers the fruit of the dew-

Iberry ; bathe in the particles of the mist as it rises over the mountain
I Itop, and swim in the dewdrops which hang on the flowers ; slide on
Ithe snow-flakes as they drift in the air, and skate on the hailstones as
I Ithey drop from the sky. When suspect wrong, leave the mountain top ;
Iand have dwelt in the key -hole of your bedroom to see what you have
I Ibeen about. When see injustice, ride itpon the whirlwind and gallop
Iin the flames. have come to visit you through a crack in a pane of glass
                       MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                         [CHAP. X.

in your bedroom window, which, although you can scarcely see, is quite
wide enough for me to pass through."
At these words, the Laird shook and shook again, as well he might,
Ilsaehnsosd,okcaontvdheerceovduelrhdyisnwfoaatlclsehiwodfeiththheethrheofrubosemed,ctlhohitesheFvsaie;iwryb. uctoInhnetinasuaeswdtetn:hte"orFiaahnairvvyeoinaceenvsewwrehthriecedh-
thy questions fully, and perhaps more fully than you expected; now
mine. Will                   cowmillp,"enhseatequitchkelyvcilrlaiegde,rs"   for the   damage the
                       you"                                                but spare
have caused?"                                                                         me, O Fairy
Ianswer

rabbits
                     "Will you promise never to keep Rabbit                Protectors again?"
ID" ogwooildl,.""                                                          fear ; " but, O dear
                   he wildly shrieked, more dead than alive with
                         cats from devouring    me." The Fairy with                   a voice
Fairy Dogood, keep the   " Don't call me dear,  but keep thy promise
like thunder exclaimed,                                                               ; for if

ever thou bi-eakest it, the proprietorship of the lands of                 the valley shall
never descend in the direct line in thy family ; and mark,
                                                                           if thou art ever
guilty of further extortions, the lands you have acquired by conquest will
be taken from you, and given back to the people from whom, in plain truth,
you have stolen them. Power has only been     g"ivecnantonomt ehbeylp      Queen Mab over
                                                                            you, and would
Irabbits, but not over cats," said the Fairy ;
Inot if could." And then in a flame which lit up for a minute the whole
valley, and was seen by many persons hundreds of miles around, the Fairy
                       through     the same crack  she had entered, saying with
instantly disappeared   " Keep     thy promise."
a voice like thunder,                              A great scientific man, Mr.

Factfinder, who carefully examined the pane of glass with a lens, is

reported to have been of opinion that the flames fused the two sides of the
crack which the fairy passed through, as he could not find any reflection
on the surfaces ; though he clearly perceived the direction of the cut by a
slight irregularity in the glass.
In the celebrated collection of Baron Oldfinder, a window was men-
tioned in the catalogue one pane of which showed signs of having been

cracked. A minute investigation showed a central part of the disturbance
of the substance of the glass, from which irregular curved lines radiated.
It is possible that this might have been the very pane of glass which Fairy
Dogood went through. It is impossible, however, to clear up the mystery,
as the heir of the seventh Baron Breakeverything Larky, when a boy, and
not knowing the priceless value of this antiquity, used it as a target to fire
at, and literally smashed it to atoms. He ever regretted the circumstance,

and used to say, in after-years, that any object which could throw light on
the important legend of the Widow and the Rabbits was of great interest

to the whole civilized world, and he deeply deplored that he had inad-
vertently destroyed this important link of the evidence.
After the flames, which occurred three minutes past midnight, and are
recorded in all good astronomical books of a subsequent period, the air
became very still and cold, in fact colder than ever has been known before
or since. How cold it was, never can be known, for no thermometer has

ever been made to register such extreme cold as prevailed that still night.
The cats, exhausted by hunger and fatigue, succumbed to the frost, and lay
dead in all directions. The next day, when the villagers looked out of the
windows, the white snow was literally strewn with dead cats; the black
cats were very distinctly visible on the white gi-ound, though the white ones
were not visible, as they could hardly be distinguished from the snow.
CHAP. X.]        'THE WIDOW AND THE RABBITS.'                                Ill

In the course of Thursday, the Laird, who was still afraid, and very ill
from the effects of the brandy which he had drunk and from the fright he
had received, sent his trusty forester, Mr. Treecarer, to the village, to say,
that he would compensate all those who had suffered injury from the
rabbits, and he begged them at once to make out their accounts that he
                  them. When the
might discharge  they cried : " Away  villagers heard   this,     their joy   was
unbounded, and                        with misery and  "wDoeo ;  now come    back
                                                                 not waste   your
happiness and joy." One old man, however, said,
time in merry-making too soon : we should not be wasteful, if we were rich ;

but now we are poor, we should waste nothing. Remember that a good

cat-skin is worth fourpence, so skin the cats and sell the skins." All the
villagers thought this good advice, and started off at once with a hurrah,
and up to Saturday night got as many skins as realized 2,500 exactly, at
fourpence each. Thus it is proved that 150,000 rabbits existed before
they were turned into cats ; and as the valley contained 15,000 acres, it is
proved that there were 10 rabbits to every acre of land. But this is not
quite exact, for rain set in on the Sunday, which spoilt the skins of many of
                                  the white
the black  cats, and   many of               eats had been passed  over,  as they
could not  be seen in  the white   snow. It  is possible that the  total  amount

of rabbits which lived in the valley were 15 per acre, or 225,000 in the whole.

After much consultation and consideration the villagers were compensated
by a return of five years' rents, which actuaries consider fair under the cir-

cumstances ; because the rabbits had been brought to the valley ten years

back. At first there were very few rabbits, and they did but little harm ;
gradually they increased, by a geometric progression, till the above enormous
quantity was bred. By accepting five years' rents as compensation, a fair
average was struck, and a very difficult discussion avoided. The lawyers
indeed wanted to go into fractions, because in some years the rabbits

multiplied more than in others, and hence the progression was not uniform.

One lawyer, Mr. Stirupstrif e, desired to file amicable Bills in Chancery as '
to the appropriation of the money ; but the villagers were too sensible by
far to listen to this proposition, although Mr. Barrister Helplawyer

strongly advised that course. All legal difficulties were surmounted : and

the lawyers were prevented from eating up the funds, which they very much
wanted to do, by each payment of the Laird being a free gift, subject to
the terms and conditions of the giver, which were equitable in each par-

ticular case where the money had to be divided amongst the children who

had lost their parents.

On Thursday the birds, seeing that the cats were dead, returned to

their own haunts ; and on Sunday a rapid thaw took place, which caused a

great flood, and on Monday morning the salmon returned by shoals to the

river ; and all was again prosperity and peace.
The villagers, out of the proceeds of the sale of the cats-skins, bought
the poor widow a new house, with a farm of thirty-five acres of arable and

grass land, and seven roods of wood. She also had ample compensation
for the damage done by the rabbits. The remainder of the money was
spent in building a new church which was badly wanted the round
arches of which exist to this day. Unfortunately the builder, who came
from a town called Cheatem, took the villagers in, or they would have

been able to construct a bridge over the river. To this day, 1,000 years
afterwards, the river has to be crossed by a ford, to the great peril of
112                      MEMOIR OF ALFEED SMEE.           [CHAP. X.

I I Ithe inhabitants;

should certainly
     and when            went to the ford, had attempted  to pass,
     hare been            drowned, showing how long the   effects of

roguery may be felt.     out honestly  his compensation  to the peasants and
      The Laird carried
his promises to the Fairy ; and was always happy and contented after-
wards. All the villagers ever since have protected his partridges, grouse,
and deer, and reserved to him      three  miles of river, containing five fine
salmon pools, for his own private   use.  He lived to the ripe old age of 91,
                                   to be  engraved, after his name, date of
and on his tombstone he ordered

birth, and age at death

                         BEWAEE OP RABBITS ! !

        The previous year the two following letters were published in
  the ' Times : '

       It was known all over London that the venerable church of St.

   Saviour's was this morning struck by lightning, when the majestic peal

 Iof thunder rolled throughout the metropolis at about half -past eight, and

  this afternoon examined the course of the electric force in its destruc-

   tive career.
         The church has a noble central tower, with four stone turrets, one at

  each angle, and each turret is surmounted with a large copper vane, over
  which is placed a copper ball. The south-east turret has been struck
  by lightning ; and as a result, the stones of which it was composed were
  thrown off in all directions, exactly as the bark of a tree is thrown off
  when that is struck by lightning. The force with which the stones com-

 posing the turret were scattered may be appreciated when it is stated that

  one stone was thrown at least fifty yards to the western extremity of the

 churchyard, where it broke two iron rails and then injured a house.

* Other stones were thrown on the roofs of the houses near London Bridge.
  Some were thrown on the roof of the church, breaking through to the
  pavement below, and all the surrounding houses bear more or less
  the marks of violence with which large stones were thrown from the
  turret at the top of the tower.
         An inmate of one of the almshouses below told me that what with
 the lightning, the roar of the thunder, the pelting rain, the falling
 stones, and the breaking in of the roofs, she really thought the end of the
  world had arrived. The copper ball at the top of the vane bore the marks
  of the lightning discharge. The turret itself being composed of stone,
  and therefore a bad conductor of electricity, offered a resistance to the
  transmission of the electric force, and was consequently disintegrated
  and its component parts thrown outwards. The electric force then passed
  to the flat lead roof at the top of the tower, and was thence conveyed by a
 water-pipe to the lead-gutters on the roof of the southern aisle of the nave.
 From this roof it passed down two other water-pipes to the churchyard.
 On the most easterly of these pipes, or the nearest to the tower, the pipe
 showed a curious lateral discharge, forming a funnel-shaped hole, and on

 Ithe more westerly water-pipe a dilation existed, but without the aperture.

 From the examination which made, it is demonstrated that, had there

 been a conductor from the vane to the water-pipes, at a cost of two or
 three pounds, the present damage, which is roughly estimated at 500,
CHAP. X.] LETTERS TO THE ' TIMES ' AND ' STANDARD.'            113

would have been spared ; and the moral may be learnt, never to have two

Isurfaces of metal in so high and exposed a situation without a lightning-
conductor.  have lived in a house struck by lightning where the

lightning-conductors, from being badly constructed, were really lightning
attractors, but in this case the mischief is due entirely to the parsimony of
the parish authorities. Thunder and lightning is in no part of Europe,
not even excepting the high Alps, so terrifically grand as in the centre of
the city of London ; and when to this marvellous natural phenomenon is
superadded its power of destruction of the more beautiful works of man,

the interest attending its operation is materially increased.
July 26th, 1870.

      I IAnother magnificent display of the aurora borealis occurred last
night.      was driving from Carshalton to London when noticed that it

suddenly became very chilly, and that the sky exhibited much the same

appearance as when a beautiful aurora occurred at Oxford about five weeks

since. The remark had hardly been made when the first light appeared in
the south-east. Within two or three minutes a grand display of red
light appeared overhead, with 'streamers stretching down to the northern

horizon. A few minutes afterwards the light showed itself towards the

west, with streamers of light stretching to the western horizon. The

glorious scene was ever changing, when a vast mass of red light appeared
in the north-east. This resembled the light of a large London fire, and

was in the greatest perfection whilst we were on Clapham Common, about

a quarter to 6 o'clock. It continued, however, till we arrived in London,

and ceased about 7 o'clock. These great displays of northern lights so
early in the season are unprecedented in my recollection.

      Oct. 26th, 1870.

     On January 24th, 1872, a violent gale passed over the
metropolis, which occasioned a letter to the ' Standard ' on the
25th, on barometric pressure, and which called for the invention
of cheap barometers for the use of our fishermen, so that they

might thereby be enabled to prognosticate a coming gale.

      The violent gale which passed last night over the metropolis was accom-

panied by corresponding changes in the barometer. Yesterday the barometer
Istood at 29'03, but in consequence of the violence of the gale which raged

this morning examined the barometer at half- past 4 and found that it had
faUen to 28'35, and that at 5 o'clock it had receded to 28*34. The flint
glass barometer of the London Institution, which is a duplicate of the
famous instrument made for the Royal Society, with a platinum ring in

Ithe tube, recorded at 6 A.M. 28'37 inches of pressure, and at 6 P.M. 28'87,
showing a rise of half an inch in twelve hours.  kept my mountain

aneroid barometer, specially constructed for me by Messrs. Home and
Thomthwaite, under observation the entire day. By 9 o'clock it had risen
to 28-6 ; by 10 to 28'65 ; by 11 to 287 ; at noon it stood at 28'74. Then a
storm of wind and rain ensued, when by 1 o'clock it had fallen to 28'73.
By 2 o'clock the mercury rose again to 28'76 ; by 3 o'clock to 28'84 ; by 4
to 28'86 ; by 5 to 28'87, when it remained stationary till half-past 9, when
it reached 28*9. At 11 o'clock P.M. it stood at 28'93, when the observations

                                                                        I
            MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                             [CHAP. X.

were discontinued, as the   mercury   had returned to nearly its former
position. The mercury in   the large  tube in the barometer of the Bank

of England was at noon in a state of visible  motion from the  rapidity of
the variation of the atmospheric pressure.                     to call the
                                              It is important
particular attention of our mariners to the occurrence of great gales, with
rapid changes in barometric pressure ; and he who can invent a cheap,
delicate, and practical instrument for the use of our fishermen and seamen,
to enable them to prognosticate a coming storm, will be the greatest
philanthropist of the age, by tending to the protection of life from the
perils of the winds and waves.

    On July 25th, 1872, a letter was written to the ' Times ' on
the incident of Brixton Church having been struck by lightning

in the storm.

      The intensity and violence of the storms throughout Europe this

Isummer naturally attract general attention. On Thursday, July 1.1, so

frequent were the electrical discharges that counted in one hour 394
flashes of lightning. The storm over London on Tuesday was severe, but
singularly enough at Carshalton, although the roars of the peals of thunder
came from every side, and the repeated flashes of lightning were dazzling
and terrific, scarcely a drop of rain fell. Between Carshalton and London
the full force of the storm was experienced, and the steeple of Brixton
IChurch was struck by lightning.
                                      was curious to examine the injury,
Iand to trace the course of the electric force.
                                                 found the steeple was

built of stone, and had a stone ornament at the summit, with a stone
cross. All this was supported by stone columns, and there was no good

electric conductor between the stone cross and the earth. The electrical
discharge shivered the stone ornament, breaking it into fragments, which

were dispersed in all directions. Some fell upon the roof of the church,

breaking the slates and even the rafters, but many of the pieces of broken

stone were thrown to the churchyard beneath. In this particular instance

the electrical discharge did not appear to have passed between the clouds

and the earth by any water-pipe, gas-pipe, or other electric conductor

connected with the part of the steeple struck, but probably was carried by
Ithe down-pouring rain, which is itself an efficient conductor of electiicity.
  remember this steeple to have been struck by lightning about thirty years
ago, and this second injury indicates that even a stone steeple in an
exposed situation is not safe without an efficient metallic lightning-
conductor.

These letters on storms show the great interest which Mr.
Smee evinced in such phenomena. Indeed it was seldom that he

heard of a building or tree in the metropolis or its vicinity being
struck by lightning, but he would hasten to the scene to take

observations on the occurrence.
     ' My Garden ' was
                        the  next published work  from Alfred   Smee's
pen. It was written      in  every spare moment    as a solace  to his

mind. The work, now so well known, details the geology of the
CHAP. X.J           THE PUBLICATION OF 'MY GARDEN.'         115

district. The Celtic, Koman, and Anglo-Saxon periods of its

history are exemplified, as are also the mediaeval. The prin-

ciples of gardening are given, and the very tools that are neces-

sary for that operation fully described. The construction of glass

houses, with their ventilation, and the curious and novel modes

for heating them, are also explained. The arrangements for the

propagation of plants, the management of garden vegetables,

of the fruit garden, the general flower garden, the special flower

garden (comprising the roses, orchids, climbing plants, Alpine

flowers, ornamental grasses); weeds and wild plants; the algse,

mosses, lichens, liverworts, fungi ; the ferns, lycopods, &c., are"

all fully set forth. Forest trees and shrubs are duly noticed

(this chapter was written during the three weeks he was in Scot-
land, in the autumn of 1871, when he also wrote ' The Widow and

the Eabbits ') ; and the animal kingdom, from the animalcules
in the river Wandle and insects of the garden to the larger

animals. The birds and the fish and the reptiles hold an im-

portant part in the work. The climate and spring frosts are

recorded ; and the work ends with a calendar of plants in flower

under glass and out of doors, of fruit, of vegetables, of garden

operations, and of the natural history, during every week for the

year 1871. 'My Garden' is illustrated by 1300 engravings,

nearly all taken from nature ; it is not only a work of reference,

but it is fitted, from the beauty of its illustrations, for the

drawing-room table. This book has been compared to White's

' Natural History of Selborne.' To those who are lovers of

gardening this book is indeed a prize !*
     Not many months before ' My Garden ' was issued to the

public, Professor Huxley, who was giving a course of lectures

at the London Institution, fell suddenly ill. The audience were

already assembling in the theatre of the London Institution.

What was to be done ? Some one rushed off to our house, a

few doors  o"ffI,t  and fortunately    my   father came in  at that very
moment.              is a pity," he  said,  " that so many  should come,

Isome a long  distance,  and  should   go   "awwayas  disappointed. Suppose
   give them  a lecture  ?"           do !             the eager exclamation.
                              " Yes,

Then my father said he would give them a lecture, a gossip about

gardening. So, without any preparation, he walked into the

theatre, crowded with people who had come to hear Professor

Huxley on Biology, but who remained to hear what Mr. Smee

* ' My Garden ' is published by Messrs. Bell, York Street, Covent Garden.

                                                                  i2
MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                                           [CHAP. X.

had to say about gardening. Without any notes or premeditationA
he commenced. On another occasion, within a few months, my
father delivered another lecture on the same subject at an equallya
short notice, but this is the only one which has been preserved,
through the kindness of Mr. Shadbolt, a proprietor, who tookit,
shorthand notes of and which was afterwards printed in the
Journal of the London Institution, February 5th, 1872. (See               '
                                                                              a
Appendix, No. XXXIV.) My father's family are naturally proud

of this fresh demonstration of his genius.
        few weeks after the publication of My Garden,' he gave

in August 1872 fete in his garden, on the marriage of his
daughter. On this occasion he invited the children of the neigh-
bourhood to exhibit wild flowers, so as to "develope in them

intelligence, observation, emulation, and the sense of the beau-
tiful." He gave rewards in useful books to those who exhibited
the most beautiful collection of wild flowers, of which the species

were the most varied or which were arranged with the best

taste. The exhibition took place and was great success, and

contributed to the interest of the fete.

     My father was an active supporter of flower-shows being held
in the city of London. Of late years, flower-shows, or rather
exhibitions of window-plants grown within the City, have been

held in Finsbury Circus, and he gave prizes for wild flowers
at these little horticultural displays. He gave two prizes in
1875, three in 1876, and in 1877 he had intended to give no less
than six prizes for wild flowers, which were to be collected by
any resident in the city of London coming within the limits of

the society.

     The first prize will be for the best collection of wild flowers, correctly

named.

       2nd. Second best collection, correctly named.
      3rd. The best collection of wild flowers, unnamed.
       4th. Second best collection, unnamed.
      5th. The best collection of wild flowers tastefully arranged.
      6th. The second best tastefully arranged.
      The judges are empowered to withhold any prize in their opinion a
sufficient standard of excellence not attained.

                                                                                     ALFRED SMEE.
is

                          if

     These prizes were distributed last summer by my mother
according to the wishes of her husband. These shows have been
very successful, and they have already realized the hopes of the
most ardent of their supporters.
CHAP. X.]      LETTERS TO HIS DAUGHTER.                       117

     My father laid out our garden at Oxford and stocked it

with the choicest kinds of the fruits and outdoor plants which
were grown in his own garden, and he always looked upon the
former as a miniature Carshalton garden. After my marriage

rarely a day passed, if ever, without his writing to me

one, and sometimes two letters, in nearly all of which some
advice or information is given appertaining to the little garden
formed by his skill. These letters, perhaps more than anything
else, show the energy and extreme activity of his character, as
well as his love for Nature, which was with him a veritable

passion.

    I shall not come down till Thursday, and then will stop till Tuesday/

Go and hurry on the workmen to-day (Wednesday) to finish the green-

Ihouse, to get it painted inside, and to have the ends ready that may

plant on Saturday, to save Sunday. To be precise :
      Have the greenhouse painted twice inside and glazed (glazed first).

     Get the end glazed and fixed if not time to paint.

       Get the ventilators up.

    IMake B. get the vine borders ready.

        hope that all the vines will be growing by Saturday.

    In another letter he says :

      There is a cart-load of things waiting to come to you, and cart-load
after cart-load will follow. Drive them on. You would make a bad nigger
driver. You do not fluster them half enough.

Got home all right.

We tumbled into the work yesterday pretty well ; but there is a lot

to do.

ITell your husband he was right about the axis of the croquet lawn ; it
was out about 15 inches.  adjusted roughly, but it will require the most

Iminute adjustment at the finish.

       do not like the south part of the walk near the park. It is like a

hedge and looks vulgar.

      Give B. the enclosed drawing, and tell him to get out the earth as in

the enclosed drawing, beginning right down at the path, and carrying it
back somewhat in the enclosed form to the very verge of the croquet

ground, &c.

Whenever my father came down, he always found the work
Idone wrong.
               was only too glad his instructions were not
Iproperly carried out in his absence, for by that means got him
Idown oftener than otherwise should have done. My father
Itook great interest in our garden, and was always having
               it,
letters about                                    did not give that
                    I

                           it

                                            iIf
               and was well lectured

amount of attention to which his enthusiastic spirit wished.
118         MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                         [CHAP. X

     IAn immense hamper of plants will be sent from Carshalton, and
have made arrangements for Saxifrages, Sempervivums, and Sedums to be

sent, as well as a stock of bedding plants.

     IThe hampers had better be sent back to Carshalton.
        have ordered my largest Wistaria to be taken up and sent to cover

your verandah.

    I Ihave ordered some lavender and the various herbs to be sent.
Ithink that they had better be planted under the peach-trees near the road,

but perhaps they had better wait till come down.
     Drive on the men ! Get in the earth. Get me lots of stones, and
give B. the enclosed plan for him to finish the park side. You must
worry them three times a day at least, for you will gain a year by working
Ihard this month and getting in your crops.
         shall bring some seed-peas with me and other seeds to be planted at
once, and the rest will follow.

      Let me know every day what is done.        must contrive that you

    I Ihave made inquiries about some peat, for
Ihave a few American plants if can manage it.

     I have ordered your Azaleas and Camellias to be sent directly, also
Isome Alpine plants.  have also sent a hamper full of bulbs, BO neces-

sary to make your garden beautiful in spring. The Hyacinths and

Narcissi are to be planted in pots for the greenhouse; the Scillas on

the mound.

     Then follows a drawing how the bulbs should be arranged.

     We have just come back from Carshalton. The garden is most
lovely; all our Cacti are planted out. Many of the little ones are in
flower; most interesting. Our Cacti have only been watered once this

winter.
     I am quite afraid your man will seiiously damage yours, so plant them
Iall out forthwith, but label them first.
                                             should have gone to bed
Istraight, but did not like you to spoil your plants, &c.
     IThere is an anemone on the mound, with a white flower somewhere in
this position (here follows a drawing).      think you had better either
eradicate or curtail it to a very little bit. It is a most aggressive rascal.
Mine has eaten up nearly twenty species, and has almost driven me wild
     Whit Monday, 10.20.

     For some years previously he had been a member of the
Council of the Eoyal Horticultural Society; he was chairman
of the fruit committee, as well as a member of the scientific
committee, of the same society. Just before his death he was
elected vice-president of the scientific committee. He ever took
an active part in these committees, and was rarely absent from

them.

    In May 1874, an International Botanical Congress was held

at Florence, and Alfred Smee was sent there as representative of
CHAP. X.]    LETTERS FROM ABROAD.           119

the Eoyal Horticultural Society of England. He read a paper at
that congress on * The best Varieties of Fruits cultivated in
England,' with a view of advancing horticulture by communicat-
ing from one country to another the experience which has been
obtained of the cultivation of flowers and fruit under varieties of

soils and differences of climate. He received a few months later

Ia silver medal from the King of Italy.

     Whilst abroad received many letters from him; two or

three of which are here transcribed.

You have passed the Semmering, and you remember how we turned
round to ascend the pass. Well, we left Yienna and slept hei-e, stopping

at the station at the turn round at the eleventh station. (Here follows

a diagram.)

Semmering. The place is most beautiful, with a face of rock of

astounding grandeur behind the hotel. This morning we started about

8 o'clock and drove up the gorge, which is perhaps the finest in Europe.
The first mile or two was flat, and we saw the waterworks for Vienna,

which come out of limestone rocks, as the water comes from the ground at
Carshalton. After a time the valley narrows to a gorge, only sufficient
room for the river and the* wood. At one place the road is carried on

planks over the course of the river thus (here is a drawing). The whole
road had abundance of wild flowers ; amongst the most remarkable were

Sempervivums, Sedums, Saxifrages, the blue Hepatica, the Cyclamen, the

Igrape Hyacinth, the beautiful Gentian Yerna. Several plants never
saw before the wild Auricula, the Trolleus Europaeus, the green-stalked

ISpleenwoi-t, all of which sent many specimens, of which you shall come
Iin for your fair share. was quite tired grubbing up the plants, and got
a large quantity. On our return many of the party saw a number of

chamois, seven of which rushed up the mountain, sending down the stones

and mightily delighting the observers.

From the cold and wet we have had lately, the tips of all the moun-

tains, which are about 5000 feet high, are covered with snow; and the

Cupivah of snow-clad mountains, pine-clad sides, the clear, sparkling
river, and the cumulous clouds casting their shadows ever each and

towards the mountain-tops, produced a scene which was truly delightful

in itself, and caused us all to think that the day was one never to be for-
   You
              must never  togoantyothYiniegnnwahicwhithohuatveviseivteinrgsetehnisbemfooruen. taiInt
which        is superior
Igotten.

gorge,
is much larger and finer than the Hellerthal of the Black Mountains;
it is wider and finer than the gorge which you saw in Switzerland ; and
it is much larger, and the mountains higher, than the gorge of the

baths of Pfeffers, which you have so often laughed at me for so much

admiring.
We are all well, and your mother is behaving like a brick, getting up

at seven in the morning. She is now drying some flowers.

     To-morrow we go to Trieste, thence to Venice, Hotel Europe ; but it
will be no use sending any more letters till ,we arrive at Florence, where
we hope to be on May 10th, in the evening.

SEMMERING, May 3, 1874.
120                 MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                         [CHAP. X.

     We   came  yesterday   (Monday) to  Trieste, arriving at ten  at night.
     you  have  done the   road, need                              very fine
IAs                                      not describe it. It is a

journey, the Seminering being covered with the lovely Gentian Yerna.
IThe Edelweiss was sold by ragged boys at the stations.      bought you a
Ilittle bouquet of flowers.
                             wanted to have got a lot of roots, but
Isomehow or other Herr B. did not act with sufficient energy, and only
bought two plants of the gardener at English prices, one for you and one

for myself.
      We did our journey amidst cloud and rain, which made the effects in
the mountains very fine and beautiful. To get from here to Yenice we go
either by water or by rail. Some want one way and some another, where-

I Iupon an argument arises.
         shall remain calm upon the point, as do not care one hair's breadth
Iwhich way we go.
          have been much pleased to watch the progress of the trees, for
although we are so much south, we are still much in the same state as
you are in England : for example, the apple-trees are in the beginning of
flower; the horse-chestnuts in the same state. The vines have barely
started, so that when they begin they will go on at a terrible rate, to make

up in summer for the lost time in winter and spring.

     Keep your house moist. Give water to the atmosphere by watering the
Ifloor and walls every day, and, above all things, do not permit cold blasts of air.
     Yesterday      despatched a box of alpines to England of my own

getting, but really, when you are out for the whole day, there is very little
Itime for plant-hunting, which is tiring and wearisome.
          am writing this letter, looking over the Adriatic, with its ships

and port.                                                           must

   .... IWrite and tell me how your little man is (his grandson)
bring him home a little plant, as we must make him love fruit and

flowers, &c. &c.

     Yesterday we had the most lovely day at Trieste; one of those
grand sunshines which Italy only can offer. We drove along the
Ibay to the house of Maximilian, one of the most beautiful houses
which     ever saw. It was faultless in design, fitted up with the

most exquisite taste. The gardens were delightful, and for the first

time the nightingales sung their delicious tunes. All was lovely, whether
within or without. But where were the proprietors ? The lady in a
mad-house; the master dead from the ruthless bullets of foreign bar-
barians ! Avoid too much ambition. Do not desire to have the baby
grow as high as St. Paul's, or write poetry like Homer before he can

speak.    " Who pants for glory, finds but short repose ;

            A breath revives him, or a breath o'erthrows."   POPE.

     At

Ihandful.
          Trieste   we found the Maidenhair     fern,  and   got a pretty good
                      show due obedience, and  speak   very  prettily, will give
            If you

some to you.

      The Wistarias were in full blossom, and all Nature is putting forth
its spring attire.

      Poor Yenice looks more decayed than when you were here ; but we
will let you know further when we have seen more, &c. &c.
CHAP. X.]   TESTIMONIAL FROM WORKING MEN.                121

Here we are, and asked for a letter from you, but, alas ! no letter to

hand. Are you weary ? are you dreary ? or are you too cheery to write ?
Perhaps little Georgey attracts all attention, and poor
                                                         is

forgotten.

      The setting sun fades, the rising grows higher and brighter ; so grand-
papa grows less, grandson bigger. You may be able to telegraph to me

till Saturday if you think of coming to us in Switzerland. [There was some

Italk of myself and my husband joining them abroad, but it fell through.]
         am writing to you with a thunderstorm raging over the Apennines.

It is warmer here than before.
    IThe king opens the Horticultural Exhibition to-morrow at half -past

eleven. We are all well. As you have seen Florence, need not describe
it. There is an absence of swifts which is remarkable, as there was a

great number which used to skim by the windows when we were last here.

    In January 1874, the Conservative candidate for Kochester
having withdrawn at the last moment, Alfred Smee suddenly

stepped into a train and found himself at Kochester the day only
before the nomination, causing a great fright among the Kadicals,
who thought they were going this time to walk the course. Not-
withstanding such a short notice, he telegraphed to Eochester to
say he would address them that same evening. The room was

crowded so as to cause great inconvenience, even the road outside

the house being blocked up; and what was most peculiar was,
that the meeting was almost entirely of working men. He polled
835 votes,* and for his pluck in coming forward like this at
the last hour he received from the working men of Kochester a
very handsome testimonial, consisting of a silver claret jug, cups
and salver, accompanied by an illuminated scroll, containing the
signatures of 600 subscribers. On the claret jug is the following
inscription:

      " Presented to Alfred Smee, F.R.S., by the Conservative freemen and
electors of the city of Rochester, in recognition of his spirited conduct
in contesting the city on constitutional principles, April 2nd, 1874."

     The presentation was made the occasion of a very imposing
demonstration. One of the papers recording the speeches says,

      Mr. Smee and some London friends arrived at the South Eastern
Railway Station at Strood about 7 o'clock in the evening, and was met
by a large and enthusiastic gathering of his followers, accompanied by a

strong band and by bearers carrying flags and banners. A carriage and

pair had been provided for Mr. Smee, and several of his followers were also
in carriages. Immediately on Mr. Smee's arrival a procession was formed,
headed by the band, and the principal streets of the borough were paraded

      * Mr. Smee polled upwards of 200 more votes than were ever before
recorded for a Conservative candidate for Rochester.
122                   MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.              [CHAP. X.

by the imposing gathering. Bed lights were    burned all along the route,
and gave a romantic touch to the procession.  Crowds of persons watched
the progress of the demonstration through      the streets, windows were

thrown open, handkerchiefs were waved, and the cheering was immense.
The Corn Exchange was entered at about half-past eight, and was soon
entirely filled with Mr. Smee's warm-hearted supporters. The silver
articles forming the presentation lay upon a table on the platform. Mr.
G. Watson, jun., hon. secretary to the presentation fund (a true, zealous,
and steadfast supporter of Mr. Smee), read some letters from various
gentlemen who signified their gratification at Mr. Smee having a pre-
sentation. Major McCory was in the chair, and after an excellent speech
Mr. C. J. Carter, a working man, in appropriate terms presented the testi-
monial. Mr. Smee then rose to reply.

     A full report of his speech, as reported in the ' Kochester
Journal/ is in the Appendix, No. XXXV.
                                                          received
   IPrevious to this and immediately after the election,

this letter from my father :

     IMY DEAR MARY, The Rochester affair is quite a romance, and too
long to tell you.     went down and had only half-an-hour to sign the

I Ipreliminary forms.
         found that the party was so split up that determined to return to
London ; but having called a meeting at about three hours' notice, when

Ithe hotel was full and the whole street was full, felt bound to address
Ithem. was received with extraordinary enthusiasm, and my voice being
Imuch more than usual obedient to my will, made a most elegant and
eloquent speech, which fetched the whole audience.

    IAt the end told them that the party were not sufficiently organized,
Iand that should go back to London.
    I IThere was the greatest uproar you ever heard, and believe, if  had,

some of the Conservative leaders would have been lynched. The whole

Iroom called upon me to stand, but replied that the money came out of
Imy pocket, and could not, in justice to my family, permit it.

    I required half-an-hour for consideration, and the chairman was taken
by me from the working men. They appointed four delegates to wait

upon me, who said they wanted neither money nor beer, but wanted me to

Ibe their member, whereupon a solemn compact was formed between us

that should pay nothing for organization, that they would do all the
work for nothing, and I, on my part, should stand and pay the Act of
Parliament expenses.

     The most enthusiastic and exciting affair took place, and they kept
their word. They brought up eight hundred and thirty-five people, and we
had only thirty-six hours' notice. Carts and waggons and more remark-
able than all a donkey-cart decked out in pink ribbons stood before the
King's Head all day in case they should be required.

      Not one drop of beer or wine was given away, and not one shilling

      The election would have been secured by the distribution of a few
half-crowns among the very poor.

      We had two enormous meetings on the day before the poll, at one of
CHAP. X.]  THE ROCHESTER ELECTION.  123

which the Admiral came from Chatham and spoke strongly in my

favour.

The city was perfectly quiet. The present members received me with
every courtesy. Martin spoke of the rows of former times, and said what

Ia fright he was in. He spoke of it with laughter, and said if did not get
Iin he hoped would write another book, as he had bought ' My Garden,' and
was very much pleased with it. Mr. Goldsmith was purposely courteous, to
Ishow there was no ill feeling.
                                 spoke to Foord and Aveling and the town
Iclerk and Steele, the chairman of the other side. He roared when told
Ihim that offered a man a sovereign at the last election to cover his house
Iwith my bills, to give him a hint as to how he should vote ; but told him
he was afraid of the Bench. We had also a good laugh with the mayor

and town eouncil in solemn conclave assembled. There was a question

I Iwhether might or might not stop in the council chamber, when told
Ithem perhaps had better stop, or they would form a committee to oppose
my return, which caused the member and some of the council who saw the

joke to roar with laughter ; but some of the Blues did look blue indeed at

having their dignity tiifled with. The result of the election is looked

Iupon as a gain for Conservatism, by the manner have worked the in-
Idustrial classes ; but have lost, and there is an end of it.

     Perhaps it may not be out of place here to insert the kind
terms in which Mr. Martin, the Liberal member for Kochester,
referred to Mr. Smee in a speech delivered to his constituents
shortly after my father's death, for it shows so well the generous

nature of Mr. Martin and the entire absence of ill feeling

between them.

      Mr. Martin, on rising to address the meeting, was received with a
round of applause. He said, before proceeding to the topics of his speech
he would do what he felt was only English and manly to do, and that was
to refer to one who had just departed this life. The person he meant did
not belong to their side, but he had known him many years and had four
times contested that city with him. He referred to the late Mr. Alfred
Smee. (Applause.) He was a man of great good humour, of pleasant
manners, and an able man in his profession. He was affectionate and
pleasant in his private life, and although they had fought he hoped they
had never interrupted their friendship. (Applause.) Although an oppo-
nent, Mr. Smee used to send him a copy of all his new books, and he

(Mr. M.) must acknowledge that he was a most formidable opponent. At

the last election, by his plucky manner and great good humour, he not
only got the votes of nearly every Conservative in the city, but he also
got more neutral votes than any other man could have got, and he (Mr. M.)
deeply regretted that he had been removed from amongst them. (Loud
applause.)

     In 1875, he put forth the hypothesis that the Council for the
Eoyal College of Surgeons in England should be elected from
Fellows by seniority of their membership, and not of their Fellow-

ship ; and on that principle he offered himself as a candidate for a
             MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                            [CHAP. X.

seat on the Council. For this purpose the following circulars or

letters were published :

IGENTLEMEN,           beg to return my thanks to the numerous Fellows
who have answered my last circular, asking their opinion whether seniority
should be determined by the date of membership or Fellowship.

      The Fellows, in the proportion of nearly twelve to one, have expressed
an opinion that seniority should rank from the date of membership.

       One of our most distinguished army surgeons adds these significant
words : " Just as in the army, medical service time for progressive increase
of pay counts from the date of the first and lowest commission."

     It has been suggested to me that there is a combination of medical
schools to return their own men, which, if true, would practically amount

to a disenfranchisement of the Fellows, as no individual candidate can
stand against a combination of interests, and thus the creation of the
Fellowship for independent election is absolutely frustrated.
    ITo the minority who desire seniority to rank from the date of Fellow-

ship, would point out that, as in the past the members were deprived of
their just seniority by the institution of the Fellowship, so in the future
there is nothing to prevent the Fellows from being deprived of their
present seniority by the creation of a new class, such for instance as the
institution of doctors of surgery, from whom the Council might be chosen,
to the exclusion of the remainder of the Fellows.

     It now clearly appears, that the Fellows who approve the principle of
seniority from membership cannot come to the College to vote without the
almost prohibitory inconvenience of a journey to London.

     It must not be forgotten that, from the peculiar properties of members
in connection with election matters, it will be necessary (particularly if
combination exists) that plumpers and only plumpers be recorded, in
order that the election may be secured.

    IFor that reason, as this is a contest of principle, and not, as far as
Iam concerned, a fight between rival competitors, earnestly beg all those
Fellows who desire that a seniority once obtained should never be taken
away by any subsequent legislation, to vote for myself, without any respect
to personal consideration, but solely as the representative of the principle

of seniority by membership.

      SIE, The last election at the Royal College of Surgeons has revealed

a wide-spread discontent among the Fellows. It is assumed that the
members of Council are elected by the Fellows at large ; but the election
takes place at the College in London, whilst the majority of the electors
reside in the country, hundreds of miles distant, so that it is not possible
that any election can represent the opinions of the general body.

     It is a mere mockery of justice to bestow a franchise on Fellows
which in many cases they cannot possibly use, because they are unable to
leave their duties and incur the cost, the loss of time, and fatigue of the
journey, simply to enable them to drop a voting-paper into a ballot-box.
                      with           is bound
Every man entrusted          a vote  not, he    to have a bond fide opportunity
                      if he   have             is virtually disfranchised. For
of recording it; for

this reason, Parliament has wisely decreed that the members of TJniver
sities, who are in a similar position with respect to residence to the
CHAP. X.] LETTER TO ROYAL COLLEGE OP SURGEONS.                     125

Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons, can vote by papers without the

necessity of a journey.
By the Act 24 & 25 Viet. cap. 53, the members of the Universities
of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin are empowered to employ voting-

papers. This privilege was extended to members of the London Univer-

sity by 30 & 31 Viet. cap. 102 ; and the details of election were further

simplified by 31 & 32 Viet. cap. 65. The College of Surgeons having been

shown the way, has only to take advantage of the precedent by procuring
an Act, of a few lines in length, rehearsing the University Election Acts,

and applying their provisions to the particular case of the College of

Surgeons before the next election takes place. The question has only to
be raised for its propriety to be admitted ; for where is the surgeon who

would not rather watch a serious case, when life or death may depend,
than neglect his patient, that he may formally hand over a printed paper

to the recognized official of the College of Surgeons? To obtain the

Idesired end, proper means must be taken. The body of country Fellows

must ask before their request can be granted ; and shall be glad to
receive the names of every Fellow desirous of voting by papers, that we
may at once take steps to obtain the Act of Parliament necessary to give us
our just due.
                         (Signed)  ALFBED SMEE.

P.S. Only fifty-seven country Fellows voted at the last election.
126              MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                            [HAP. XL

                 CHAPTEE XL

                 1875.

'The Mind of Man,' eleventh book Plan       of work Religion not   discordant
     with Reason Different classes of men   should associate more  together

      Sewage Question begun, 1873 to 1876.

IN the spring of 1875, 'The Mind of Man, a Natural System

of Mental Philosophy,' was published. This was the last printed

book from Alfred Smee's pen, and was based on his earlier work,
' Electro-Biology.'

    In ' The Mind of Man ' we find that mankind is primarily

divided into five great classes or groups, according as man

exhibits more or less of each particular quality of mental power.

These classes or groups are again subdivided into lesser divisions.

Thus :                                               m"eatnoingcom" bseinnes.a"tion.I"t

     1st Class.  Aisthenic ideas, from aia-Qija-is,
     2nd Class.    Syndramic, from a-vvSpapeiv,

means the possession of ideas, and is the result of all the actions

on the ultimate fibrils at any one instant of time.

     3rd Class. Noemic, from vovs, "mind," is the faculty of

inducing laws and acting upon them, and evinces the higher

powers of mind.

     4th Class. Pneuma-Noemic, from irvevpa, "spirit," as it

appertains to the appreciation of spiritual qualities, where the

qualities of the mind are regulated by the consideration of the

soul, of eternity, of heaven, and of hell.
     5th Class. Dynamic, from Swa/u?, " force." Individuals may

be comprised in this class who evince great activity either from

an external stimulus upon their organs of sensation, or from the

internal stimulus of their own thoughts. All active men there-

fore belong to this class. Activity may have its origin at various
parts of the nervous system.

     Each of these groups or classes admits of subdivisions : thus
CHAP. XL]           ' THE MIND OF MAN.'                                          127

the Aisthenie group admits of six subdivisions, five of which

represent the mental power derived from the respective organs
of sensation and one from knowledge derived from bodily

feeling, as

             Eye sensations or Opsaisthenics.
             Ear Ousaisthenics.

             Taste                      Ghimaisthenics.

             Odour                      Khinaisthenics.

             Feeling (bodily)           Cosnaisthenics.

             Feeling (mental) Somaisthenics.

Each of these divisions may be again subdivided : thus a man

may have a powerful vision for small objects, a great range of

adjustment, a power for the appreciation of colours, or a quick-

ness in the perception of objects.

Every other organ of sensation may be likewise subdivided.

The Syndramic group comprises not only all those qualities

of the mind which appertain to the first or Aisthenic group, but

also superadds to them the faculty of receiving information from

the words and writings of others : and this second quality again

presents many varieties, from the classes of knowledge which the
mind of any particular man is competent to receive. Again, all

the above varieties of mind are also doubled by the consideration

that the same impression may variously affect different men : for

instance, "the same amount of light, though a delight to one

man, is a pain to another."

    "As there may be three qualities in each subdivision of this

group, it follows, therefore, that no less than eighteen divisions

of this class may be noted."
     The Noemic group are likewise also governed by all the lower

subdivisions, but have also characteristics superadded, so that

uthnids ergrNouopemmicayreaalssoon,be"  considerably    subdivided.     We read  that,
                                        There is a    gap in the     powers of   mind

between the human reason and the reason of brutes. The mind

deals with its various ideas, and forms abstract conceptions. It

forms the notion of mankind apart from any particular man :

the notion of heat apart from hot things ; of light apart from

illuminated bodies. The capability of using these higher abstrac-

tions confers upon all men powers not possessed by the lower

animals. Mankind alone of all the animal creation uses words

and language for the communication of ideas; employs fire to

cook food ; lamps to illuminate rooms ; electricity to convey intel-
           MEMOIR OF ALFEED SMEE.                                                      [CHAP. XI.

ligence, or tools by which mechanical force is regulated. No
animal but man has the power of abstraction or of using abstract

Iideas." For further illustrations of the great difference there is

in the mind of animals and the mind of man, refer the reader
to ' The Mind of Man,' as well as to ' Instinct and Eeason.'

The Pneuma-Noemic group. Where the faculties of dwelling

huepaovnenth, ahtewll hic"hbiesarinafinpitreopersurcehlaatsiotnhetoDtehietyo, ththeer  soul, eternity,
                                                                                       faculties com-

prised within the former classes, the man is greatly dignified and

raised above his fellows. In cases where these properties of the

mind are shown, to the exclusion of the other faculties, the man

degenerates to the degraded position of the wild fanatic and

devotee."

       We must (he adds, in ' Instinct and Reason ') not mistake cases of per-
verted reason for instances where these faculties are fully developed. For
instance, the Hindoo priests induce the widow to sacrifice herself on the

funeral pile only by an intense excitement of her nervous system ; so also
the Popish priests ensnare their victims for nunneries and convents in a
similar manner. In like manner the fanatical enthusiasts of America are
so over-stimulated that it is recorded that they not only injure their bodily
frame, but occasionally damage permanently their mental powers. All

these cases do not come under this class ; but the sufferers exhibit the
natural degradation of perverted reason under the false guidance of a

heartless priesthood.

     The Dynamic group.   There are also many varieties or sub-
divisions of this group.

      Some persons are quick of action, others indolent; some act by
aisthenic impressions, others direct their actions by thought. Some are
governed by religious impressions ; others act solely from the immediate
impressions of pleasure or pain.

     Throughout all these subdivisions the human mind is modified
by memory or forgetfulness.

     All these states of the mind, too, are governed by the age of the indi-

vidual. The boy exhibits properties in the various departments of the mind
different from those of the child, the youth from the boy, the adult from
the youth, advanced life from the adult, and senility from advanced life.

This is beautifully shown in the diagram accompanying the
fifth chapter on 'The Mind of Man,' in which he speaks of education,
'amInnidnstdhinoscwhtoiuatlndsdhboEeuelbadrsoobunegh' ctiosinndtauocptperledat,ytystooilltuhthsaettraentxoiocnluonseioofndetohpefartdthmieffeenrretesnto.cef
                                                                                                                                                              the

                                                                                                                                                              In

                                                                                                                                                              in
CHAP. XL]  PLAN OF ' THE MIND OF MAN.'  129

the mental faculties that is required according to the profession
or calling of the individual. Thus he shows how the lawyer
requires the second and third class of faculties (Syndramic and
Noemic) more especially to be brought into play. The doctor
has a more extensive range, and requires for his profession the
first three classes of faculties to be fully developed (Aisthenic,
Syndramic, and Noemic). The engineer requires faculties in
almost all respects similar to those which the doctor must
possess for the successful exercise of his profession, and the
clergyman should have a full development of the faculties of
the second, third, and fourth classes (Syndramic, Noemic, and

Pneuma-Noemic).
     Besides dividing the mental faculties into the above-named

classes or groups, he further proves that the nervous system is
a voltaic circuit.

     All batteries (says he) in animal bodies are compound batteries, one
battery being in the body, the other in the brain ; and, moreover, it is not

only a compound battery, but is also one in which its fibres interlace in a

wonderfully complex manner.

     This he most fully sets forth and further illustrates by maps,
diagrams, and various woodcuts. In two diagrams at page 213, the
theoretical nervous combination of lower animals and that of man

are demonstrated. It suffices here to mention that these two dia-

grams show a marked difference between the nervous combination

of lower animals and that of man. In the diagram showing the

nervous combination of man, we find that the Aisthenic occupies
the lower department of the mind ; higher in the mind we come to
the Syndramic department ; then higher still the Noemic, until we
reach the Pneuma-Noemic, which is the highest department of all
of the mind.

      Such is the rough sketch of the general plan on which the
' Mind of Man ' and earlier ' Electro-Biology ' are based. Upon
this model were all Alfred Smee's writings and speeches con-
structed. His whole course of life was modelled upon this his

cherished metaphysical and moral structure.
     This work treats extensively of the supposed discordance of

religion and science : for to show, and indeed to prove, that for
the welfare of mankind religion and science must go hand in

hand, was ever the favourite task of his life. In this work he
has fully proved where the fallacy lies ; how it is to be remedied,

so as to prevent idolatry, ignorance, and matter-worship on the
                   MEMOIR OP ALFRED SMEE.                    [CHAP. XT.

one hand, ,and conceit, infidelity, and ignorance on the other.
We read

      There are two modes by which the human mind may be affected, and
all our actions regulated to a common purpose : one by the impression of
the nervous system by induction from below upwards, that is, from the
action on the nerves of sensation through the mind to general laws ; and
the other from the effect of general laws, which act downwards by deduc-

tion to the particular instance.
The one by induction is the ordinary result of the natural mind as
detailed in this work. The one by deduction is by the reception of the

laws of God as given us by religion.
      Are religion and reason discordant ? No ! One affects from above

downward, the other from below upward ; and if both are right, they must
                             differ. The doctrines of religion would be vain
agree, they cannot possibly
unless they are the laws of  God and the word of God. In like manner it
must be remembered that the inductions of the human mind, if made in
sincerity and truth, are equally the result of the mechanism created by God.
Man should therefore accept as a fact that the results of the true
reason of man are identical with the laws of God, and the one originating

inductively from the human mind should aecord deductively with the
results which are obtained by the ordinances of religion.

     Mentally, if both are right, there can be no disagreement ; for whether

we examine the question from above downwards or from below upwards, no

difference can possibly exist, inasmuch as the mind is one whole. Then why

should there be, therefore, these continual differences between the teachers
of religion and the teachers of science ? At the present time it is difficult

to enter a church without hearing the name of science being held from the
pulpit to disrespect ; and it is equally difficult to enter the chambers of

science without hearing the pastor of religion in a like manner spoken of
with dissatisfaction. And why? The pastors of religion are, as a rule,

profoundly ignorant of the physical laws which govern the universe, and

the teachers of science are equally ignorant of the moral laws which govern
the actions of mankind.

Then a little further on we read

The fault of the present day is the education of teachers of religion

at one school, where physical science is not only discarded but ignored,
and the education of teachers of science at another school, where the laws

of religion are almost as equally ignored.
The remedy for this gigantic evil would be to teach all men to a

certain extent knowledge in common, so that when they diverge af terwards
into their special studies, science shall not be without religion, nor religion
without knowledge

The priest trained to the study of the external world, and of the
natural operations of the human mind, is a totally different man from the

priest who ignores knowledge and the effect of reason. The one sees
Nature and God as they are, the other only by his own unenlightened mind,
which leads many to inconstancy, idolatry, and man- worship
      Wherever religion and science
                                     do not exactly  accord, the discrepancy
marks error. It is then worth any    labour to make  them agree, by the con-
CHAP. XI.]        HIS OPINION OF DAKWINISM.  131

joined operations of the labourers in religion and science, that truth may

Iprevail.

      For the last five-and-f orty years have been a regular attendant at St.

Paul's   Cathedral, and consequently have   Ihteiasrdclemaor sttooaf ntyheraptrieoancahlerms inodf
mark
        in the metropolis of this century.
there is error in the pulpit : one affirms, another denies, whilst it is

the property of truth ever to remain unchanged, and to stand the test
of fair inquiry.

     And further on we read

      Those who love their church, and view it as an inestimable blessing
to mankind, most earnestly wish that the pastors should so discipline
their own minds by knowledge that they might appeal to the minds of their
hearers from the general law to the particular instance, and from the par-
ticular instance to the general law, for the teachings of religion and science

must be identical when both are true. It is a lamentable fact, but never-

theless one which admits of no contradiction, that religion, as frequently
taught in the pulpit, is not the religion of the mass of the congregation of
ordinary knowledge and intelligence. Religion is often brought forward in
a form positively distasteful to the minds of many. The omnipotence of
God, and the importance of His almighty laws, are neglected for human
traditions and mediaeval superstitions. This very serious position cannot
long remain without danger to the community, for reason and religion are
one, and cannot be divided ; and, above all things, it is of paramount im-
portance that religious teachings, involving as they do the laws of God,
should be in every minute particular based on absolute purity and
unswerving truth.

     And in another part

       Every good follower of religion must admit that the time which ought
to be spent in the elucidation of the moral laws of God to regulate actions,
is frequently spent in discussions of the propriety of frivolous garments, or
 the vain conduct of idle ceremonies, and on the discourse on vain supersti-

tions, till those who pretend to be teachers show that they ought to be

 taught, as they bring the doctrines of religion into contempt.

     On Darwinism, or the gradual development of the higher

animals from the lower, he writes :

      There appear to be some persons who imagine that every conceivable
form of organic being is produced by chance, or a fortuitous concurrence
of atoms ; and of these all which are not suitable for surrounding cir-
cumstances perish, and only those which are suitable for the circum-
stances live.

       When we regard the intricate complexity of many parts of organic
beings, to say nothing of the requisite relation of one organic being to
another, as for instance an insect to a flower, it requires a much stronger
exercise of faith than such persons themselves would like to admit, when
they adopt a theory of chance where infinite contrivance and wisdom
seem so clearly to manifest themselves.

                                                                                                K2
132  MEMOIE OF ALFEED SMEE.           [CHAP. XI.

   I have lingered long over this last and important work of

Alfred Smee, because it embraces his great system of Mental
Philosophy, which should be studied by every intelligent youth,
that he may conduct on a sure basis the discipline of his own
mind, and his relations with his fellow-men. Of all the
books Alfred Smee wrote this was unquestionably his favourite.
The frontispiece contains an admirable likeness of him drawn
by Mr. H. B. Kobertson, which was most delicately and finely
engraved for this work by the celebrated engraver Mr. C. H.
Jeens. The picture was expressly taken for the above work, and
was the gift to my mother from one of the public companies to
which my father belonged, as a kind token of grateful recognition
for some great services he had done it. There are besides
fifty-eight woodcuts, and the book, like ' My Garden,' is beauti-
fully got up, and published by Messrs. Bell.

    In the summer of 1873 there was an outburst of typhoid fever
in the West-end of London, in the close vicinity of Cavendish

Square. The question was raised that this pestilence was caused
by the milk from cows fed upon sewage grass, and a controversy
ensued whether or no sewage grounds were hurtful to health.
For some years Alfred Smee had been investigating the question
of sewage ; and his son, Alfred Hutchison Smee, who kept a

small herd of cows at Wallington, had also been making various

experiments on the feeding of cows, the results of which the
latter gentleman has embodied in a valuable little treatise full of

important statistics, which is entitled ' Milk in Health and

Disease.' * No sooner did this controversy on sewage begin in

the daily papers than my father wrote his own experience.
The correspondence of Alfred Smee on ' Milk, Typhoid Fever,

and Sewage,' will be found in the Appendix, No. XXXVI. A., as

also the paper he read before the Health Section of the Social
Science Congress at Norwich, October 3rd, 1873, on ' Sewage,

Sewage Produce, and Disease.' (See Appendix, No. XXXVI.B.)

Later, on December 3rd, 1875, Alfred Smee read a paper before
the Society of Arts, on ' Proposed Heads of Legislation for the

Regulation of Sewage Grounds.' (See Appendix, No. XXXVI.c.)
The discussion on this paper was adjourned to January 19th,

1876. To this discussion Alfred Smee replied, and that evening

Iwas the last time heard my father speak before a public meet-
Iing. Little did think that evening that exactly in a year and

     * This little book is published  by Messrs. Newman, Devonshire  Street,

Bishopsgate Street. (1875.)
CHAP. XL]      THE SEWAGE QUESTION.                       133

three days we should have laid him in his grave. Happy it is

for us that we cannot read the future !

One of the members of the Croydon Board of Health made

an eloquent speech on this occasion, in which he several times

reproached Mr. Smee with the absurdity of wishing to draw a

concord round the farm at Beddington. The absurdity was

evident to other persons besides the speaker, for as he sat down

amid general cheering, the following epigram was handed to

Mr. Smee :

            "  To think a man the Croydon Board      "on
               Should take a concord for a cordon I
134  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.  [CHAP. XII.

                         CHAPTEB XII.

                                                   1876 TO 1877.

 Book on Fishing Hard-working Letters from abroad Letters to the ' Times,'
     'Standard,' and the 'Gardeners' Chronicle' His death, January 11, 1877,
      aged fifty-eight Buried at St. Mary's, Beddington, within sight of the
     garden, January 16, 1877.

IN the beginning of the year 1876 we have seen Mr. Smee discussing
the heads of legislation which he had drawn up for the regulation
of sewage grounds ; this was immediately followed by his taking
a great interest in the fresh facts relating to the potato disease
(see p. 35, also the Appendix, No. XV.c.). He was also interesting
himself in the Colorado beetle, and was carrying on a correspon-
dence in America and Germany, finding out all that was known
of the devastation and habits of the insect. He had himself
obtained a dead Colorado beetle from a friend, and had had a
woodcut made of it. Besides this, in the midst of his other
business, he was, in spare moments before breakfast and after a
late dinner, busy writing a new book on Fishing. Much was
written ; still the finishing touches of the master hand were re-
quired for those chapters which were otherwise completed. This
book was to have been copiously illustrated ; and from some of
the woodcuts which have come under my notice, and from frag-

Iments of the manuscript which my father read to me from time to

time, should say that this work on Fishing bade fair to rival
its sister book, ' My Garden.' But this work was not to be com-
pleted ; and as Longfellow tells us :

                               " Labour with what zeal we will,
                                     Something still remains undone.

                                 Something uncompleted still
                                     Waits the rising of the sun."

My brother has kindly offered me one of the illustrations for this

work. It is a woodcut taken from a water-colour drawing, of
CHAP. XII.]     HIS LOVE FOB HIS GRANDSON.      135

my father and my brother in the latter's boat on the Thames.
The one is fishing and the other rowing.

    In May, Mr. Smee went abroad on business connected with

one of the companies to which he belonged. That he contrived
on this journey to see some of his favourite haunts, will be
perceived in the following letters he sent to his daughter. He

had intended to go in March ; but as he writes to her

      The weather indeed has been awful : terrible snow- storms ; horrible
gales and tempests ; excessive rain ; darkness ; floods ; eruptions of

IVesuvius.
         intended to have gone abroad, but did not like the aspect of things.
      The poor children must suffer from this detestable weather. Tell

I IGeorgey really love him very much and should like to see him, and

hope nice warm weather will come, and then his pretty flowers will grow

and grow, &c.

IHere should perhaps give a passing allusion to an extra-

ordinary attachment  it (Iif  may so call  it)  which had sprung up

between himself and his little grandson; for no one who had

not been witness to           could appreciate this attachment to
             a

its full extent. Upon the child what pains would not the
grandfather bestow He would never tire of explaining to him
                !

the different plants, and would take him frequently to the

Zoological Gardens to teach him not only the names of the

animals, but the habits of the various creatures that are

there kept. So often did they go that the keepers knew my
father and his little charge, and were only too eager to show

the child the peculiarities of the different animals committed to

their care. Even in the midst of business hours this grandson

was still often in his grandfather's thoughts, and he would at

those times go and search for books or toys, or send him letters

which, although written with the simplicity of child, yet at
                a

                         II
                                                    :
                                                                                   a
                                                                    Ia
the same time always contained some knowledge worthy of

great and good man.                             hair, his daughter

     On sending lock of his little grandson's

received the following letter

      Many thanks for your kind wishes and handsome donation, which
you only could have sent. This gift of gifts deserves a crystal box to
preserve it, and perhaps after have attained my hundredth year, and
return to the earth of which am made, and your kind present returns to
you, this little token of affection will be looked upon by you, himself,
and peradventure his descendant, with rare and curious interest, and
your thoughts will be carried back to time about persons past and with
hopes for time and persons to come.
136                       MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.           [CHAP. XII.

     From Zurich, May 13th, 1876, he writes :

      We have been to Brussels, from thence to Frankfort, thence to
Passau, from Passau to Lintz down the Danube, and then from Lintz

to Vienna by the Danube.
     We then went to Ansteller, from thence to Salzthal across to Inn-
                                      road that you could
sprucIkt,   by  the most   wonderful  ran through gorges   imagine.
           was  a single  line which                       over mountains by bad

curves, by  terrible inclines, across mountain torrents,   altogether a  remark-
able ride   through mountains, for hour after hour,                       became
                                                           till the eye

weary. Acres of lovely violets covered the ground. Masses of marsh

marigolds lit up the fields ; the lovely gentians gladdened the eyes ; and

literally acres of violets or rather pansies, yellow and tricoloured, formed a
natural flower garden gorgeous to behold. The skirts of the woods were
Nature's own landscape-gardening, with curved lines of woods and shrubs
on the sward of emerald green grass mixed with flowers. Then the moun-

tains were snow-covered and cloud-capped, and different views were

opened out at every turn of the road.
     Every now and then an eagle or huge hawk traversed the valleys.
    IAny traveller must go right through, for the accommodation is queer,

as you may judge when tell you that we took our meals at a restaurant
Iat a station, and slept in a cottage.

        sent the boy (his grandson) a letter. Tell your mother how he liked
it, and she can tell me when she writes.

    I suppose your husband will be off before this arrives ; if not, give my
Ilove, and tell him wish him a happy and prosperous voyage.
     The weather has been very bad cold, dark, and cloudy ; in, fact we

have not seen the sun for fourteen days.

     The Tyrol Pass was not altogether free from danger. We saw a

railroad carriage which had been smashed to atoms in a mountain torrent

below, and we did not go more than three to ten miles an hour. We could

not go over the Madler Pass or up the Engadine, because there was so

much snow ; in fact some patches of snow were lying at below 3000 feet.

     The snow mixed with the black pines and bright green foliage was

very striking. We shall move from here to Lucerne ; thence to Yevey ;

thence to Lyons, Toulouse, Nantes, and home : altogether 3000 miles.
Kiss the boy and girl.

    Iff another letter he writes thus :

    I Iwrote a letter to the dear boy (his grandson) which thought would
Ido for the dear girl that is, you also ; but have not heard how your

little daughter progresses.

    IWe have had an extraordinary journey : we went down the Danube

from Passau to Lintz, from Lintz to Vienna, which much enjoyed. It

was so bitterly cold that we were compelled to keep in the cabin, where
the views were as good as out of doors.

      We then crossed the Tyrol by a new route to Innspruck, the worst
travellers' route which ever was seen. The way lay south of Salzburg.

     Then he speaks of the flowers he saw, which have been already
alluded to in the former letter, and continues :
CHAP. XII.]            LETTERS FROM ABROAD.                            137

   From Innspruck we took a drive up the Bremer and crossed the
Lake Constance, and came to Zurich. From Zurich we came to Lucerne.

From Lucerne we went up the railway to the Bigi : there was so much
snow that we eould not get to the top, but only one-third the way up.
      The mountains about here are covered deeply with snow. Pilatus is

snow a long way down. All the mountains up the lake are well covered,
which makes the views intensely beautiful. We went up the lake to
Fluelen, and have returned to table d'hote. The lake never looked so

lovely, and, what is best of all, we are not troubled with numerous tourists.
IWe are still like the premature swallows.
                                              enjoy my rest excessively ;
Iand as have nothing to do, not even to settle accounts or railway
I Itickets, it is a thorough rest to me, which feel want.* We have been
Iat least 1600 miles in fourteen days, which is more than 110 miles a day.

        hope the tall boy (the gardener) does his work in the garden, for soon
Iall the succulent plants must take a promenade. Write to me to Hotel de
France, Bordeaux.      have seen a glorious sunset over Pilatus, also a sun-
rise. We have had a fish in the lakes of Zurich and Lucerne, without
being troubled with any weight of fish to carry afterwards. With best

love to boy and girl.

   During this visit my father visited Clermont in France, and

was interested with the geological formation of that place. One

of the mountains at Clermont is an extinct volcano, and from

there he     brought home      a Roman coin. This              Roman coin was
             he writes, " in  digging the foundation           of an observatory
" found,"

on the top of the Dorno, about 5000 feet high, the centre of a

huge series of extinct volcanoes at Clermont, in the centre of

France." My brother has kindly allowed me to take a woodcut

of the coin, which is here given.

                       FIG. 6A. Roman Coin found at Clermont.

      On the 17th  of August   he wrote  the  following        letter  to the
                   Homicidal
'  Times ' on " A             Kiver."

      The river Lea was as famous for its annual deaths half a century
ago as it is now. For several summers 1 resided on its banks, and on

      * When they came to sundry towns, it should be observed he had to
attend to weighty matters of business ; but, although he was travelling at the
rate of 110 miles a day, even this was a rest compared to his mental work in
London.
138  MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                        [CHAP. XII.

no year did we escape witnessing terrible calamities. On one day about
twenty-two were drowned by a boat casualty. Continually there were
deaths from swimming misadventures, notwithstanding that an almost
fabulous number of lives were saved by a skilled boatman named

Solomons.

     The bed of the river Lea is unequal. At every curve there is a deep

and dangerous hole, with under back currents, and there are deep shelves
in many parts of the banks. Hence the ordinary apparatus used by the
Royal Humane Society for dragging the river is comparatively useless, and

Ithe boat hook has to be relied upon.
         have been present when bodies have been raised. The exact position
to a foot has been known. The body could be felt by the hook and even

turned over, and yet could not be raised till repeated trials had been made.

IAll this caused so much delay that the last spark of life had fled before

the body could be recovered ; and well do remember the terrible scenes
of grief which were witnessed among the surviving relatives at so sudden

a bereavement.
      No person ought to venture to swim in the river Lea unless an

expert swimmer, and then only when thoroughly conversant with the
peculiarities of the river, and the boats ought to have police surveillance to
see that they are sound in structure, and that they are not let to an undue
number, of persons.

      There was always a popular idea that the water of the Lea was
particularly deadly, but at that time the water was clear and pure. Pro-
bably its deadly character is to be ascribed to its sluggishness, its great
depth, to its undercurrents, and to the difficulty of reclaiming bodies from

the dangerous shelves at the bottom.

     " This is true glory and renown ; when God,
       Looking on the earth, with approbation marks

       The just man, and divulges him through heaven
       TRoecaolul nHtishiasnpgrealsis,eswh! o" with true applause

                                            MILTON, Paradise Regained.

     His health now broke down. Being anxious to see his
daughter, who was ill at the time, he came down to Oxford
Iwith the intention of staying two or three days.
                                                   was shocked
Iat the change in his appearance since last saw him, about

three weeks previously. He said he was tired, and had been

examining medically about a dozen persons. He stayed between
four and five weeks with us at Oxford, and then returned to

his house in London, and at our urgent solicitations he promised
to give his whole attention to his own health, and to put himself
under the care of Dr. Moxon, one of the senior physicians of
Guy's Hospital, whose skill in medical knowledge is only equalled
CHAP. XII.]    HIS LAST ILLNESS.                             139

by the extreme thoughtfulness and kindness of his disposition.
Dr. Moxon was ever a great favourite, they having many sym-

pathies in common, and both being lovers of Nature's works.
But my father was beyond human skill, and the eyes of his family
were rudely opened to the shock that nothing could save him.

His lungs were too far gone ; and he was also suffering from
that seemingly incurable complaint, diabetes. But his family
owe a debt of gratitude to Dr. Moxon for the untiring zeal

and kindness he displayed in lessening and soothing his patient's

sufferings.

Throughout his illness my father's vigour of mind never

forsook him : to the last he retained the full use of his faculties.

At first he took delight in reading, in looking through and

properly arranging his carmine injections ; and when he became

too weak to    write himself,   he   dictated to others.   The following
letter from    his pen, on the                             by Panthers,"
                                 "  Distribution of Seeds

appeared in the ' Standard ' on October 17th, 1876 :

      An interesting fact in natural history was revealed dnring the recent
visit of his Royal Highness the Prince of "Wales to India. In one of

the hunting excursions in the neighbourhood of Baroda a panther was
shot, and numerous seeds were found to be attached to the skin. The

seeds had two perfect hooks, manifestly designed to attach themselves to

foreign bodies. As the panther moved about it collected the seeds on the
skin and carried them about wherever it went, but when it rubbed against
the shrubs it of necessity brushed some off, and thus distributed them.

These seeds were taken from the skin by an officer who was one of the

hunting party, and several came into the possession of Mrs. Home of
Staines, a great lover of horticulture, who did me the favour of sending me
Ispecimens. was so struck with the incident and the remarkable character
Iof the seed, that, after            it, desired it to be sown at
                                     handsome plant, and produced
" My Garden," when it
                accurately figuring
               rapidly grew into a
beautiful clusters of tubular flowers. It was immediately recognized to

belong to the genus Martynia, and on examination both Professor Oliver,
of the Royal Gardens, Kew, and Dr. Masters agree that it is Martynia
diandra, a plant which, although introduced into this country as far back
Ias 1731, has scarcely ever been cultivated for many years.
                                                             have
placed my specimen in the hands of Mr. Sowerby, the secretary of the
Royal Botanic Society, Regent's Park; and the plant, with one of the
seeds taken from the panther's skin, are now exhibited in the great

conservatory.

     Later, in November, he dictated the following little letter,
which was sent to the ' Gardeners' Chronicle,' and was copied
into many papers :
140        MEMOIR OF ALFRED SMEE.                                 [CHAP. XII.

           BiBD-CATCHING EXTRAORDINARY.

     In " My Garden " a somewhat large collection of ericas is grown, and
           their beautiful flowers  are coated with a layer       of- sticky and viscid
many of     the use of which is by                                is somewhat similar
material,                           no means apparent. It

to the viscid material which is found on the so-called carnivorous plants.
During this summer a little bird, probably one of the hedge-warblers with
which the garden abounds, entered the greenhouse in which the plants
were located, alighted upon the heath, when the feathers adhered so
tightly to the plant that the bird was retained a prisoner. When the
gardener came, he could only set free the bird by detaching a number of
the feathers. Of course it is not to be supposed that the erica is a
                        that  it eats  u"pMliyttlGeabrdiredns."!  This remarkable
carnivorous plant, and  this                                                       event
has been twice noticed        year at

     Throughout his illness he took pleasure in seeing his friends,
and was vexed when any were denied him ; for so many would

come every afternoon to see him, that his family were sometimes

fearful lest he should be over-tired. In the mornings he would
drive with my mother, myself, and his dearly loved little grandson

along the Thames Embankment.
     Throughout his last illness Alfred Smee showed himself a

true philosopher, and was most thoughtful and solicitous for the
comfort and welfare of others. He was soon to reap the reward

of his labours, for about 5 o'clock on the morning of Thursday,

the llth of January, 1877, amidst the wild storm of a raging

wind, he gently passed away without a sigh. The problem of his
life was now solved ; but how solved, he was unable to impart
to us. Many who mourned his loss came once again to see him,

and these, though parting in sadness, yet went away in a firm

and steadfast belief that to a righteous man death has no

terrors.

    A few days later, on Tuesday, the 16th of January, 1877, a

sad procession left 7, Finsbury Circus, and passed on its way
the Bank of England, Kennington, Clapham Common, Mitcham,
along the road which skirts that beautiful garden at Wallington,
which is delineated in the book ' My Garden,' and stopped before
the schools of St. Mary's, Beddington. Thence the mortal remains
of Alfred Smee were borne to the church by the gardeners and
by the men of my brother's yacht. Though the family wished
the funeral to be strictly private, yet so many testified their
respect to Alfred Smee that St. Mary's Church was full of
persons, that church which but four years before had been
CHAP. XII.] HIS BURIAL AT ST. MARY'S, BEDDINGTON.                       141

filled with friends who had thither repaired to show their

sympathy with him on the occasion of his much-loved daughter's

marriage, that church which received his dear grandson as a

member of the Church of England, and to which his own eyes

had so  often turned with pleasure during  the happy hours              "spTehnet
in his                                     it in his book :
        garden. It is thus he speaks of

church with its churchyard is one of the most picturesque near

London. It has been supplied with a melodious peal of bells,

which record the sorrow and declare the joy of the inhabitants.

The tower of the church is seen through a vista of trees from

my garden, and then reflected from the transparent waters of the

lake, as though Nature ordained that so good an object should

be twice seen."

The service was choral, and the lessons were most impres-

sively read by the much esteemed rector, the Reverend A. H.

Bridges ; and after the beautiful and touching hymn which

commences        " Christ will gather in His own

                 To the place where He is gone,

                 Where  othuerirlifheeaisrthaidndontrehaigsuhre"  lie,
                 Where                                            *

the sad procession wended its way to the little cemetery in
Beddington Park ; and there, after the most solemn yet most

exquisite singing by the choir, of Dr. Dyce's hymn

                 " Days and moments quickly flying

                 Blend the living with the dead ;
                 ISoon will you and
                  fEach within his
                          be lying                "
                        narrow bed

there, amidst the sobs of the multitude of high and low estate, we

laid in his grave all that was mortal of Alfred Smee. In his life-
time flowers he loved : we covered him with flowers in his grave,

and left him, the investigator of Nature, he whose thoughts
were ever contemplating the Author of all things, in that
little cemetery seen from his garden, amidst the scenes which he
in his lifetime had so much loved.

     The numbers of persons who came, many from long distances,
to pay their last respects to Alfred Smee, and the sobs of the
multitude, showed how much he was beloved, and how much his

     * From a German chorale. See ' Hymns Ancient and Modern,' No. 400.

   f ' Hymns Ancient and Modern,' No. 289.
142                 MEMOIE OF ALFEED SMEE.            [CHAP. XII.

loss was deplored. The poor said : " We have indeed lost a good

and kind friend ; we shall never have one like him again."
     " Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your

good"  works, and   glorify your Father which is  in heaven."      rest
       Blessed are   the dead which die in the    Lord ; for they

from their labours, and their works do follow them."
                APPENDIX.

                                            No. I.

ON THE STATE IN WHICH ANIMAL MATTER IS USUALLY
     FOUND IN FOSSILS. By MR. ALFRED SMEB, Student of King's

      College, London, and communicated by PROF. ROYLE, M.D., F.G.S.
      (Proceedings of the Geological Society of London, No. 57. 1838.)

THE author first describes briefly the composition of those parts of
recent animals capable of being preserved in a fossil state ; and then
proceeds to detail his investigations into the composition of fossil organic
remains.

      For the sake of arrangement, he divides fossils into two great classes,
one in which animal matter is present in various states, the other in which
it has been removed. The first class he further subdivides into three
cases : 1. Comprehending those fossils in which animal matter retains its
original condition. 2. Those in which it has been partially changed.
3. Those in which only the carbon of the animal matter remains.

      1. The following examples were given of the first case.
      Small portions of the tooth of a horse, of an ox, and a stag, from the
chalk rubble at Brighton, were submitted to the action of diluted muriatic
acid ; and after the earthy portions had been removed, the animal matter
retained the shape of the bone, was white, and of the consistence of
cartilage. Fragments of a tooth of a mammoth from Norfolk, and of a
rib of a mastodon from Big-bone-lick in Ohio, when similarly treated,

gave the same results. A thin slice of the rib exhibited under the

microscope the structure of recent bone. Fragments of a stag's rib and
horn, of an ox's head, and the tusk of a boar, found near the Bank of
England, associated with Roman implements, retained their animal matter
unaltered. Small portions of a Terebratula and of two species of Productae,
from the Silurian rocks of Malvern, were placed in very diluted muriatic
acid ; and when the earthy portions had been removed, small flocculi of
animal matter, resembling the recent membrane of a shell, floated in the

solution. A minute fragment of Asaplius caudatus yielded little shreds of

animal matter. The experiments on the shells were repeated several times
with the same results. Under the microscope these fossils exhibited also
the structure of recent shells.

      2. The second case in which animal matter has been partially changed
was illustrated by the following experiments : Portions of a stag's jaw
144         APPENDIX.                                           [No. I.

from the Brighton chalk rubble, of a fish-bone, and a shark's tooth from
the London clay, when dissolved in diluted muriatic acid, gave only a
brown powder ; and the animal matter of a fragment of the humerus of a
mastodon from Big-bone-lick exhibited but      little flexibility, and was
easily torn, particularly in the longitudinal
                                               direction. It was found

impossible to make sections of the jaw-bone of the stag or the humerus of
the mastodon for microscopic observation. Part of a human parietal bone
found upon the site of the cathedral of Old Sarnm, and human bones
obtained from the churchyard of St. Ch'ristophe le Stocks, on part of
                                                       to have had their
which the Bank of England stands,  were   ascertained
animal matter reduced to the same  state  as that of   the stag's jaw. A

fossil oyster from the Isle of Wight, when placed under the microscope,
showed black spots over its surface, and the structure of the shell was

apparently destroyed. A fragment of a Pecten from the lias also exhibited

opaque spots. Part of an ammonite when dissolved left a substance

resembling sepia.
      3. The third case, where only the carbon of the animal matter

remains, was explained by two series of experiments, one of which
proved it to be associated with bitumen, and the other that it existed
by itself. The scales of Dapedium politum and other fishes from Lyme
Regis, when acted upon by acid, left carbon undissolved ; and when heated
under a test-tube gave a considerable quantity of bitumen.
      Portions of the bones of the Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus from the
lias yielded a black residuum, which deflagrated with red-hot nitre, and
the resulting mass gave a precipitate with chloride of calcium. To prove
that the carbon was a portion of the bone and not an adventitious

ingredient, a section was made, and the greatest quantity of carbon was
found in the thickest part ; and an analysis showed that the proportion of
carbon was about the same as in the animal matter of a similar mass of

recent bone. A still further proof was adduced, in no gelatine having been
detected after thirty-six hours' boiling of a fragment of the fossil. A

section of recent bone displayed, when carbonized by heat and charged
with crystals of alum or a composition of whiting, a similar appearance in

the arrangement of the carbon as in the fossil bone. No bitumen was

given off, when fragments of these bones were acted upon by heat under a

test-tube.

     With respect to the second great class in which the animal matter

has been removed, the following cases were mentioned : Portion of the

external and internal parts of a mammoth tusk from Siberia did not

blacken by heat, and dissolved completely in muriatic acid. The internal

part of a tusk from Ohio gave the same results, but the external part was

found to contain a considerable proportion of animal matter. In bones

from the crag, the animal matter had been abstracted. Human bones

which had been long buried were found to be in the same state.

     The paper concluded with the following remarks : As the different
states in which animal matter is found in fossils pass insensibly into each
other, and as many of the changes occur in churchyard and other bones,
it follows that no extraordinary circumstances are requisite to produce

these alterations, but that they may be effected by the ordinary processes
of putrefaction. Even the carbonization of animal matter may be

accomplished by similar processes without the aid of heat, as bones
No. II.]  APPENDIX.  145

become black by being macerated too long. It is also to be observed

that the parts of animals preserved in the fossil state are those which

longest resist putrefaction. It having been likewise shown that the degree

of change does not depend upon the age of the bed in which the fossil
occurs, it is a curious subject of inquiry for the geologist to ascertain how
far the conditions necessary to putrefactive air, a certain temperature and
moisture, were present in those strata in which the change has been great ;
how far they were absent in those in which the change has been small.

                                        No. II.

ON THE CHEMICAL NATURE OF THE EXTERNAL ENVELOPE
     OF THE FROG'S SPAWN. By ALFRED SMEE, Student of King's

      College. (' London Medical Gazette,' May 26, 1838.)

THE nature of the envelope of the spawn of the frog does not seem to
have been investigated chemically, some authors stating generally that

it is of an albuminous, others that it is of a gelatinous nature. To me,
however, it appears to be neither of the above substances, but rather a

form of mucus, as the following observations show :

     1. When the envelope is separated from the ova, it gradually sinks

in water.

     2. It is not soluble either in hot or cold water, but swells considerably

when first placed in it, after which it may be dried without losing any of
its former properties, for on the addition of water it will again swell to its
former size and appearance.*

     3. When portions of the external covering were boiled in water, it was

not dissolved, nor was there any coagulation.
      4. When the spawn was treated with nitric acid, there was no coa-

gulation, but after a short period the external covering was dissolved,
leaving the ova.

       5. Sulphuric acid had the same action on the spawn as the nitric.
       6. Muriatic acid, like the preceding acids, did not coagulate, but
dissolved the envelope.
       7. Acetic acid, even when pretty strong, produced little or no effect
on the spawn.
       8. The action of the oxalic acid was found to be the same as the
acetic acid.
       9. The envelope was then treated with a solution of caustic potash,
when it was dissolved.
     10. Ammonia produced apparently no effect on the envelope.
     11. When the ova were treated with alcohol, no coagulation ensued,
nor was the envelope dissolved.
     12. Tincture of galls was also found to produce no effect on the
envelope.

     * It does not appear, after a long time, to be dissolved, as after five or six

 weeks ; but probably here decomposition may, in some manner, alter its nature.

                                                                                           L
APPENDIX.                                                [No. II.

13. When the ova were placed in a solution of prussiate of potash, no

coagulation or other change ensued.
      14. When the envelope was placed in a strong solution of corrosive

sublimate in alcohol, no change took place.
      15. Solutions of muriate of ammonia and common salt produced no

change.

      16. The solution of the envelope in nitric acid was treated with
ammonia when it was not again re-precipitated.

      17. The solution was then treated with potash, when the result was

the same as before.

     18. A solution of tannic acid gave a white precipitate with the acid

solution.

     19. A solution of gallic acid failed to give a precipitate with the

solution.
      20. When the acid solution was neutralized and treated with ferro-

cyanates of potassa, no change ensued.
      21. The acid solution was found to give no precipitate with acetate

of lead.
      22. The gelatinous, or rather the mucous envelope, was found to be

neutral, neither changing the colour of litmus-paper to red, nor restoring
reddened litmus-paper, and it was also found to have no action on

turmeric paper.
      From these experiments it is decidedly proved that this covering is

neither albuminous nor gelatinous : for had it been the former, many of
the above tests would have coagulated it ; and had it been the latter, water

would have dissolved, and tincture of galls had a sensible effect on it, &c.
The nearest animal product then, which it approaches in its general
characters, is mucus, which is known to differ in different situations of

its secretion.

      This mucous envelope is found to be a product exclusively of the
oviduct, for the ova at no period of their existence in any way possess it,
the proof of which is obtained from killing a frog just before spawning is
expected, when the ova in the ovaries will be found to have no covering,

and when placed in water do not swell out. Those ova, however, which

have found their way into the oviduct possess the mucous covering, and
when placed in water do swell out. The oviducts do not form the mucus

Isuddenly when the ova are about to be discharged, but keep forming it for

a considerable period, as have found the oviducts to be distended with it

six months at least previous to the period of spawning, and even immediately
after the ova have been discharged are not entirely free from it, though
they are much contracted in size. That the substance contained in the
oviducts and the envelope of the ova after their discharge is identical,

is proved by the following experiments :
      1. When a portion of the oviduct was placed in water, it swelled as

the envelope when first excreted ; and if a frog before spawning be killed
and cut open, and then placed in water, the contents of the oviducts will

swell to an almost incredible size.         were placed  in acid,  they
      2. When the contents of the oviducts

dissolved, and did not coagulate.
No. III.]  APPENDIX.  147

                                    No. III.

ON THE FORMATION OF MOULDING TABLETS FOB FRAC-
     TURES. By ALFRED SMEE, Dresser at St. Bartholomew's Hospital.

       (' London Medical Gazette,' February 9, 1839.)

THE importance of a substance that can be moulded accurately to any
part of the body at a moment's notice, must be admitted by every member
of the medical profession, yet many difficulties attend the formation of a
composition which shall at the period of its application be so yielding and
soft that it may take an accurate cast of any part, and when dry shall still
retain the form given it, and become sufficiently hard to resist external
impressions, and at the same time shall be tough, elastic, and devoid of
brittleness and much flexibility; and further difficulties present them-
selves, where the capability of its being quickly dried is required. The

Iadvantage of lightness and cheapness is also a great desideratum.

      As had frequently noticed that the composition of gum-arabic and
whiting, when dry, possessed great hardness and toughness, and yet was

Iso free from brittleness that it could scarcely be pounded in a mortar,

   was determined to ascertain how far it would answer to make tablets

which might be used to form extemporaneous splints.
      For this purpose a piece of coarse sheeting was copiously brushed

over on one surface with a thick solution of gum, after which it was

covered with a composition made by rubbing whiting with mucilage, con-
tinually adding the powder until the whole was of the consistence of a
thick paste; a second piece of sheeting was now rubbed over on one
side with the solution of gum, and the moistened side applied upon the
composition with which the piece of sheeting had been covered, and we
thus had two thicknesses of sheeting, with an intervening layer of the
composition of mucilage and whiting, the thickness of which may be
increased or diminished as strength or lightness is desired. The whole
was then dried, and formed a tablet about the thickness of slight

pasteboard.
       This experiment succeeded beyond my most sanguine expectations ;

for whilst the tablet remained dry it was exceedingly hard, and, when

sponged over with a little warm water, became so yielding that, by mould-

Iing it with the fingers, a cast could be taken of any part of the body. The

hand and knuckles were defined with great accuracy, and succeeded by a

little management in taking a cast of the greater part of the face. It is

sometimes advisable not to allow the substance to dry upon the part on
which it is moulded ; but after the depressions and elevations have been
traced with the fingers, it should be carefully removed and partially dried
before the fire, and as soon as the texture is sufficiently dry to retain its
shape it may be placed near a stove, or even on the hob of a grate, without

fear of corrugating or becoming otherwise deformed. In most cases,
however, this drying is quite unnecessary, it being requisite only to
envelope the moist tablet with a bandage. A cast thus taken is extremely
hard and tenacious, so that when not much thicker than a wafer, it may be

 struck violently and repeatedly against any hard substance and not be

destroyed. It possesses but slight flexibility, and after being bent returns

                                                                                        L2
148                               APPENDIX.                         [No. III.

Ittntsoohteaesintsbscebeecp,tsorotemrvnmbtiohinuiognesuhodgrtfhobwtbremrioitt,hkseeaslndehdcuov;triwesaadaibnn,bgidllbei,tuyclta.toosnntsoltWiynrd,yeehritaivlabsappltrepoioesiunsaeserlesasdssceetoaiscmsriocttphyho.eesxiotcaifeoIdtUnavseaisnmnttniaonegauiseltodhritedonherfgarll.tiiagstblhhualatbse--tt

Idescribed.paragraphs  here follow of other ways for making these
       [Several
tablets, which omit here.]        and many others that were tried,  few were
      Of all these preparations,
applicable, and none in all respects equal to the  composition of gum
and whiting, both of which substances are always   easily obtained, and

have the additional advantage of cheapness. The solution of gum which
           most adapted contained 10 or      12 ounces of gum to the   pint
was found  As far as regards the nature      and texture of the cloth
of water.                                                              it is

to be remarked that linen is stronger  than cotton, and less liable to be
torn, and therefore to be preferred.     Of the various kinds of linen,

none moulds so perfectly as moderately coarse old sheeting ; for when the
tablets were made of finer Irish, they were inferior in this respect. The
application of these tablets is rather extensive ; they may be used with
great advantage for all fractures of the rnetacarpal bones, also for those of
the forearm, or even for the humerus. When the humerus is fractured, the
method which has been adopted is to cut a piece of paper somewhat into
the shape of the required splint. It should cover a portion of the pectoralis
major, and extend as high as the bend of the neck, and include the whole
of the scapula. From this broad plate a piece descends to the bend of
the elbow, and should be sufficiently wide to cover about two-thirds of
the outer part of the arm. The paper is then placed on one of the
prepared tablets, which is cut to a similar shape. The piece thus prepared

is moistened until it becomes perfectly soft, and it is then moulded on the
arm and neck. From the general shape of these parts, there will be found

a superfluity of substance about the deltoid, which must be pinched up
and turned down so as to form a fold over the other part. The splint

then may be in a degree dried, and its inner surface lined with lint. The
whole is to be enveloped in a starched roller.*
     This mode of proceeding may appear tedious, but it is a source of
much comfort to the patient ; for whilst the upper arm is enveloped in this
hard case, so that it is quite immovable, the forearm and hand may be let
loose, and the patient may in some degree enjoy the use of them. The
benefit of this mode of treating fractures is not confined to the patient
only ; it lessens also the labour of the surgeon : for when the injured limb
is once put up in this manner, it requires no further attention for days,
weeks, or even till the cure is accomplished. Its application to chronic
diseases of the joints will be found particularly useful. In these cases two
lateral splints are to be formed, and enveloped in a starch roller. It is
hardly necessary to add that in fractures of the lower jaw it must prove a

valuable auxiliary. Great, however, as these advantages may be, perhaps
they are trifling in comparison with the importance of its application to
simple fractures of the leg. The mode of treating these fractures at

     * The roller is merely soaked in boiled starch and wound up in the usual
manner before it is applied.
No. III.]  APPENDIX.  149

St. Bartholomew's Hospital has been for some months the method first
adopted by Mr. John Lawrence, of Brighton. His plan was to form
two strong splints on either side of the injured leg by successive
layers of pieces of bandage, united together by white of egg and flour.

Now, as far as this method is concerned, it requires no improvement, as

durability, strength, and an accurate cast are obtained by this mode of
proceeding, and the numerous cases which have been treated by it at the
hospital show its complete success. By using the tablets formed of gum
and whiting, upon the same plan as that of Mr. John Lawrence, a great

Isaving of the surgeon's time is effected, and equal firmness and durability

obtained. The mode in which have made splints for the leg is first to
obtain the exact shape by drawing a piece of sheeting or paper round the
limb, and marking the part which corresponds to the tibia for the whole
length of the leg, and continuing the line on the foot to the extent that it
may be considered necessary to cover.* By this means, it is apparent that
the exact size of the limb is obtained ; but as the leg is to be enclosed by two
splints, it becomes necessary to divide the cloth into two, which will give
the exact pattern of either splint. These splints are to be moistened and
moulded ; and after being first lined with lint or leather, the whole is to be
enveloped by a roller soaked in boiled starch. This composition of gum
and whiting has answered perfectly in all the cases in which it has been
tried, and splints made with it are perhaps superior to the splints made
with flour and white of egg, because, when dry, they preserve accurately
the shape of the limb, and do not at all corrugate, which all compositions
of flour are liable at times to do.

      Fractures of the patella are treated in a similar way, a splint being
placed on either side of the knee, extending from about the centre of the
thigh to about the centre of the leg. The patella is not to be covered with
these splints, but a gap left corresponding to its shape, and the two pieces
or splints are not to meet accurately at any part, but an interval is to
be left of about three-fourths of an inch, or an inch, throughout their

whole extent.

      In enveloping these splints for fractures, they are not to be applied

when there is much inflammation or swelling, but the part should be

allowed first to get into a perfectly quiet state. Leeches, cold water, or

poultices should be applied, if necessary, to effect this object. In general,

a delay of a week, ten days, or even sometimes three weeks, is required, but
in some favourable cases there is no occasion to wait, and the splints may
be applied with safety and advantage on the second or third day after the
accident. This mode has also been adopted in favourable cases of com-

pound fracture, but most surgeons are agreed never to cover these wounds
with concealing bandages.

     It is not for me to expatiate upon the advantages with which this method

of treating fractures is attended, for that belongs rather to Mr. John
Lawrence as the first adapter of the principle ; but the fixing of the bones

more firmly and securely than can be accomplished by any other method,
the prevention of loss of health by enabling the patients to walk on the

     * Either splint should overlap the heel and under-surface of the foot in cashes
where they are used immediately after the accident, but where this application
is delayed this is of no importance.
150                                  APPENDIX.                                          [No. m.

fourth or fifth day after receiving the accident, and permitting them to be
moved to a situation more healthy and airy. The prevention of stiff joints,
and more speedy and final uniting of the bone, are advantages too great
to be passed over unmentioned. These benefits are likely to be enjoyed by
a greater number when the time required for the first application of the
splints is diminished, and the objection is removed of allowing the limb to

Iremain without bandages during the time required for drying the splints.

The tablets which have described possess these additional advantages,
and with them superior cheapness is also subjoined.

     [Some years later (in 1846), after gutta-percha had come into use, he
ianrvteicnlteed"  a modification of  Sthpelinabtsov"e  tablets for fractures,  and the  following
                  On Gutta Percha                      was published in the    London   ' Medical

Gazette,' the same paper in which his first invention had been made known

to the world.]

     At the introductory address to the Medical Society of King's College,
I called attention to a novel surgical application of the new material called
Igutta-percha.    have employed this substance, when rolled out into
Itablets, for the formation of splints, similar to those which described
as being made from the moulding tablets in the ' Medical Gazette ' and
I' Lancet ' for the year 1839. It has advantages over the moulding tablets

which then described, inasmuch as tablets of this material, rolled to the

required thickness, are more easily moulded into the required form when

soaked in water.

     It has moreover advantages in its being impervious to and uninjured

by water, alcohol, ether, acid, and alkaline solutions, and therefore espe-

cially applicable to interrupted' splints where an aperture is required to be

left for the application of these substances. It is not so good however as
the moulding tablet, inasmuch as it retains the perspiration, whilst the

moulding tablet transmits it. This difficulty may be overcome by punc-
turing numerous holes in the gutta-percha,             or by    lining it
thin lint, which allows the perspiration to                                    with a piece  of
                                                       escape.    If the       perspiration  is
Iretained, it irritates and excoriates the skin.
                                                       have employed this sub-
Istance for fractured limbs and diseased joints.
                                                                have also found it of
great value after the division of tendons for contractions, and in cases

where pressure and counter-pressure are to be employed, as the force may
be then distributed over a large extent of the body. The moulding tablets
for fracture are, in my opinion, not so much employed as they deserve to

Ibe; solely, believe, because surgeons do not like the trouble of their
Ipreparation. Under these circumstances, hope that gutta-percha tablets

will lead to a far more extensive adoption of this form of splint.
No. III.A.]       APPENDIX.                                                  151

                                     No. III.A.

ON THE STRUCTURE OF NORMAL AND ADVENTITIOUS
                                          BONE.

             To the Editor of the ' Medical Gazette.'

      SIE, The enclosed paper contains the results of observations on the

Istructure of bone, made at various times during the last three years. It

was read before the Royal Society last winter, and have now added here
Iand there new matter from my physiological note-book.
                                                               remain, Sir,
BANK OF ENGLAND,             Your obedient servant,

Oct. 27th, 1840.                                                             ALFBED SMEE.

      The intimate or microscopic structure of bone has been the subject of
much investigation both in this country and abroad, yet there still appears
to be much scope for further discoveries. To the uninitiated the structure
of bone under the microscope is one of the most splendid sights possible.
To the initiated, though he may often have participated in the pleasure of
examining it, yet the beautiful arrangement never ceases to afford the

greatest delight.
      The best mode of preparing the sections of bone is to cut portions, of a

convenient thickness, with a saw, and then to rub one surface quite smooth

on a hone, and afterwards to polish it upon a piece of leather ; a slip of

glass is then to be obtained, and one or two drops of balsam of Canada are
to be placed on one surface : the polished side of the bone is to be put on
the balsam, the glass is to be heated, which melts the balsam, and causes
it, when cool, to fix the section firmly on the glass. The next operation is

to polish the opposite side of the bone, and render it sufficiently thin to be
translucent, which is to be effected either by grinding it upon a hone, or,
if the section is very thick in the first instance, by filing the bone down to

the required thinness ; lastly, the specimen is to be polished as before.
Occasionally the structure is best seen by scraping down the bone, but this
is a tedious operation and seldom required.

       The sections by these processes are made extremely thin, and are now
fit for examination by the microscope. The canals of Havers are seen

conspicuously when the bone is moderately magnified. They are irregular
canals running for the most part in the direction of the long axis of the
bone, and frequently anastomosing with each other. They are frequently
seen to arise either from the external or internal margin of the bone.

       Around these canals are small irregular bodies, arranged in circles,
and having the surfaces parallel to the long diameter, looking towards their
several canals. Apart from these series of corpuscules, attached to the
Haversian canals is a row running round both the exterior edge of the
bone and the edge of the medullary cavity. These run round every
filament of the cellular tissue of bone, which, unless any portion happens
to be very thick, has more of the Haversian canals.

     A junction is effected between the corpuscules and the Haversian

canals, and also between the corpuscules and the margins of the bone, by
numerous little fine lines which communicate in every direction with the

neighbouring corpuscules. These fine lines also connect the corpuscules of
152                                 APPENDIX.                       [No. III.A.

the extreme circles round each Haversian canal with the corresponding
corpuscules of the neighbouring canal. Between the system of corpuscules
surrounding the Haversian canal there is no row taking the general
Ifdirection of the bone, as some have asserted.

           the Haversian canals are examined in a recent subject, where the
capillaries are well filled with blood, they are observed to contain vascular
tubes, and the blood can be distinctly recognized in them. To ascertain

this fact it is better that the bone be scraped, and no heat applied to fix

the bone to the glass.
     The corpuscules are arranged around the Haversian canals in a series
                                    the size of the canals :  thus  a small canal has  one,
of rows  proportionate to           it, while a large canal   has   five or six rows.
two, or  three rows round                                                              It is

to be noticed that the rows around the medullary canal and external edge
of the bone seldom exceed two or three series.

      An opinion is very prevalent amongst physiologists that these little
bodies are solid ; and many consider that they consist of the phosphate of
lime and earthy matter of bone ; but this opinion appears to be incorrect,
from viewing sections of bone under different circumstances.

     A similar opinion has been entertained of the fine lines running from

Ithe corpuscules, which have been termed the calcigerous tubes, but would

suggest the name of corpuscular lines or tubes, as the truth of this will be

shown presently.
     When a section of fresh bone is examined, these bodies appear opaque
as well as their lines ; but when a section from the same bone is thoroughly
boiled in balsam of Canada, the balsam enters the canals of Havers, the
corpuscular lines disappear, with few exceptions, and some of the corpuscules
become transparent and nearly invisible, and others partially transparent.
IThe same effect has been produced by our forefathers in their process of

embalming ; for in the tibia of a mummy which possess, the corpuscules
are transparent, and most of them are decidedly filled with a yellow matter
similar to that which exists in the blood-vessels. The corpuscular Hues

are so translucent as to be scarcely visible. In this case the canals of
Havers were also filled with yellow matter.

     When the section of recent bone is ground down to the utmost possible

limit, the corpuscules either appear as a transparent irregular oval ring, or
they have the appearance of containing some shrivelled matter in their

interior. In these cases the section of bone is only a portion of corpuscule

in thickness.
     The corpuscules with the lines are exceedingly opaque when a section
of bone is examined in which the canals of Havers are filled apparently
with Iafdiapotcheinre,sewchtiiocnh
                                    occasionally   happens after maceration.        in  oil,
                                    of bone is    thoroughly calcined, then soaked

and afterwards carefully ground down extremely thin, the canals of Havers,
the corpuscules, and corpuscular canals will be quite visible in the sub-

stance .of the bone.*

    * The labour and care required to make these specimens are very great. It

is better to calcine a thin section in a crucible, over a hot fire, then to place it in
oil, and keep it there for a very long period, when it may be fixed to the glass
with balsam of Canada. No heat should be applied, but it must be allowed to
remain till it spontaneously dries, when its thickness may be further reduced and

gently polished.
No. III. A.]  APPENDIX.  153

      When the earthy matter is removed from calcined bone, the corpus-

cular lines disappear, but the corpuscules themselres, though transparent,

are still visible.

     In these instances the examination has been made by transmitted
light; but differences, according to circumstances, are seen when the object

is viewed by light thrown on the surface. The corpuscules with the lines
appear white when a thin section is examined with a dark ground under-
neath it ; but a thick polished piece of bone, or a section of bone with a
portion of white paper underneath it, does not present these appearances.
The reflection of light from the deeper corpuscnles is the reason why the
corpuscules are not apparent in a thick section, nor when white paper is
placed underneath one of greater tenuity. Those corpuscules which present
a transparent ring by transmitted light still appear white when viewed by
reflected light, for some are seen as white rings on a black ground, and
others as rings having a little irregular white matter in the centre. The
whiteness of the corpuscules is owing to the reflection of light from
the surface of the corpuscules, whilst between them it passes to the
back, and is absorbed. The same effect is produced when a piece of
black cloth or scratched glass is viewed under similar circumstances, in
which cases the elevations on the one and the depressions in the other

appear white.

     If, however, the piece of mummy-bone before mentioned be examined
by reflected light, the transparency of the corpuscules allows the light, in

some degree, to pass, and that part which is reflected appears of the same
yellow colour as when the section is viewed by transmitted light.

       Such are the principal circumstances which modify the appearances of
the corpuscules, and which may be thus summed up : first, that the earthy
matter is associated with the animal matter, and pervades every part of
the bone, which is shown in the section of burnt bone; secondly, that the

corpuscules may exist without any earthy matter being there, as in the
cartilage of the shark, or the animal matter of bone which is left after
maceration; thirdly, that the corpuscular canals communicate with the
Haversian canal, as the specimens boiled in Canada balsam prove ; fourthly,

that the coi-puscul.es present themselves under two circumstances, for they
are either opaque, as in recent and adipocere bone, or transparent, as in
those boiled in balsam of Canada, as are also those of the mummy-bones.

     All these facts show that the corpuscules and corpuscular lines are

themselves cavities into which the various substances enter. "We have
already mentioned that, in the bones of mummies, a yellow matter is found
in the corpuscules similar in appearance to that filling up the Haversian
canals. That they are cavities is farther proved by the corpuscules
appearing as rings when the section is reduced to extreme tenuity.

       Attempts were made to fill the cavities with a coloured substance by
 various methods, such as had been effected in the bones of the mummy,

 but watery solutions penetrated only for a short distance into the Havei-sian
 canals, so that double decomposition of ferrocyanate of potass and sulphate
 of iron were found to be useless.

        Balsam of Canada and dragon's blood were melted together, and
 pieces of bone were then boiled in the mixture. On the examination of

Ithin sections of this, the Haversiau canals were found filled with the com-

 pound, but whether it entered farther could not so satisfactorily make
154                          APPENDIX.                           [No. III.A.

up my mind as to enable me to state the fact positively ; but, upon the
whole, after numerous examinations of various specimens prepared in
this manner, it may be stated that there was an appearance in those
corpuscules immediately surrounding the canals, of its having pene-

trated the cavities; but, perhaps, the facts already adduced require no

confirmation.

      Having proved by the results of direct observation that the corpus-

cules are cells, and therefore ill named corpuscules, but better cellules,
their use is the next point which demands our notice; but this will

probably be for ever theoretical. Perhaps they act the same part to
compact tissue of the bones as cells do to the cellular ; namely, that of

giving lightness without materially diminishing their strength.

     What the particular structure of the bone is between the corpuscular
lines and corpuscules there appears to be no means of ascertaining ; for

the highest power in the thinnest section only exhibits a transparent

homogeneous texture.

     Whether the corpuscular tubes contain blood perhaps we may also for

ever be ignorant, but, considering that they communicate with decided

blood-vessels, this opinion is far from improbable. It is certain they are

much too small to cany the globules, but the opinion of their being blood-

vessels may receive additional weight from the fact that in bone there are

no canals smaller than the Haversian.

     The size of the corpuscules or cellules is about equal to two or three
globules of blood ; they appear for the most part broader when viewed in
a section parallel to the Haversian canals, than when seen in a section
perpendicular to them : if it is really the depth which is seen in the
longitudinal section of bone, it follows that these little bodies are deeper
Ithan they are broad, and we have already noticed that their length is much
greater than their breadth.  conceive that the form of the corpuscules
may be exactly given by taking a piece of wood twice as deep as it is
broad, and twice or three times as long as it is deep, and then rounding off
all its angles. Sections in different planes through this would present
every form which is observed in the corpuscules.
      Thus we have seen that the structure of bone is extremely simplified,
as there is a medullary cavity from which spring the corpuscular tubes,
and three or four layers of corpuscules or cellules around it. The same is
seen with regard to the exterior part of the bone. Between these two
layers run tubes for blood, irregular as to size, frequently anastomosing
with their neighbours, and having the general direction of the bony tissue
in which they are imbedded.

      Radiatory lines are spoken of by some as existing round the Haversian
canals, but they have no real existence, and are only the corpuscular canals
or lines seen deep in the section, and out of focus ; and they are only to
be seen when these lines are opaque, and the section thick.
      The cellular tissue of bone has no Haversian canals ; for there the cells
have the same relation to the bony structure of each cell as the Haversian
canal has to the bone immediately surrounding it.

      With regard to the laminae of bone which have been described by
other authors, they appear to me to exist only as the result of the inge-
nuity of the anatomist, for we see that the shaft of a long bone consists
of a large medullary cavity, with a series of corpuscules and corpuscular
No. III. A.]                   APPENDIX.                               155

lines, and a number of Haversian canals containing blood, with, their series
                 around them. Now,     if a
of corpuscules   be torn precisely in        bone has  long undergone putre-
faction, it can                        this  manner.
                                                       It will, in fact, tear to

shreds, and a transverse section of each of these shreds shows the Haver-

sian canal in the centre, and the corpuscules around it.
                                        in every true bone of
      The corpuscules  are to be seen  bone from other tissues.  the   body, and
form a good criterion  to distinguish                                  is worthy
                                                                   It

of remark that but little difference exists between the structure of different

bones, and even the intense hardness of the temporal bone immediately

surrounding the semicircular canals presents no microscopic difference to

account for that peculiarity.

The changes which bones undergo in the interior of the earth are very
interesting. They may have their animal matter entire; they may have

the animal matter removed ; they may have the earthy matter partly

removed ; or, lastly, the animal matter may be carbonized.

      The bones which exhibit the animal matter entire are those which

Ihave lain in certain situations not exposed to the air. find them in this
Istate from Beg Bone Lick, in Kentucky ; and have sections of the bones
of the mastodon from thence, showing the structure in the most beautiful
manner. Some bones found in making a sewer behind the Bank of

England, together with Roman sacrificial utensils, were in a similar state.

In both these instances, as well as in others, the Haversian canals appeared
to be full of black matter.

    IThe relation which the proportion of animal matter bears to the

earthy, have examined by calcination in twenty different species. The
bones were all well macerated, and not greasy. The proportion in these

varies but little one way or another, and that more from the state of the

bone than anything else ; for the average is as near as possible 60 per
cent, of earthy material.

      When the animal matter is removed, we may always venture an opinion

Ithat the bone has been imbedded in a sandy or gravelly stratum. In every

churchyard with this soil that have examined, bones have been found

with the smallest trace of animal matter, and others not so far advanced

in decomposition have been noticed. Many fossil bones possess their

phosphate of lime, with so little animal matter as scarcely to be coloured

by heat. None of the bones without animal matter can by any contrivance

whatever be made to show the corpuscular structure, although the Haver-

sian canals are distinct to the naked eye, and the general appearance of

the bone is not materially altered, except perhaps being white, and of a

somewhat mineral aspect.

The next division is that in which the animal matter is too abundant,

part of the earthy matter having been removed. This condition is rare,
Iand in these cases the bone will tear into shreds, each containing its
Haversian canal and series of corpuscules.   do not know under what

conditions this takes place.

The last change is the conversion of animal matter into bitumen or

carbon. This change is common to the blue clay and blue lias, as here the

bones retain their usual quantity of phosphate of lime, but their animal

matter is converted into coal. This alteration appears quite unconnected
Iwith heat, and takes place as a spontaneous change in a moist situation,
to which no air has access.    have seen different bones in every transition
156                            APPENDIX.                            [No. III.A.

of this change from different situations ; they mostly show not only the

Haversian canals, but even the corpuscules.

     We have next to examine adventitious bone ; which may be arranged
under the heads reproduction of bone, growths from bone, and ossifica-
tions of other tissues. Of the former a piece of callus from a simple
fracture was examined, and was not found to differ in any respect from
true bone ; it had the cellules with their lines, and the Haversian canals,
precisely as normal bone. The same thing was noticed in a section of
callus from a compound fracture. The new bone after necrosis, or even
the necrosed portion, exhibited no diversity from this structure. The
reproduction of bone is particularly interesting, as the new deposit is
precisely the same as normal bone, with almost all the tissues ; the repro-
duced part widely differs from the normal tissue.

      Of the different growths from bone, a piece was examined which had
been thrown out from two anchylosed vertebras for additional strength, and

this presented the appearance of true bone.
      Hard bony exostoses were examined with exactly the same result.
      Ossifications may be divided into two classes bone of cartilages,

and bone of other tissues. Ossifications of the thyroid and coracoid

cartilage in the human subject were examined, and both presented the

cellules, and the former the Haversian canals not at all different from

recent bones.

      The human trachea is not in general sufficiently ossified to show the
corpuscules of the natural size, for in partial ossifications large cells are
seen, but a section of a small part showed these cellules of the size natural

to bone. The trachea of the macaw, and the inferior larynx of the
widgeon, which are naturally bones, also present no difference from the

general appearance of bone.

      Examinations of the structures of the costal cartilages when ossified
were attended with like results.

     The ossification in the thyroid ligament was examined, which showed

here and there the cellules.

     The fibrous membranes when ossified do not generally exhibit this
              in
structure :   of  fact, we may say never, unless they be connected  with bone.
                  ossified tendon attached to bone was examined,    which had
A portion
these cellules differing in no respect from bone.
     A section of a fibrous tumour of the uterus was examined. This had
the fibres running in the osseous matter, but no cellules nor anything like
cellules could be discovered.

     Of the serous membranes, the pleura is sometimes ossified, but that
appears to be only a deposit of irregular granules, and no structure could

be detected.

      The arterial tissue is frequently ossified, and then its appearance
is similar to that of the pleura; it displays a granular mass and no
cellules.

      Thus we may state that ossifications are of two kinds : first, that of
true bone, which, in a word, always exists when any enlargement of bone
in any way takes place, either as an ossification of the neighbouring tissues,
or in any other way. Secondly, ossification of the tissues not at all related
to bone, which presents nothing but a mass of granules.

      The structure of bone from a very old person was examined, which,
No. IV.]          APPENDIX.                                                              157

after six weeks, had made no effort at reparation, but no difference could

be detected.

     A section of a femur was examined, in which the head of the bone was

affected by scrofula, but no change could be detected in the cellules.

     A transverse section of enlarged femur had the cellules in the enlarged
part, but in this case the canals of Havers did not run in the direction of

the long axis of the bone, but ran from the exterior edge.
      The structure of bone and that of the cellules have been examined in

numerous specimens of recent bone from different parts of the body.
The long, the round, the flat, the sesamoid bones, have all received their
share of attention, and these, with macerated bones, mummies' bones, bones

altered by chemical agents, diseased bones, and ossifications connected
with cartilage or bone, possess these cellules.

      The bones of animals and of birds which have been examined also

possess them. The bones of some fish, as the sturgeon and porpoise, and
the ossific plates or the skin on the former, agree in possessing these
cellules. Even the cartilaginous fishes are not destitute of them.

      The structure of bone is not only such at the present moment, but has
been the same from the earliest period, for the mighty ichthyosaunis, the
tyrant of the water in former ages, and the vast mastodon, the giant of the
land, possessed these cellules. Although six thousand years had elapsed
before the microscopic structure of bone was made known to the anatomist,
yet in every age, in every country, geological and antiquarian researches
have revealed that the same structure has existed. The imperfection of
our instruments has been the cause of our previous ignorance, and doubt-
less there is now ten times more to be learned than is already known.

     In every case where the corpuscules or cellules exist, they can be

distinctly perceived to be hollow. Let, therefore, the universality of this

Ifact be the only apology for its communication.

      For the following measurements am indebted to the kindness of
Mr. Bowerbank :

          Haversian canals.

          Small.                        Large.
           3^3
                                         5^0 in diameter.

               Corpuscules or cellules  seen in a transverse section.

                One of the largest.                   ^j ^3One of the smallest.

Diameter ^Vs Lengthy^.                           Diameter s . Length

                                  Longitudinal  section.                              ^

               One of the largest.                              One of the smallest.

Diameter ^^ Length -^ .                           Diameter ^Ve Length

                                       No. IV.

     PHOTOGENIC DRAWING. (' Literary Gazette,' May 18, 1839.)

YAEIOTTS have been the methods detailed for the preparation of paper
which can be acted upon with facility by the powerful agency of the light
from the sun ; yet, notwithstanding all that has been written on this
158                        APPENDIX.                [No. IV.

interesting subject, the practical student in this art finds that great

difficulties occur in every department of photogenic drawing.

     In the first place, he finds that the paper which he has prepared the
preceding evening is by no means equal in its qualities, as sometimes he
may have two or three sheets very excellent, so that, when they are
exposed to the light, they become in every part of a uniform dark colour ;
sometimes, on the contrary, he finds that the paper, after it has been

similarly acted upon by the solar rays, becomes black over the greater part
of its surface, yet numerous white spots occur throughout which detract
much from the beauty and effect of drawings made with it ; and, lastly, it

occasionally happens that some sheets are not affected by the most

powerful light, except, perhaps, at a few points.
      Indeed, should the paper be good, and the drawings made, yet, with-

out the greatest care in the fixing of them, they may be found to have a
ground of an irregular tint, or they may be imperfectly stopped, and even

the colour may be altogether removed.

     To surmount with certainty these various difficulties, numerous
experiments have been performed in every department of the manufacture

of photographs, which we shall now describe ; first as regards the chemical

substances, then the paper, and, lastly, the most efficient stopping

solution.

     The various compounds of silver have been long known to be acted

upon powerfully by the solar rays: this property is possessed by far the

greater number of the preparations of that metal, yet not by all ; and
upon the former, the effect of light differs materially in its degree of

sensitiveness.

     The two soluble salts of silver with which we are most acquainted are

the nitrate and sulphate, both of which communicate to organic textures

and substances made from them a black stain when exposed to light ; but

these, neither on paper nor in combination with albumen, gelatin, gums,

or glutea, have sufficient delicacy to be applicable for the manufacture of

photogenic drawings.       of silver will be found considerably more
      The ammonia-nitrate

delicate than either the nitrate or sulphate, and may be used where
rapidity of action is not required, particularly as it lessens the trouble, by
the application of only one solution to the paper.

     The chloride of silver is the substance to which we principally look
for the ready action of the solar rays, and the modes of its application to

the paper are numerous. It is by itself very insoluble in water, and, on

the contrary, easily dissolved by ammonia; but, unfortunately, the
ammonia-chloride, of silver cannot with good effect be used for the pre-
paration of this paper, and thus we are compelled to form a chloride upon
it by a more circuitous process. This object may be effected by the
application of either chlorine, chloride of an oxide, chloride of metal, or

hydrochloric acid, first to the paper, and afterwards a solution of nitrate
of silver.

      When a nearly saturated solution of chlorine is used, it should be
applied lightly with a sponge to the paper, taking care that every part
is moistened by the liquid : the paper should then be allowed to dry,
and the solution of nitrate of silver applied also with a sponge, in a
similar way.
No. IV.]                         APPENDIX.                      159

      This form of chloride is not quite so delicate as some others, and

requires a long time to become quite black. It has its advantages from

enabling the most highly-glazed papers to be prepared with great facility
and certainty, and it becomes of a beautiful brown, which is but slightly

altered by the stopping agents.
The chlorides of oxides, such as the chlorides of soda and of lime,
....may be advantageously applied in some cases where the chlorine is useful.
          The chloride of soda, however, must not be used for absorbent

papers, such as those used in printing ; but with the glazed papers it
becomes very delicate and sensitive to light, whether it be applied before
or after the solution of silver. The strength which was found most useful

was that usually employed for medical purposes.

The solution of chloride of lime was made by adding twelve grains of

chloride of lime to an ounce of water, and allowing any insoluble part to

subside. This is found applicable both to printing and to glazed papers,

but is more certain when used prior to the nitrate of silver.
The chlorides of metals, as common salt, require more care in their

proportions than the foregoing substances ; and an experiment which was

tried, shows the absolute necessity of using an excess of nitrate of silver.

     A weak solution of nitrate of silver (twenty grains to the ounce) was

treated with excess of chloride of sodium, when an insoluble chloride was

precipitated : this was exposed to the direct rays of the sun, without the

slightest change; the supernatant liquor was then poured off, and the

precipitate well washed two or three times with distilled water, to remove

any superfluous salt which might perchance be present ; the chloride of

silver was again exposed to the light for many hours, when only a slight
brown tint was produced. On the contrary, when the nitrate of silver was

treated with such small quantities of salt that part of the solution of

silver remained in excess, the light speedily blackened the chloride exposed
               Similar experiments were tried with chlorine, chlo-
to its action

ride of lime, and chloride of soda, when excess did not prevent the black-

ening ; but when muriatic acid was used, the same phenomenon was
               Without endeavouring to explain the difference of the
observed

action of light under these different circumstances, an important practical
inference is to be drawn from them ; for if any circumstance prevents the
nitrate of silver being in excess, no action will be produced.
The proportions given by Mr. Golding Bird are evidently so designed,
that an equivalent proportion of each substance should be used; for

although he employs only a 20- grain solution of nitrate of silver to the

ounce, with a 12-grain solution of salt, yet, by using the silver twice,

it becomes equal to the single application of a 40-grain solution. To
insure success, the ratio of the chloride of sodium to the nitrate of silver
should be about one to five. As the relative proportions of these two sub-

stances are of importance, great care must be taken in the application of

the salt in the first place to the paper. A 10-grain solution of salt should

be sponged over one surface of the paper, and all superfluous moisture

carefully removed by the sponge wrung dry ; the paper ought then to be
allowed to dry, but taking care that the salt does not settle in any part,
and thereby cause an excess ; when the paper is dry, the solution of nitrate
of silver is to be applied in a similar way. An advantageous mixture
can be made of the chlorides of oxides and chlorides of metals : thus,
160                             APPENDIX.                      [No. IV.

a very excellent paper may be made by a solution containing ten grains
of salt and twelve of chloride of lime to the ounce of water.
     Dilute muriatic acid may also be used for the manufacture of the

photogenic paper, in the proportion        of about   twenty-four drops of the
distilled acid, sp. gr. 1*12, to an ounce  of water.
                                                       It may be used either on
the glazed or absorbent papers, but for the latter it should not exceed half
the strength. The same observations apply to any excess of muriatic acid
as were noticed to. apply to the fluoride of sodium. This forms a delicate
paper, and becomes of a very even colour.

     A more sensitive paper may be prepared by using the bromide of
silver instead of the chloride ; but the expense of bromine and its com-

pounds is an objection.
      -A solution of bromine in water cannot be used in a way similar to a

solution of chlorine with any good result, and recourse must be had to the
bromide of potassium, of which twelve grains to the ounce, applied in the way
described when treating of the chloride of silver, and afterwards conjoined
with a solution of nitrate of silver (fifty grains to the ounce), will be found

a suitable proportion.

     Other salts may be used besides the chloride and bromide, such as the

phosphates, chlorates, &c., but have the disadvantage of not being so

sensitive to light. A benefit, however, attends the use of the phosphates,

&c. ; for while any excess of the chlorides must be carefully 'avoided, an

undue proportion of the latter salts is attended with no inconvenience.
      The expense of the nitrate of silver renders it desirable to reduce the
quantity used ; but if a dark ground is wanted, a smaller quantity than
fifty grains to the punce cannot well be employed.
     Having considered the chemical substances which may be used for

the photogenic paper, the different kinds of paper, and those suited to
each particular preparation of silver, next demand attention.

     Papers may be divided into three classes the bibulous, the absorbent,
and the highly-glazed papers. Of the bibulous papers, blotting-paper
and tissue papers are examples ; but none of them will be found at all

applicable to the purposes of the photogenic art. These papers are made
from rags, but there are papers made from other substances, sxich as old

sacking, &c., which possess great strength, as well after they have been

moistened as before.

    IThe finest paper of this sort is called "double small ends." That

which employed, when sponged over, seemed to be equally moistened
in every part, and was found well adapted for the intended purpose, as
there was not, after being prepared with the solutions, a single spot that
resisted the action of light in any one of the sheets. There are, however,
disadvantages attending the use of this paper, for it is not so smooth as

others more highly glazed, and therefore not so well adapted for every
description of photographs.

      The absorbent papers, or the papers used in printing, possess a finer
texture than that last described ; and when they can be obtained good,
they answer very well for photogenic purposes.

thin  Of the various   papers   which have    bceaellnedtri"eddouobflethcisopdye,"scwriapstiofno,unda
      paper used for  printing   newspapers,

the best ; for the thicker papers, that have much plaster of Paris added
to increase their substance and weight, do not answer so well, as they
No. IV.]                                APPENDIX.                                   161

are apt to absorb the solutions unequally. These papers are fittest when

the common salt and nitrate of silver are used.

      The highly-glazed papers, or writing papers, require no particular

observation, for if either chlorine, chloride of lime, or chloride of soda be
used, the colour will be found uniform ; and the finer and more highly
glazed the paper is, the better will it suit the intended purpose. These
will be found advantageous, not only from possessing a smooth and

uniform colour, but also from a smaller quantity of the solution of

nitrate of silver being used in their preparation, as it is applied only on
the surface, and does not penetrate any distance into the texture. For

this latter property, paper such as the satin post may be prepared on
both surfaces, should that be deemed advisable.

The modes of applying the chemical substances to the paper have

been already noticed, and the sponge was mentioned as being the agent

employed.

The extent to which the paper should be moistened is, that such a
                                               used, that it
q" ubaenatrityouto"f   solution should    be  surface ; that  may, as artists    term   it,
                      in every part of  the                   is, that a slight  layer  of

moisture should appear at every point after the usual absorption has

taken place, and that all superfluous moisture is to be carefully removed

by a pressed sponge.

     After the paper has been prepared, it will be hardly necessary to state
that it must be kept carefully from the action of the light.

The mode of making the drawings has been sufficiently detailed in

various publications. When prints are to be copied, the printed side

must be pressed by a piece of flat glass close to the prepared paper, and

exposed to the light of the sun. When drawings of feathers or other

irregular bodies are desired, a piece of the photogenic paper is to be laid
upon any yielding substance, as folded linen, flannel, or, what is perhaps
better, a layer of sand or bran ; the object is then to be covered with a

square of flat glass, and, if necessary, pressed down by weights, and is to

be finally exposed to the light of the sun.
      The paper will be found to be most rapidly acted upon by the direct

rays of the sun, but this is by no means indispensable, as a clear sky is
very effectual, and even on a very cloudy day a delineation is produced,
only it requires a longer time. The circumstances which appear most

to retard the photogenic properties of the solar beam, are those dense
collections of smoke which hover over the metropolis when the wind has

not sufficient power to disperse the deleterious particles of which they are

composed.

      Most of the modes of preparing the paper which have been described,
are applicable to the camera obscura with a short focus; and those

prepared with the chloride of soda, chloride of lime, and bromide of
potassium, do extremely well. Its use in this department will for ever be
limited, for a portion of an object only can be represented accurately, as,
for every distance, the camera requires a different adjustment of its focus ;

so that to take a landscape a hundred different foci would scarce suffice.
For this reason, it certainly appears that the results of M. Daguerre's

experiments must be exaggerated.

The fixing of the drawings after they have been made is completely

a chemical action, and requires as much care as the preparation of the

                                                                                 M
162  APPENDIX.  [No. IV.

paper. The substances that may be employed for this purpose are dilute
muriatic acid, chloride of sodium, hydriodic acid, hydriodate of potash,
iodic acid, hyposulphites, and sulphocyanate of potash. Before using any
of these substances, the drawing ought to be soaked in common water for
a few minutes, to remove any excess of the salt of silver; the stopping
solution is then to be applied with a sponge to every part of the surface

equally.

      No particular advantage attends the use of the muriatic acid, but it
will be found to stop pretty well when in the proportion of about twenty-
four drops of the distilled acid to an ounce of water, but it is not quite
permanent. The chloride of sodium, or common salt, is very effectual in
stopping any further action of the light, as drawings fixed by this agent
have not undergone the slightest alteration from many hours' exposure to
the brightest sunshine. When the impressions are very dark, they do not
change colour, but lighter drawings become altered to a yellowish brown :
the addition of a little sesquichloride of iron corrects this, and gives a
pink tinge to them. The solution recommended by Mr. Bird answers very
well ; it contains two ounces of salt, and one ounce of the sesquichloride
of iron, to the pint of water. The hydriodic acid, and the hydriodate of
potash, are also very effective in preventing any further action of the
solar rays ; they turn the white parts to a pale yellow, and are very apt,
if the solution be too strong, to remove the colour of the dark ground,
especially if the drawing has been exposed to the light for only a short
time : for this reason, the solution of hydriodate of potash ought not to
exceed ten grains to the ounce of water. A solution of iodic acid, fifteen
or twenty grains to the ounce, is very excellent for stopping photogenic
drawings ; it is particularly applicable to delicate drawings of feathers,
when it is desirable not to allow them to remain long in the light ; and
at the same time the contrast of black and white heightens the effect.
Care must be taken not to apply too strong a solution, for that is apt to
whiten the dark ground, but it never turns it to any other tint.

      The hyposulphates of potash and soda have been much used for the

fixing of drawings, but, if exposed to the sun, they do not appear quite

so effective as the common salt, or hydriodate of potash ; they have the
advantage, however, of stopping them a darker colour. The sulpho-
cyanate of potassa is also found to stop these drawings ; it changes the
colour of the ground to a bi-own, and has no particular advantage.

       The different effects of these several fixing-solutions can be turned
to good account by suiting the colour of the drawings to the fancy of the
artist, or the nature of the subject ; and a still greater alteration of tint
may be produced by varying the duration of time which the light is
allowed to act upon the paper.

       Many other chemical substances have been tried for fixing the draw-
ings, but none attended with success. The following are the principal :
Chlorine, chloride of soda, chloride of lime, tincture sesquichloride of
iron, chloride of manganese, chloride of tin, chlorate of potassa, solution
of iodine in water and in alcohol, carbonate of potash, hydrocyanic acid,
dichromate of potash, biborate of soda, oxalate of ammonia, fluate of
ammonia, benzoate of ammonia, succinate of ammonia, phosphate of soda,
gallic acid, arsenite of ammonia, and sulphite of soda.

      Should it from any cause be thought desirable to remove from the
No. IV.]                                    APPENDIX.                          163

paper the colour which it acquired by light, this may be performed either
by a strong solution of corrosive sublimate, which will render the paper
                          strong solution    of hydriodate of potash, which
quite white, or    byIfa  to the saturated  solution of corrosive sublimate a  gives
it a yellow tint.                                                              little
gum be added, it may be used with a quill pen, either to prevent the
action of light, or to make white lines or marks after the action of the
solar rays. Drawings may be made with great effect in this way, on
paper previously exposed to the sun ; and this is by far the best mode of

proceeding, when naturalists or others are desirous of circulating a few
copies of any delineation among their own friends ; for, as the white parts
are exceedingly diaphanous, and the black impervious to light, the draw-
ings made by this means are much more distinct than those made by the
ordinary described processes. This mode will be found exceedingly valu-
able where a few copies of any drawing of machinery are suddenly wanted
for estimates of prices or other causes ; and the strongest light will never

affect the original drawing.

      By the common method of making photogenic drawings, should any
be imperfect or otherwise damaged, it will be better to expose them freely
to the action of the sun ; by which means a uniform black ground will be

produced, which will be suitable for the use of the corrosive sublimate :

and thus any waste will be prevented. A thin paper, which should be

slightly moistened before use, is most applicable to this mode of drawing.
The photogenic paper may be blackened either by a dilute solution of
protosulphate of iron, or by hydrosulphate of ammonia.
      The principal points in every department of the photogenic art have
now been described; and if the minutiae which have been detailed are

strictly followed, and the preparation of silver suited to the kind of paper
as here laid down, the student in this interesting and new field of science
will be enabled not only to prepare his paper, but also to make and fix his

drawings with ease and certainty.

An omission was made in the paper on Photogenic Drawing, which
Iwas inserted in the last Number of the Literary Gazette; for, whilst

treating of the ammonio-nitrate of silver, forgot to mention the pro-
portions which were found most suitable : this may seem unimportant in

a paper which is not very sensitive, but, as the ease and certainty of its
preparation, as well as its cheapness, exceed all other described papers, it
possesses a particular claim on our notice. Twenty grains of nitrate of
silver are to be dissolved in an ounce of water ; then a few drops of
ammonia are to be added, which at first throws down a considerable
precipitate ; this, by a further addition of ammonia, redissolves, and the
solution becomes quite clear, when it will be ready to be applied by a
                                       The  most suitable paper for this
sponge     ttoheth"e dopuabpleer.  copy."   The whole cost of photogenic  preparation of
silver is                                                                 paper does not

exceed, by this process, one penny for a sheet equal in size to large

foolscap, which, if bought of vendors, would cost between one shilling and
fourpence and four shillings. The cost of all other papers does not exceed
twopence-halfpenny the sheet, except that prepared with the bromide of
potassium ; which, for the same quantity, would be about one penny more
expensive. The preparation of paper suitable for the use of the corrosive

                                                                          M2
164           APPENDIX.                               [No. V-

asiaattrunravebatneollisormmypgthoaayterrtheeewinanteciitstahipsosaainltsypeiletoltcrhmhfmeiwatnhodgigertesehla;lsisgeastimhxh. 2eetp0cluA-eowgt,fnrehadfitiothneererornphsosoaeurgrlrnuetlr.asteisioqstonuD,fiircrsoatoihnfwvoegenninrlipeytgndarosanpttweeicemcrieetahosadsfhreaeabsr,sliyialnhvcaoetkoltwrsh,oevsivsaapecnrownrrdne,iagspyheent,xohpoitabnovveustseoeort
my paper; for the hyposulphates, instead of the hyposulphites, are there

mentioned as stopping agents.

              No. V.

THE PRINCIPLE, CONSTRUCTION, AND USE OF SMEE'S
     BATTERY; ITS VARIOUS FOEMS, WITH FULL DIRECTIONS FOR

      ITS MANIPULATION, MORE ESPECIALLY IN THE PROCESSES OF
      ELECTRO-METALLURGY. (Transcribed from Paper read at the Society
      of Arts, June 1st, 1840, and from Smee's 'Elements of Electro-

      Metallurgy,' &c.)

THE most valuable instrument which chemists employ for their ana-
lytical experiments is, no doubt, the galvanic battery ; but so much trouble
attends its use, that, except in the laboratory of the professed chemist, it

Iis not employed to any considerable extent. Experiencing this incon-

venience in the experiments which conducted on the red ferrocyanate of
potash, it became a matter of the gi*eatest importance to ascertain how far
a battery could be constructed, that at once should possess a capability of

being used at a moment's notice, and have besides considerable power

united with cheapness of action, and, at the same time, without the

necessity of much laborious cleaning after its employment.

    IAfter experimenting with the batteries before known to the public,
became convinced that it was of the highest importance to supersede the
necessity of diaphragms, attended as they are with continual trouble and

expense ; and as the power of the battery seems to depend upon the
facility offered to the evolution of the hydrogen and preventing its
adhesion to the negative metal, whereby it is coated as with a varnish, and

Ithe action almost entirely destroyed, all my experiments were directed to
this object.  first perceived that the gas was not evolved equally from

Ievery part of the surface of a smooth piece of platinum, but chiefly from
the corners, edges, and points. Following this hint,  roughened the
metal with sand-paper and found the evolution of the gas to be increased ;
Iand when the surface of other metals, as silver or iron, was roughened by

some acid, found the gas also to be much increased. Moreover, zinc

shavings, which present the singular anomaly of having one surface ex-
tremely bright and the other of a delicate frosted appearance, show this
property well, gas being freely given off from the rough, but adhering
firmly to the bright surface. The same differences are also observed when

rough and polished steel are employed. These experiments induced the
idea that spongy platinum, which may be considered as a mass of metallic
points, would be very efficient in forming a galvanic circuit ; and on trying
No. V.]  APPENDIX.  165

the experiment, the quantity of hydrogen evolved from a minute portion of
this substance, when touched with a piece of zinc, was truly astonishing.
The mass in this state was so fragile that the hydrogen disintegrated it
almost instantaneously, showing that in this form it could not be used for

a voltaic battery.

    IMy next experiments were to coat other metals with this finely-divided

platinum; and found that platinum, palladium, or silver, answered
admirably for the reception of it, and similar help was afforded to the
evolution of the hydrogen, as the contrast between the gas given off from
the smooth metal and rough metal forms a most striking experiment.
Other metals received the platinum with advantage ; as plated copper or
iron, and even charcoal, was benefited to a similar extent.*

      The metals thus roughened by platinum have, in addition to their

power, some properties which are very interesting: thus, when a piece of
the prepared metal is placed in dilute sulphuric acid and touched with a
small rod of zinc, gas is not given off from its whole extent, but only from
the space of a small circle ; and when contact is completed with a smooth
piece of platinum, the gas will not be given off from the latter, but will
travel principally to the rough portion, there to be evolved. This curious
experiment affords a marked difference from those cases where the hydro-
gen is absorbed, as when a piece of silver is touched with a rod of zinc in
dilute sulphate of copper, for in this case an immense circle of copper will

be thrown down.

      A difficulty now arose in this stage of the proceeding, for the finely-
divided platinum was so easily rubbed off that it could not be practically

used with advantage. However, when the silver or other metal was first
roughened by the removal of the surface by an acid, then the adhesion was
so great that a piece of platinum thus prepared was sent accidentally to
the instrument-maker, where the workman mistook the finely-divided
platinum for dirt, and could only remove it with sand-paper.

     It now became desirable to ascertain the power of metal thus prepared

relatively with the other batteries, and also with metals uncovered with

the finely-divided platinum ; and to make this comparison, I perceived that

 considerable difficulty occurred, for as this preparation of the metals in-
creases the quantity, but does not interfere with the intensity, a fair com-
 parison cannot be made where there is any impediment or difficulty to

Ibe overcome, unless that difficulty be superseded by increasing the number

 of cells of the battery : and therefore, had at first taken the decomposi-

Ition of water as the test for my numerous experiments, they would have

 been attended with an immense expense ; had taken the heating of wire

Ias my test, that would also have been uncertain, according as the heating

 of large or small wires was estimated, but considered that a close rela-

 tive estimate of power could be ascertained by the magnetical effect ; for
 by using large wires round the temporary magnet, but little impediment
 was offered to he current, and thus the quantity, independent of the in-
 tensity, could be accurately ascertained ; and in repeating my experiments,
 at different times, on the same magnet and with the same surface of like

       * Charcoal and plumbago might be considered to afford points enough for
the escape of the hydrogen, but to these there is great adhesion of the gas.
166                         APPENDIX.                                                                                                      [No. V.

Imetals, found that they coincided with remarkable accuracy, and only
Isogunrepeaptco,ertlledwdaesteevrreemnqiunbierydedatofosmrasatchlelertmaeixanpgentrehimte edwnitsi.tthanclTaehrgoaeutgwwhirhetishc,he   weight, which was
                                                                                                                                       was inconveniently
                                                                                                                                        a small but lesser

weight was attracted.                of like surface of metal with the                                                                                   same
      The following are the results

metal :                                                                                                                                Layers of paper.

         Smooth silver, supported keeper through .                                                                                     .2

         Smooth copper                             ....                                                                                9
         Silver heated, quenched in acid                                                                                               9

                   surface removed by nitric acid

         Iron rough                                                                                                                    6

         DanielFs battery

         Platinized silver                                                                                                             20

                       iron, two or three varieties . . ,. . 20

                         platinum                  ...                                                                                 18
                                                                                                                                       26
         Grove's battery                                                                                                               30
                     platinized platinum                                                                                               12

         Plain platinum heated, quenched in acid

      By these experiments we see the great advantage of the rough metals
and those covered with platinum over the smooth metals and Daniell's

arrangement.
     The only metal which may take the place of finely-divided platinum is
palladium, but probably rhodium, iridium, and osmium would have the
                         are precipitated in a fine black powder by zinc.
same property, as they
The cause of this black  colour is not at all evident ; and the form of the

black deposit has eluded not only my own but the observation of others,
although aided by the microscope. Probably, however, the colour is owing
to the particles being too small to reflect the light, as is said to be the case
with a specimen of quartz in the cabinet of the Duchess of Gordon, but

this is merely hypothetical.
      We have now seen that platinum, palladium, silver, plated copper, or

iron, are suitable for the finely-divided metal, and these are to be first
roughened, the two former with sand-paper, and the three latter with a
little nitric acid, which is to be again cleaned oft7 by washing. The metals
are then to be placed in any convenient vessel with a little dilute sulphuric

acid, to which a small quantity of nitro-muriate of platinum has been

added ; a porous tube or paper bag, containing a piece of zinc, with more
dilute sulphuric acid, is also to be placed in the vessel, when, as soon

as the circuit is completed, the platinum is precipitated on the metal
placed for its reception. The cost of this process will be best under-
stood by mentioning that the assayers sell one ounce of the prepared

silver for one shilling above the price which is charged for the silver

alone.
      The zinc which is used for the battery should be the best thick rolled

zinc, as this is far preferable to the cast zinc, and it is to be amalgamated
with mercury aided by dilute sulphuric acid ; for the application of this
process to the zinc of my battery will be found, unlike other batteries, not

to require repeating.
No. V.]                                 APPENDIX.                                 167

   The form which is most suitable for the battery appears to me a
matter of fancy rather than of importance one circumstance alone being

requisite ; that is, if we are desirous of obtaining the greatest power with
the utmost economy of silver, it is requisite that every portion of silver
should be opposed to a piece of zinc, but the size of the latter, within

moderate limits, is but of little consequence.* Thus, if we use the many-
celled porcelain trough, it is better to surround the silver by zinc in the
                                        surrounds              the zinc in
Isfamtehewacyircauslathr efocromppebre   adopted,              a piece of    the  old Woollaston battery.
                                                                            zinc  should be placed in the

interior as well as the exterior of the cylinder, as by that means both sur-

faces of the silver are brought into action; if the Cruikshanks be adopted,
one surface is necessarily lost, but in this case plated copper answers

sufficiently well, as the edges are sunk into the cement which, if exposed as

in the other forms, are apt to have a portion of the copper dissolved, which
is again deposited on the silver, and is liable to become oxidized and be

detrimental to the power of the battery. The closer the zinc can con-
veniently be 'brought to the other metal, the more favourable will it be.
   Whichsoever form is adopted, the power will depend on the series and
size of the plates. For decomposition of water and most other purposes,
it is better to have twelve pairs of plates and then to increase their size.
The battery having twelve 5-inch plates, which was exhibited to the Com-

mittee of the Society of Arts, gave off fifteen cubic inches of mixed gas in
the first minute, and showed great calorific power by immediately burning

stout steel music wire.
      The duration of the action of the battery will depend, like a fire, upon
the quantity of fuel supplied to it in the first instance, for, as there is no
local action, it follows that the solution of the zinc will be exactly propor-
tionate to the power produced ; and for this reason, when the battery is
Irequired to continue in operation for a long period, as in the method

which detailed elsewhere for the production of electrotypes, a larger
receptacle for acid should be employed, or a contrivance can easily be

adopted to carry off gradually, by means of syphon tubes, the saturated
solution of sulphate of zinc, whilst at the same time dilute acid is supplied

from another tube.

     A galvanic battery thus constructed owes its increase of power to the
mechanical evolution of the gas ; and as the experiments of Faraday have
Ishown that the                         in
                                        of
have ventured
          source         of power                              any voltaic pile   "isChcehmemicioca-Ml eacchtaionnic, al
          to call        my form                               apparatus the

Battery."
      To those versed in electrical science it may be needless to mention
that, this form of battery simply increasing the quantity of electricity, it

is most important that large communications and large wires should be
used in its construction, or else the whole of the additional power might

be lost.f
      The advantages of the Chemico-Mechanical Battery are, the cheap-

a      *  Ictyliisndofergroeaf tsidlvisear.dvanAtagceertation  employ the zinc too small, as a simple rod to
   large                                                        quantity of zinc seems absolutely necessary

Ito elfcit the full power of this arrangement.

     f This have actually known to be the case ; the power of the battery being
almost destroyed by the use of small wires and small connexions.
168                  APPENDIX.                           [No. V.

ness  in its employment, and its requiring        not only less manipulation
than  any other battery, but also less cleaning.
                                                    It can be put into action
      tmhWeohnmeepnonstisn'sestshneoctoifclnuesi,did,aenritadb,wlaeifltlepbroewhqeaur.vieint Igttilbnleeceiotnhmeumrseugdni,vicecasatinoofnfbsepoaiassroenroemuaasddilefyu, mlaaneidds
at a
by.

will
nor requires the aid of strong acids, and but one fluid is employed ; and,
lastly, the amalgamation of the zinc does not require to be renewed. Such
                    advantages of this     battery, and   they appear to be suffi-
Iare the principal                          application
                   to the very extensive   understood    whieh it has met with ;
cient to entitle it    wish to be clearly                that it does not possess
but, in conclusion,
the 'absolute constancy of Daniell's, or the intensity of Grove's battery.

      Smee's Battery was invented through noticing the property which
rough surfaces possess of evolving the hydrogen, and smooth surfaces of
favouring its adhesion.

      " Thus, whatever metal we use for our negative plate, we take care
that it be roughened, either by a corrosive acid, as iron by sulphuric acid,
copper and silver by nitric acid, or mechanically, by rubbing the surface
with sand-paper. Even by these means the metals are rendered much
more efficient; but, to take advantage of this principle to the fullest

Iextent, cover platinum with finely-divided black powder of platinum by
Igalvanic means ; that is, place the platinum as the copper is placed in a
IDaniell's battery, but, instead of employing sulphate of copper in the

outer vessel, use a small quantity of nitro-muriate of platinum, so that
the finely-divided metal is thrown down on the sheet platinum previously

roughened by sand-paper. In this way it was also placed on palladium,

silver (roughened by nitric acid), plated copper, iron of every sort, and on
charcoal, with the same good result ; but no other metal was found to
answer for its reception. The metal generally employed is silver, because
of its cheapness and its not undergoing any alteration. But whatever
metal be used, the principle is the same, viz. the affording a surface to
which the hydrogen shall not adhere, but from which it shall be evolved ;
and the infinity of the points which are presented by such a surface as
above described, appeal's to be the cause of this excellent result. The pre-
paration of the silver is now made a separate branch of a trade, and perhaps
it is the first application of the decomposing power of the galvanic battery
which was publicly sold. The platinized metal can now be bought ready
for use ; but for those who desire to perform this operation a brief descrip-

tion is here added.
       " The metal to be prepared should be of a thickness sufficient to carry

the current of electricity, and should be roughened, either by sand-paper,
as in the case of platinum or palladium, or, when silver is employed, by
brushing it over with a little strong nitric acid, so that a frosted appear-
ance is obtained. The silver is then washed, and placed in a vessel with
dilute sulphuric acid, to which a few drops of nitro-muriate of platinum

are added. A porous tube is then placed in this vessel, with a few drops

of diluted sulphuric acid ; into this the zinc is put. Contact being made,
the platinum will in a few seconds be thrown down upon the surface of the
silver, as a black metallic powder. The operation is now completed, and
the platinized metal ready for use. However, iron when thus prepared is
No. V.]  APPENDIX.  169

as effectual as silver, and may be sometimes employed with advantage.
With this metal all that is required is to rub a little nitro-muriate of
platinum over it, and an immediate deposit of the black powder takes
place. Palladium and iridium are found nearly as effectual as platinum
to coat other metals with, and the platinized silver of commerce usually
possesses a considerable quantity of this latter metal. Within the last
few months an idea has prevailed in the minds of some, that wire-gauze
might be used with advantage ; but it is difficult to conceive where the
benefit would lie, for the cost of the material would be greater, the surface

for the same weight of metal would be less, and neither space nor power

gained by its adoption.
       " The liquid generally adopted to excite this battery is a mixture of

one part by measure of sulphuric acid, and seven of water, which will be
found amply strong for all purposes. When we desire greater intensity,
we can obtain it by the addition of a few drops of nitric acid ; but if too
much be used, it might attack the silver. When, however, platinized
platina is employed, the nitric acid may be used with impunity. The
electro-metallurgist will frequently find it advisable to use dilute sulphuric

                                               FIG. 8. Smee's Battery, compound six cells.

acid, only containing from ^ to the TV of the pure acid, and adding some

acid when the first is exhausted ; taking care, however, that the quantity
of acid never exceeds ^ of the original water, for any excess above that
quantity will be useless, as the liquid will then become saturated with the
sulphate of zinc. The zinc, acid, and water being severally required to
excite the battery, it is possible to regulate them that they should all be
exhausted at once, so that the zinc should neutralize the acid, and the
resulting sulphate of zinc exactly saturate the water. This, however, may

be very interesting in principle, but practically it would be impossible to

act with such precision ; yet we must never forget this fact whenever we
charg"eNoumurerboautsterieinsq. uiries have been made as to what arrangement is
best suited for this battery ; but this must depend upon the purpose
for which it is employed. For the student's laboratory the porcelain

trough of many cells appears to be best adapted ; and it is some-

times so constructed, that any number of cells can be employed,
independently of the others, as they may be required. The silver being
the most expensive metal, the zinc should completely surround it, so that
the whole of the silver may be brought into action. Where a battery is
required to continue in action for a very long time, as for days or even
weeks, a larger vessel, to contain more dilute acid, must be used : for
electro-metallurgical purposes it has been hitherto found most economical
170                        APPENDIX.                           [No. V.

to use a vessel of a size sufficient to hold liquid to last for seven or ten days.

                           The form of battery now most universally employed
                           for these purposes consists of a piece of silver (s),
                           on the top of which is fixed a beam of wood (w), to

                           prevent contact with the silver. A binding screw
                           is soldered on to the silver to connect it to any re-
                           quired object. A strip of zinc (z), varying at the fancy
                           of the operator from one-half to the entire width
                           of the silver, is placed on each side of the wood, and

                           both are held in their place by a binding screw (&),

                           sufficiently wide to embrace the zincs and wood.
                           These batteries vary from the size of a tumbler to

                           a 10- or 12-gallon vessel. In the very extensive

                           application of this battery to the arts, the little
                           pieces of zinc which remain undissolved in the
FIG. 9. Smee's Battery,    battery form an important consideration to the
      for Electrotype.

manufacturer. Some distil the mercury from them, others sell them
to the zinc works, whilst others have never turned them to any account
at all, waiting patiently in the hope that some more beneficial applica-
tion of them might be discovered. These latter have hundredweights
of odds and ends in hand which they are desirous to employ. After

Iconsidering the matter carefully, have to propose the following use
Ifor them ; in fact, make them the positive pole of a battery, by placing

them at the bottom of a vessel and covering them with mercury. A

silver wire is then placed down a glass tube into the quicksilver, so

that the wire may nowhere touch the dilute sulphuric acid with which

the vessel is filled, but simply make a good metallic communication

with the mercury. At the other end of the wire a binding screw may

be attached, for the convenience of the operator. The platinized silver
plate (s) is then to be immersed in the fluid, and placed as near to the
mercury as possible, without actually being in contact, whilst no part
of it should be more than three inches from it, as a considerable reduction

of power would then ensue. This form of battery may be fairly called the
Odds-and-Ends Battery ; and though not so philosophical an instrument

in its construction as the form last described, yet no manufacturer should

                           Ibe without one to use up the scraps from his other

                           batteries ; and must say this instrument requires
                           Iless trouble in its manipulation than any other

                           form have ever seen. An odds-and-ends com-
                           pound battery, which will only require a binding
                           screw at each end, may be made by placing the

                           mercury and zinc at the bottom of a many-celled
                           porcelain trough ; the platinized silver should be
                           cut into suitable squares, leaving a narrow slip to
                           connect it with the next cell. The strip must be
                           placed in a glass tube, or covered with any non-
FIG. 10. Smce'g Odds-and-
          Euds Battery.    conducting substance,  leaving the   end only    to dip
                           in the mercury of the  next cell.                 little
                                                               A series of
Iglasses may be used instead of the many-celled trough for some purposes.

The only objection which have found in this form of compound battery is
the possibility of the zinc in one cell being completely exhausted, when the
No. V.]                                     APPENDIX.                                171

silver wire will begin to dissolve ; in all other respects it is a delightful
instrument when you do not care about obtaining the maximum of power,
and you can obtain the galvanic principle by this means at a lower cost
than by any other way. The odds-and-ends battery is admirably adapted
for gilding and plating, or it may be employed for any operation that
requires much time for its performance. The charge for this battery
might contain one-third by measure of strong sulphuric acid, as the local
action is very trifling ; but it is found more advisable not to employ the
solution so strong, as, when nearly exhausted, the sulphate of zinc will
sometimes envelope the zinc and mercury, and prevent further action
before the top part of the liquid is fully saturated. An advantage of this
instrument is, that spelter, or raw zinc, may be used instead of manu-
factured zinc, and that no mercury is wasted, as the whole is left after the

solution of the zinc.
      " When we desire to employ a battery for manufacturing purposes, it

might be as well in some cases to remove the sulphate of zinc as soon as

formed, by means of a syphon tube passing to the bottom of the vessel,
while fresh acid is continually supplied at the top ; but this is not generally

necessary. For these purposes the battery should be so constructed, that
any of the zinc plates, when worn out, can be readily replaced. There are

many other forms which may be adopted, as the circular with the zinc
outsid"eTh; eorchitarmacatyerbiestuicseodf
                                            as a  tumbler battery.      quantity of  electricity
                                                  battery is the great
                                            this
produced, and its simplicity ; moreover, it requires but very little trouble

in its manipulation. The zinc seldom demands but one amalgamation, as

that will generally last till the metal is all dissolved. It is very important
to use for batteries zinc as pure as possible, for by that means the chance

of local action is materially lessened. The manufacturers of zinc plates
have a trick which is very fatal to this metal, for they buy up the refuse

or waste pieces which frequently contain solder, a composition of lead and
tin, and melt them with the raw zinc. This mixture always tells its tale

during the action of the battery, as a light spongy flocculent precipitate
rises to the top of the liquid, which is metallic tin, and when any particle
touches the zinc a little local battery is formed, which causes great waste

of metal.

     " In using this battery it is important that no salt of copper, lead, or

other base metal be dropped into the exciting fluid, as by that means the

silver would become coated therewith ; the plain consequence being, that
a surface of copper, instead of that of the finely-divided platinum, is
Ipresented to the fluid. From a want of knowledge of this fact, in some

who have used the battery, have seen the negative metal covered with

copper, which, finally becoming oxidated, rendered the platinum useless.
When this takes place, it is best removed by immersing the plate in dilute

sulphuric acid, to which a few drops of nitro-muriate of platinum should

be previously added ; by this process the baser metals are dissolved and

metallic platinum thrown down. Some manufacturers prefer dipping

the silver into a solution of this sort every week. In this battery the

zinc is never reduced upon the negative metal, from the sulphate of
zinc formed during the action of the battery, so long as the exciting
fluid contains any acid at all. Other interesting matter connected with
this subject will be detailed when treating of the reduction of zinc."
172                               APPENDIX.                                                               [No. VI.

     After explaining the difference between his battery and the two other

batteries, he finishes thus :
      " Professor Daniell's excellent invention being distinguished by its
constancy ; Mr. Grove's powerful battery, by its intensity ; and my own,
by the cheapness with which the quantity of electricity may be developed,
and by its simplicity. By some it (Smee's battery) has been too much
extolled, by others too much blamed. Notwithstanding the mis-state-

Iments on both sides, it has fully stood the test of time, and has been

employed by the public in a manner which had not even hoped. The
reason they prefer it for general and especially for manufacturing
purposes, appears to be, that it does not require the use of porous tubes

or of the strong acids, and that it does not give off poisonous fumes. It
usually continues in active operation for six, eight, ten, or more days,
when a sufficiency of acid is supplied to it. The zinc frequently demands
but one amalgamation ; and the time required either for setting it in
action, or for maintaining its operation, is comparatively not worth a
thought ; and, lastly, the expense of working it is reduced to the lowest

poss"ibAlelthaomuoguhntt,heboereintigcaellxyactitlyispnroopt oabrtsioolnuatetley  to the power obtained.       for
                                                                                   constant, yet practically,
the purposes of the electro-metallurgist, its constancy remains for two or
three days, or, in other words, until the battery is nearly exhausted ; and

then, to replenish the solution of zinc with a fresh supply of dilute acid

Iwill not occupy more than half a minute. In recording my own experience

of its practical, though not of its absolute constancy, can at the same
time conjoin the testimony of some of the most extensive manufacturers in

this country. By the practical manufacturer this instrument is re-charged
with acid, at intervals varying from three days to a fortnight, according

Ito the size of the vessel containing the acid. Whilst upon the use of the

battery, may state that the platinum, with proper care, never wears off
the silver, and that the platinized silver never undergoes the slightest
Ichang"eP,erohraipss                              local action.
                    affected  by  the slightest  give an approximation                           to  the  relative
                         may  be  expected to
cost of working the three batteries. In mine it is the cost of the zinc
                                                 a local action. In Daniell's battery,
dissolved by the acid : zinc      acid
it
   is

                             +
                                   +

                                         +

                                                                         -I-

                                          it
                                                   is

                                                                    +
                                                                               ++
                                                                                              +
     zinc + acid              sulphate of copper much local action. Each cell

of this, to do any given amount of work, would cost about twice as much
as mine. In Grove's battery
                                                 zinc acid nitric acid reduced by
the hydrogen          nitric acid combined with ammonia formed during the

action of the battery             extensive waste of the zinc = about three times as

much as mine."

                                         VI.
ON THE PRODUCTION OF ELECTROTYPES. By ALFBED SMEE,

      Esq., Surgeon. London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and
     Journal of Science,' April 21st, 1840.)
                       ('
                                                                                     is

                                                                                                is
THE mode of taking copies of medals by the galvanic current                                                    de-

servedly occupying much of public attention, and each striving to add
his mite to the perfection of this elegant and useful process. There are
No. VI.]                APPENDIX.                                            173

Itwo or three points to which am desirous of drawing the attention of
your readers, as they appear to open a new and important field for investi-

Igation for which have not the time at present. With regard to the
Iprecipitation of the copper, beg leave to submit a modification of a plan
Ifirst proposed by Mr. Mason, but believe also contemporaneously used by
other persons, that of making copper form the oxygen side of the battery,
which being dissolved is again thrown down at the platina or hydrogen
Iend upon the medal or cast put for its reception.
      The mode which adopt is, first to obtain a long dish or trough, and
then to place a wire in the inside along its bottom, which is connected to
the zinc of one of the cells of my battery along the opposite side of the
vessel ; a large piece of copper is placed in connection with the silver of
the battery, and a solution of sulphate of copper is then added. By this

arrangement the current is generated at the zinc, passes to the medal,

reduces the copper whilst the oxygen and acid are transferred to the refuse

copper, and dissolves a corresponding quantity of copper, and by this

means the solution is always kept saturated with the metal.
When medals are to be copied, they are singly placed in contact with

the wire in connection with the zinc of the battery, and in this way many

may be done in the same vessel, and either may be taken out and examined

without the slightest interruption to the others. The rapidity of the

pi'ocess may be increased without detriment by the use of two to six or
even more cells of the battery, as the copper will still be extremely tough.
IIt will be found that my battery will require not the slightest alteration,
except once a day, when the liquid should be changed.           have tried other

solutions of copper, such as the nitrate : but although the process is

hastened, the metal is apt to be brittle, or have other imperfections.

      When engraved     plates are  to  be copied,   the first  copy is in   "bainsstao--
rilievo, and therefore   a second   is  required to  be made    which is in

glio," and then ready for printing. Copies may even be taken of non-

conducting substances, as woodcuts, &c., by brushing them over with
black-lead, taking care that the copper wire is in good contact with the

plumbago.
      The great advantages of this mode of proceeding above all others are :

first, the quality of the copper is far better than when reduced in the usual

way as described by Messrs. Spencer and Solly this advantage is owing
to the use of the copper at the oxygen end as suggested by Mr. Mason ;
secondly, all the plates or medals, for there is no limit to the number, are
in the same vessel ; thirdly, the process may be hurried or retarded, accord-
ing as the number of plates of the battery are increased or diminished ;

fourthly, the plates will not require to be interfered with till the precipita-
tion is completely finished, aud there are even many other more trifling
advantages which it would be tedious to enumerate.

      The mode of proceeding here detailed differs but little from others
which have been described ; but these trifling differences are so important

Iin practice, that this mode will probably supersede every other. In fact,

have had the pleasure of seeing many most valuable copper-plates sub-

Ijected to this process, and the specimen which accompanies this paper

believe is the first which has ever undergone the ordeal of having the large
number of impressions, required for any publication, printed from it. Of
174                        APPENDIX.            [No. VII.

course it is a perfect facsimile, and therefore this method would be of the
greatest importance to bankers for their notes, and is far superior to Mr.
Perkins's apparatus for the multiplication of plates, because in that case
they almost invariably require to be touched up afterwards, and therefore
absolute identity is destroyed.   The cost of their manufacture would be
trifling, being merely the value  of the zinc * dissolved in the battery, and

Ia pound of zinc of the value of sixpence would produce a copper-plate

weighing about two pounds ; and trust that copper will again, from its
beauty, take the place of steel engravings.
    ISo much for the precipitation of the copper : and the next thing to

which have to direct your attention, is a mode of making copper-plate
engraving without an engraving in the first instance. This is done by
drawing upon a smooth piece of copper (such as a plate used for engrav-
ing) with any thick varnish or pigment insoluble in water, and then
exposing the plate in the usual way to the influence of the current, when
first copper will be thrown down upon the uncovered parts and will
gradually grow over the drawing, and the electrotype when removed will
be ready for printing. A practical difficulty arises in the application of

this for the arts, as unless very thick oil paint is used, sufficient depth is

Inot obtained to hold the ink. However, judging from the sharpness of

the edges of the lines, have but little doubt that this difficulty may be
overcome by those who are accustomed to drawing ; and it possesses, as
an additional advantage to its cheapness, the valuable property of not
requiring the artist to reverse the design. An opposite effect to this may

be produced by placing a piece of copper similarly drawn upon at the
oxygen end of the battery, when the metal will be acted upon, leaving a
drawing in basso-rilievo.

                                  No. YII.

ON THE FERROSESQUICYANURET OF POTASSIUM. By ALFRED

      SMEE, Esq., Surgeon. (' London and Edinburgh Philosophical Maga-
      zine and Journal of Science,' September 1840.)

THE action of chlorine upon the ferrocyanuret of potassium is a subject
of much interest      the chemist, and has not been examined to any extent
in this countiy.  to  therefore has been my endeavour to investigate this

                  It

action carefully, and to see under what circumstances the change from the
ferrocyanate into the ferrosesquicyanuret takes place ; and the methods
which are here detailed to obtain this latter salt uncontaminated with
impurities, will be found free from the difficulties and uncertainties
attending on the present mode of preparing it.
     When a current of chlorine is passed through a solution of ferrocya-
nate of potassa, or an aqueous solution of that gas is added to it in certain
quantities, the persalts of iron are not precipitated. This solution has no

       * The zinc in the fluid mi<*ht be precipitated as a carbonate, for which there
is great demand in the arts, and thereby the expense of the electrotype would
be further diminished.
No. VII.]  APPENDIX.  175

smell of chlorine, and is changed from a yellow colour to a dark red, and

deposits on evaporation red crystals. A similar change takes place when

bromine is added to the ferrocyanate, and in both cases the weight of the

entire red mass is equal to that of the yellow ferrocyanate, plus the weight
of the chlorine or bromine used, but minus the quantity of water which
the yellow crystals are known to contain. This indicates, first, that the
red crystals are anhydrous ; and, secondly, that the chlorine or bromine is
actually absorbed by the salt. The former fact is confirmed by heating
the red precipitate in a test tube, when no water is given off ; and the
latter fact is also proved by the evolution of chlorine or bromine, on the
addition of two or three drops of strong heated sulplraric acid to a few
grains of red salt.

       When heated alcohol is added to this red mass, a small portion is dis-
solved, which is again deposited when the spirit is evaporated. This salt
by its characters is known to be either the bromide or the chloride of
potassium. By this method the red ferrocyanate of potassa, which is
insoluble in alcohol, becomes purified : but this is a troublesome and
expensive process, as the bromide or chloride is but little soluble in the

spirit, and therefore a large quantity must be used.
       About half an equivalent of chlorine or bromine is required to effect

this change, and great care must be employed to prevent excess of these
substances, as they are apt to react upon a portion of the salt. The liquid
in this case contains Prussian blue dissolved, which materially discolours
the salts, and it can only be precipitated from the solution by the addition
of neutral salts, as sulphate of soda, which renders the red ferrocyanate

impure. In a similar manner, chloride of soda, as might be expected,

forms the red ferrocyanate of potassa.
       From the foregoing details a knowledge is obtained of the action of

 chlorine and bromine upon the ferrocyanate, for we have seen that chloride
 and bromide of potassium is formed, and that one-half an equivalent of
these substances is necessary for this change. Now it is manifest that
 half an equivalent of potassium is removed from the ferrocyanate, so that
 the new salt, instead of consisting of iron one equivalent, potassium two

 equivalents, cyanogen three equivalents, contains iron one equivalent,

 potassium one and a-half equivalent, cyanogen three equivalents; and
 therefore it is rightly named the ferrosesquicyanuret of potassium : that
 half an equivalent of potassium has been removed from the salt, two or

 three experiments have verified.

       The acids as a class will not effect a similar change, because as they
 combine not with potassium but with potassa, water must be decomposed,
 the oxygen uniting with the metal, and the hydrogen passing to the

 ferrocyanate, forming hydroferrocyanic acid.

      A question naturally arises whether the potassium may not be removed

Ifrom the ferrocyanuret by other processes, and we are led to try the

 action of the anions, and of these attempted to add oxygen to the salts
 by the use of nitric acid. This acid, when added in small quantities to

 the yellow ferrocyanate, acts as the other acids by liberating hydroferro-
 cyanic acid, which is speedily decomposed into a pale bluish cyanuret of
  iron. When, however, further additions of this acid are made, the potas-
  sium takes oxygen, forms potassa, deutoxide of nitrogen is evolved, and
176              APPENDIX.                                     [No. VII.

the solution becomes dark-coloured. This liquor, when neutralized with
potassa, is found to give no precipitate with the persalts of iron, but forms
Prussian blue with the protosalts of that metal. The rapidity of this
change depends upon the heat of the solution, for when warm the effect
takes place immediately, whilst, on the contrary, two or three days are
required at a low temperature. When evaporated, a large quantity of

nitrate of potassa is deposited ; and, lastly, some red crystals are fonned.
When acid is more used, the ferrocyanate is totally decomposed ; the black
mass which is the result has at first a sweet, but afterwards leaves a dis-

agreeable metallic taste upon the palate. This process can never be used

advantageously to form the ferrosesquicyanuret, from the quantity of acid
which is required, the degree of nicety which must be employed to effect

the change, and the impurity of the salt when obtained.
     The next highly-oxygenated acid which we have to examine is the
iodic : this when added to ferrocyanate of potash becomes decomposed,

the oxygen passes to the potassium to form potassa, free iodine is evolved,
and the potassa passes to another portion of iodic acid, and is precipitated

as the iodate of potassa. The free iodine can be readily removed by agita-

tion with a little ether, and in this way a tolerably pure ferrosesquicy-

anuret of potassium can be extemporaneously obtained, for the solution

contains but little iodate of potassa from its insolubility.*
     Chloric acid operates in the same way as iodic acid, but is more diffi-
cult of decomposition, and it requires the action of heat before the smell

of chlorine is exhaled and the red ferrocyanate formed.

    If chlorate of potassa be added to the ferrocyanate, and dilute sul-
phuric acid be dropped into the solution, red ferrocyanate of potash will

also be formed.
     Bromic acid will not act upon the ferrocyanate with the production of

the ferrosesquicyanuret, but acts as other acids in forming Prussian blue.

     A great variety of other oxyacids have been tried, but none were

found to part with their oxygen.
     When a large quantity of peroxide of manganese in fine powder is

added to a solution of the ferrocyanate of potash, and the mixture digested
for a considerable time, the ferrocyanate becomes converted into the

ferrosesquicyanuret, and on evaporation crystals of the most beautiful

ruby red are obtained. The salt thus      procured  appears to be very pure.
                                          added to  the solution in conjunction
    If a little dilute sulphuric acid be

with the peroxide of manganese, the action takes place more quickly, but
sulphate of potassa is formed, which is a great disadvantage.
     The last process in which nascent oxygen contributes to the formation

of ferrosesquicyanuret of potassium, is, perhaps, one of the most elegant,
Iefficient, and simple processes in the whole range of chemistry. This

mode was induced to follow from the consideration, that as nascent

oxygen effects a change of the yellow to the red ferrocyanate of potassa, a
similar change must be produced by its being subjected to a galvanic
current. Accordingly some solution of the salt was placed in a tube bent

       * This elegant process can be employed with advantage when a small
quantity of the salt is suddenly wanted, as it scarcely requires a minute to
effect.
No. VII.]  APPENDIX.  177

 like a syphon, and at the bottom a piece of tow was thrust, in order that a
 separation might so far be effected, that the solution on one side could not
 readily pass to the solution on the other. Having thus completed the
arrangement, a galvanic circuit was passed through the fluid ; when at the
 cathode, hydrogen was evolved, and at the anode no oxygen, on the con-
trary, was given off, but the solution became of a dark colour. The dark
solution was found to precipitate only the protosalts of iron, and on

evaporation deposited red crystals of the ferrosesquicyanuret, but at the

cathode potash was discovered. The rationale of this change may be
deduced from circumstances attending slight alterations of arrangement :

for if on the zinc side of the bent tube a saturated solution of the ferro-

cyanate be placed, and on the platinum side distilled water, and then the
galvanic circuit be completed, potash will appear at the platinode, and red

ferrocyanate at the zincode. On the contrary, if the distilled water is

placed at the zinc side and the ferrocyanate at the platinum side, potash is
left at the platinode, whilst at the zincode no red ferrocyanate is found,
but a substance which does not redden litmus-paper, and which speedily

decomposes into Prussian blue : this is probably ferrocyanogen. Thus it

appears that one equivalent of the yellow feiTOcyanate is decomposed, the
free potash travelling one way and the hydrof errocyanic acid the other ;
the oxygen unites with the hydrogen of the acid and sets ferrocyanogen at
liberty ; this again unites with an equivalent of ferrocyanuret of potassium

to form the ferrosesquicyanuret.
      Various other attempts were made to form the red ferrocyanate

by oxygen, such as heating it with nitrate of potassa, but the mixture

exploded at a temperature below redness.
      When a mixture of powdered ferrocyanate and peroxide of manganese

was heated together, no ferrosesquicyanuret was formed. Several other
oxides, as those of mercury, silver, tin, iron, &c. &c., were digested with
ferrocyanate of potassa, but none that were tried, except the peroxide of
manganese, formed the red ferrocyanate ; many of them were converted
into cyanurets.

     A current of oxygen gas passed through the solution of the salt
produces no alteration, showing that the gas must be in a nascent state

to cause the change.
      The next substance we have to examine is phosphorus, and its action

is somewhat remarkable ; for little or no change is effected by the addition
of an alcoholic or etherial solution of phosphorus. When a piece of
phosphorus is also placed in a solution of the ferrocyanate, or when
phosphorus is heated with powdered ferrocyanate, the sesquicyanuret is
not produced ; but if a stick of phosphorus is placed in a bottle containing
a solution, of the salt, and only a portion of it is covered with the liquor,
the phosphorus gradually burns away, the solution becomes sour and red,
and ceases to precipitate the persalts of iron. This change takes place
with a rapidity exactly proportionate to the wasting of the phosphorus ;
for if the temperature is below 45, but little action takes place, but above
60 the reddening is very speedily produced. The red solution is not to
be tested with the salt of iron whilst it is acid, for in that case a copious
greenish-white precipitate is produced of phosphate of iron ; but after it
has been neutralized with potassa, a solution of baryta is to be added, to

                                                                                                               N
178                      APPENDIX.                                  [No. VII.

throw down the phosphate, and a drop of dilute sulphuric acid may then
be added to remove any excess of baryta.
                                                          persalts  of iron,
      The solution will now be found not to precipitate
but, on the contrary, a large quantity of Prussian blue is produced with
the protosalts. The actual combustion of the phosphorus seems essential
to this change ; for if  the water in which phosphorus    has been allowed to
                         solution of the ferrocyanate, a
bum be added to the                                       similar change will

not be produced. The cause of this change appears paradoxical, for
phosphorus has in other instances a deoxidizing agency, so that a piece
placed in a solution of  either gold, silver, platinum, or copper, has the
                         it. Perhaps it depends upon decomposition of
metal precipitated upon  of phosphuretted hydrogen ; for a narrow bottle,
water and the formation
Ifto which air has but limited access, is more favourable to the change than
a wide vessel.  this explanation is correct, the action of phosphorus
must be classed with the other oxygenating substances, for oxygen, and

not phosphorus, removes the potassium.*
      No mode of abstracting the half equivalent of potassium by sulphur
is known ; for if half an equivalent of sulphur be heated with powdered

ferrocyanuret, the ferrosesquicyanuret is not produced, and the alcoholic
or terebinthine solution of sulphur, added to a solution of the ferro-
cyanuret, also failed to produce this change. Even nascent sulphur arising
from the decomposition of sulphuret of potash by an acid did not produce

any effect.f

     A current of cyanogen gas passed through a solution of the salt is
gradually absorbed, and it becomes of a very dark colour, but red ferro-

cyanate is not formed.
      Doubtless many may be surprised that the action of iodine has not

been adverted to before, and more especially that it should not have been
mentioned with chlorine and bromine, as to these it has a striking analogy
in most of its properties ; but in reality little resemblance exists between
Ifthe action of iodine on the ferrocyanate of potassa, and that of chlorine
and bromine, as we shall immediately see.  iodine is added to a solution

of the salt, it speedily becomes dissolved, the solution turning to a dark
red, and gives a blue precipitate with salts of either oxide of iron. One

equivalent of ferrocyanate of potash dissolves about one equivalent of
Ifiodine, which remains in great part uncombined in solution.
                                                                    the

solution is allowed spontaneously to evaporate, the free iodine passes off,
and a whitish uncrystallized mass is obtained which has no free iodine,
but hydriodate of potassa in its composition. This gives a precipitate

with both oxides of iron. Now there is a ready method of ascertaining
how much iodine the ferrocyanate will not only dissolve, but combine
with, and for this purpose a definite quantity of the salt is to be dissolved
in a small quantity of water, and then placed in a phial. Upon the

solution ether is to be poured, then the iodine is to be added gradually,
when as soon as the ether is discoloured the saturation is known to be

effected. Brisk and continued agitation must follow each addition of the

      * No change takes place if the phosphorus is completely under the solution

of the salt.

     t It is foreign to this paper to describe the sulphocyanuret of potassium.
No. VII.]                       APPENDIX.                    179

iodine, in order that the ether may part with any iodine previously to the
point of saturation. When evaporated to dryness, move of the iodine is
evolved, but still hydriodate of potash may be abstracted from the mass by
alcohol. When all the iodine is removed from the mass, a result which is

known by its not discolouring starch upon the addition of nitric acid, it
still retains its power of forming Prussian blue with salts of either oxide
of iron, and still presents the same indisposition to crystallize, for it
neither shows itself as the yellow nor the red ferrocyanate of potash, but

as a compound having properties intermediate with both.

When iodide of potassium is added to the ferrosesquicyanuret, iodine
is evolved, the solution loses its red colour, and the salt possesses the

characters similar to the mass obtained by the action of iodine on the

ferrocyanate of potash. Thus it is evident that if a solution of persulphate
of iron be treated with the red ferrocyanate whilst an iodide is present,
Prussian blue will be formed.

Whether this is really a mixture of the ferrocyanuret and ferro-
sesquicyanuret or a distinct compound, it is difficult to determine, but
the latter is rendered probable from its generally presenting itself as an

amorphous mass ; yet, however, when the purified mixture is dissolved
two or three times in water, a dark mass is deposited, and at last crystals

of the yellow salt are formed.
Every method which has been discovered of converting the ferro-

cyanate of potassa into the ferrosesquicyanuret' has now been detailed,
and we have seen that they may each be referred to the class of anions,

for of the cathions the powerful agency of potassium was unable to effect

this change.
    ' Upon the first formation of the ferrosesquicyanuret the colour will
occasionally be a very dark red, but this is an adventitious, not a necessary
                                          of
property ; for when prepared by peroxide      manganese or chloride of soda,
it does not possess this dark colour.     If   the red crystals be carefully

picked and re-dissolved, in no instance is this seen, and in every case where
the dark red exists it yields to liquor ammonias or potassse, with the pro-

duction of a small quantity of the ferrocyanate.

      The ferrosesquicyanuret, however prepared, has the same peculiar

properties. It has been already mentioned that the protosalts are preci-

pitated blue, whilst the persalts are not effected by this agent ; however,
the solution in the latter case is always much darkened, and after a time
a small quantity of dark-coloured substance is deposited. The mode of
preparation of the ferrosesquicyanuret does not influence this result.

     With almost every acid, especially if heat be applied, Prussian blue is
formed and hydrocyanic acid is given off ; and thus upon testing for minute
quantities of metal, care must be taken to prevent any excess of acid, as in
that case the chemist would find iron in everything he examines. With

excess of alkali, on the contrary, no precipitate of Prussian blue is pro-

duced ; and therefore if search be made for that most useful of all metals,
the experiment would declare that iron had no real existence : but if the

golden mean be employed, or the solution be but very slightly acid, the
ferrosesquicyanuret, as well as the ferrocyanuret, become most valuable
and delicate tests, the one for the peroxide, the other for the protoxide of

that metal.

                                                         N2
180                            APPENDIX.                                           [No. VII.

      The change by chlorine and bromine has been shown to result from
the abstraction of the half equivalent of potassium by the formation of
chloride or bromide of that metal, and therefore the ferrosesquicyanuret

is impure till that is removed by alcohol. We have seen also that the

change may be effected by the iodic, nitric, and chloric acids, but by these

methods the salt is also contaminated to a great extent by the nitrate of
potash, but to a much less extent with the chlorate, and scarcely at all
with the iodate ; with phosphorus the salt in a very impure state may still
be made. With peroxide of manganese, however, and the galvanic current,
it may be made of absolute purity.

      This last mode will probably supersede entirely every other mode of

Ipreparation, as with a galvanic battery a large quantity can be readily

made. The battery which have used for these experiments is the
platinized silver, which from its simplicity is so well adapted for general
purposes, and suitable for long-continued action.

                      TABLE OF DECOMPOSITIONS.

                      By Chlorine and Bromine.

1 eq. ferrocyanate )          2^^IPotassa 2            = 1 eq . red ferro-(* ron
                                                                          __
   of potassa                                                       .  'Potassium      1.

2 eq. of chlorine                                       2 eq. chloride of potassium.

Bromine acts in the same way.

                      By the Galvanic Current.

                              i* 1                      1 eq . red ferro-(* ron L
1 eq. ferrocyanate )                                f=

  ofpotassa . .)=                                   !

l2 eq. of oxygen.
                              (Poytaanss?iuemn  3          Cyanate  .       Cyanogen   3.
                                                 2                          Potassium
                                                        i              I

i eq. of hydrogen from decomposition |                     eq. of potassa.

     of water.                                             eq. of hydrogen evolved.

                                                    (

The action of the acids, &c., has been already sufficiently adverted to.

     TABLE OF PRECIPITATES WITH THE IODO-FERROCYANATE
                              OF POTASSA PURE.
     ....Platinum
                              solution red, no precipitate.
     Mercury, bichloride      a little white deposit.
                              white, becoming green.
     ......Lead               white, abundant.
     .........BSii^smveur th
     ......Zinc               white, with a little reddish tinge.
                              white, afterwards yeUow.
     .....Copper              white.

                              dark brown.
     Iron protosalts . . Prussian blue.
     Iron persalts . . . Prussian blue.
No. VIII.]                       APPENDIX.                                181

           TABLE OF PRECIPITATES WITH THE RED FEBEOCYANATE
                                                   OP POTASSA.

Gold .     n     chloride . . solution darker, no precipitate,
Platina    .     chloride . . solution darker, small crystals deposited,
                 nitrate . . . red-brown precipitate.
Palladium

                 nitrate . . .

Silver . . sulphate . . deep orange.

                 acetate . . .

Nickel           nitrate . . . red brown.

Copper     .  j  sulphate .   . yellow brown.
                 ammoniuret   . deep-greenish brown.

Mercury    .    protonitrate  .  at first yellow brown, then white, then green.
              < bichloride .  .  none.

Bismuth. . nitrate . . . pale yellow brown.

Tin. . , protochloride white, gelatinous.

Iron    .       protosulphate Prussian blue.
           . < persulphate . none, with iodide, potassium, Prussian blue.

Antimony        potassio-  .     none.
              ! tartrate

Manganese chloride               sepia.

Cobalt . chloride ,              chocolate brown.

Zinc . . sulphate                buff.

Cadmium sulphate .               pale yellow.

Curanium nitrate . .             deep red brown.

Lead . . acetate . .             solution brownish, none.

Alumina . acetate . .

Baryta           muriate
           . < nitrate . .

Strontia . nitrate . .           none,

Lime .           muriate         none.

                                  No. VIII.                By ALFBED SMEE.

ELEMENTS OF ELECTRO-METALLURGY.

THE 'Elements of Electro-Metallurgy' was first issued to the public on
the 26th December, 1840. The first edition was speedily sold off, and
the second edition appeared at first in parts, thus : the first forty pages
appeared on the 1st April, 1842 ; forty pages- more were ready on the

1st May ; the third forty on the 1st July ; the succeeding forty on the

1st August ; the fifth part, containing forty-four pages, was published
1st September ; the sixth part, to the 236th page, on the 1st October ; the

next forty pages on the 1st November, and the remainder on the 1st of
December, when all the parts were published in one volume.

      During these two years (1840 to 1842) Alfred Smee had prosecuted his
labours in this branch of knowledge to such an extent that the second
edition of the ' Elements of Electro-Metallurgy ' bore rather the feature
of a new treatise than of a second edition ; for the work had been doubled
in bulk and partly re- written.
182                       APPENDIX.                                   [No. VIII.

      The book commences with a brief but lucid exposition of galvanism,
and then proceeds to describe the most approved batteries, concluding
with a general view of the one invented by himself, which has been
employed by him in all the processes of electro-metallurgy. The second
part of Electro-Metallurgy treats of the apparatus to be employed for the
reduction of the metals ; of the substances capable of receiving the metallic
deposit ; and of the laws regulating the reduction of the metals.

      Although the laws which regulate the deposit of every metal appear
to be the same, and although they are very simple, yet they cost Mr. Smee
much labour for their development. He states them as follows :

      Law 1. The metals are invariably thrown down as a black powder,
when the current of electricity is so strong in relation to the strength of
the solution, that hydrogen is evolved from the negative plate of the

decomposition cell.

     XM W 2. Every metal is thrown down in a crystalline state, when
there is no evolution of gas from the negative plate, or no tendency

thereto.
      Law 3. Metals are reduced in the reguline state when the quantity

of electricity in relation to the strength of the solution is insufficient to
cause the production of hydrogen on the negative plate in the decomposi-
tion trough, and yet the quantity of electricity very nearly suffices to

Iinduce that phenomenon. For further information on the reduction of

metals refer the reader to the paper read before the Royal Society,

9th of March, 1843, at page 188.
      The third part of Electro-Metallurgy treats of electro-gilding, electro-

plating, &c. ; of coppering non-metallic substances, medallions, fruit,

vegetables, baskets, earthenware, &c.

     In the fourth part we learn the various applications of the reduction

of metals by galvanism : as the multiplication of coins and medals ; of
copying seals ; of plaster casts, &c. ; of the multiplication of brasses ; of
making dies from embossed surfaces ; of the manufacture of moulds from
fruits, vegetables, &c. ; of the application of electro-metallurgy to sculp-

ture and other purposes.
     Part the fifth treats of the electrotype : as the multiplication of

type ; of plain copper-plates ; of copying engraved copper-plates ; of the

multiplication of steel plates ; of woodcuts ; of the daguerreotype.
     The sixth and last part of this work treats of galvanic etching.
     Such is the plan of Smee's ' Elements of Electro-Metallurgy.' In
order to show more thoroughly how and to what extent the author of this
work contributed towai-ds the discoveries which led to the application of
Ithis science not only in this country but throughout the civilized world,
'  here transcribe its history as                        it is given  in every edition of  Smee's
                                                         extend our   inquiry into remote  periods
   Elements   hoafvEelencottr,o"-Mheetsaallyusr,g"y.t'o
        " We

to trace the history of the arts of working in metals by the galvanic fluid,
for truly it may be said that this art belongs to our own time, and is a
characteristic of the present age. Whilst, however, we pursue our investi-
gations into the history of this subject, we find that it has had by no
means a sudden origin : for, at different periods, various persons have, by
degrees, worked out one fact after another, till the comprehensive science

has been developed. Electro-Metallurgy may be said to have had its
No. VIII.]                            APPENDIX.                                                          183

origin in the discovery of the constant battery by Professor Daniell, for in

that instrument the copper is continually reduced upon the negative plate.

In his first experiment, this distinguished author observed, on removing a

piece of the reduced copper from a platina electrode, that scratches on the

latter were copied with accuracy on the copper. In this experiment we
have the electrotype ; but the author, in the first paper detailing his expe-
riments, had devoted all his attention and centred all his energies to the
construction of the battery itself, and this valuable fact attracted but

little of his notice.

    "It was but a short time after the discovery of this battery that

Mr. De la Rue experimented on its properties. In a paper printed in the
' Philosophical Magazine ' for 1836, after describing a peculiar form of

battery which he adopts, the following remarkable passage is found :

' The copper-plate is also covered with a coating of metallic copper, which

is continually being deposited ; and so perfect is the sheet of copper thus
formed, that, being stripped off, it has the counterfeit of every scratch of
                        it                   '  This paper
the   plate  on which        is  deposited                                          seems  to  have  attracted
                                            !

very little attention; and, what seems still more singular, the author,

although well qualified, from his scientific attainments, to have applied

these facts, never thought of any practical benefit to which this experi-

ment     might lead.    the  subject  remained  till October 1838, when Professor
      "
         In this state

Jacobi first announced that he could employ the reduction of copper, by
galvanic agency, for the purposes of the arts. His process was called

galvano-plastic. Immediately upon his discovery being announced in this
country, in 1839, Mr. Spencer stated that he had executed some medals in

copper, to which the public afterwards gave the name of electrotypes or

voltatypes, or, what is better, electro-medallions."                                The exact value of
these primary discoveries "is simply the idea of the application of these

facts; but that idea has been everything for Electro-Metallurgy. The

only apparatus which Mr. Spencer employed was, in fact, a simple

Daniell's battery. He employed various metals for the reception of the
precipitated metal, which, however, was nothing new ; but he does not

seem to have succeeded with any non-conducting substances. He executed

medals, and perhaps duplicate copper-plates ; but he does not give any

details as to the different methods for the reduction of the copper in

different states, neither did he succeed with the reduction of any other
metal. However, to Mr. Spencer the British public are principally in-

debted for the idea of the electrotype ; and perhaps the idea, as far as
I Irelates to its application in Great Britain, originated entirely with him-

self. may further notice, in order to confirm what have already stated,
that the galvano-plastics of Jacobi, and the electrotype of Spencer, are not

inventions the result of inductive reasoning and laborious research, like

Professor Wheatstone's electro-telegraph, or certain elaborate machines,

but merely an application of a fact formerly known to Daniell, recorded
particularly by De la Rue, and observed by hundreds of others ; that both
Spencer and Jacobi could work only in copper, and in no other metal;
whilst, had they prosecuted their subject as a science, they would have

seen  "thEaletctthreo-Msaemtaellluarwgsy,regaus laftirestthmeadreedkuncotiwonn  of  all the metals.
                                                                                to  the world by Jacobi
                                                                                                         and

Spencer, was the simplest of all inventions the application of a fact
184                                 APPENDIX.                                   [No. VIII.

known and recorded previously; and it forms another instance of an
invention of the greatest magnitude and utility to mankind, arising from

the  m" oTshtesinmepxlte   beginnings.      is  fully equal  in value  to  the  idea  of  the
                          discovery, which
electrotype itself, was made by Mr. Murray. He found out that non-
conducting substances might have metallic copper thrown down upon
them by previously applying black lead. Mr. Murray's process is ex-
tremely simple and absolutely perfect. The first application of this inven-
tion was made in January 1840 ; but it is to be lamented that he did not
further extend its application and publish his researches, for his method
Iwas communicated orally, in the conversaziones of the Royal Institution,
and not by any paper.         lay particular stress upon the value and perfec-
Ition of plumbago, because some have denied its applicability ; and the

reader will find, throughout the whole of the work, that have extended
the use of the substance, to the benefit of the public and to the fame of
Ithe inventor.            have made very extensive inquiries in order to ascertain
Iwho really first used plumbago for this purpose, and have the testimony
of several authorities that it was Mr. Murray, whose claim, therefore, to
this invention is rendered quite indisputable
      " Up to April 1840, the single-cell apparatus was invariably used, but

then Mr. Mason very ingeniously devised another mode by which the
reduction might be effected. He used the single-cell apparatus as a
Daniell's battery, which he connected with another cell to reduce another

metal. In the second cell he used a copper positive electrode, which was
dissolved during the action. By this means he made two metals by one
pound of zinc, or, in other words, obtained two equivalents of copper for

Ione of zinc.

     " In the ' London Journal ' for April 1840, as far as know, is contained
the first specimen of printing from an electrotype, by Newton. It is a
        rough sketch, but as        first of the kind
small"  The laws regulating   the   reduction of all         is peculiarly interesting.
                               the                            metals in different states

were first given in this work, as the result of my own discoveries. By
these we can throw down gold, silver, platinum, palladium, copper, iron,
and almost all other metals in three states ; namely, as a black powder, as
a crystalline deposit, or as a flexible plate. These laws appear to me
at once to raise the isolated facts known as the electrotype into a science,

and to add electro-metallurgy as an auxiliary to the noble arts of this

count"ryT.he regulation of the power of the battery to the strength of the
metallic solution also required an investigation of the principles which
Iregulated the diffusion of

importance to the operator.
                              the newly-formed                salt, which is of great
                                                             have also appended data
                                In this work

whereby the manufacturer may calculate the expense of particular
processes before he adopts them. The formulae for ascertaining the
work that would be performed by a galvanic battery, under different

circumstances, cannot fail to be of great utility to the workman, if he

rightly employ them; and the intimate rationale of the motion of
electricity in the battery must be a subject, at least, of great interest to
all. The principle regulating the adhesion of the reduced metal is also
one of paramount importance in all cases where it has to be removed from
the plates on which it is deposited.
No. VIII.]                APPENDIX.                                          185

I" The hundreds of experiments,                   may even say the thousands, that

have been tried to elucidate these laws (for this book is not a detail of

Iexperiments, but rather a digest of them), could never have been executed

had not first discovered my galvanic battery ; for its simplicity alone
Ienabled me, without any assistance, to undergo the laborious undertaking.

  am fully aware that some may disagree with me as to the superiority of
Imy battery over all others for experimental and manufacturing purposes.
  shall not flinch on this account from stating its advantages, especially as
they "apTpheearvatlouemeofliktheelybtaottceoryntprirboucetesstoovgeernearllalotbheenrsefiti.s its applicability

to all cases ; moreover, when we use a single cell of the battery, the

quantity of the zinc dissolved to do any amount of work is the same, or

even less, than attends the use of the other apparatus, because the local
action in a battery of this construction is less than in the single-cell

Iapparatus ; and, lastly, the quality of the precipitated metal can be

regulated with the utmost nicety ; and have no hesitation in stating that

the battery process is the only one that ever can be employed by the manu-

facturer with advantage
      " The departments of electro-metallurgy comprising electro-gilding
and plating, received great impulses from Elkington ; some of his processes
being most admirable. As far as gilding is concerned, he was anticipated
by Brugnatelli nearly forty years ago, for which see letter of Brugnatelli
to Yan Mons, in the ' Phil. Mag.' for 1805, also ' Archives of Philoso-
phical Knowledge.' The process by Brugnatelli differs in nothing from

the one now employed, and doubtless ought to be considered as the
introduction of electro-metallurgy, being the first instance in which any

metal    was     ever reduced by galvanism for the purposes   of the arts.   the
      "  The      processes for platinating, palladiating,   &c., rest upon

authority of this work ; for hitherto the reduction of these metals, in

any other state than that of the black powder, has been always considered
impossible. The electro-metallurgist will be enabled, by the processes which
he will find here fully described, to execute reliefs and intaglios in gold,
and, in fact, in nearly every other metal ; facts altogether new in science.

The working of all other metals, as zinc, silver, &c. &c., except copper,

is also due to the discovery of the laws regulating the precipitation of

the metals.
      " Every author has given directions for making moulds on plaster
casts in metal ; but it is singular that by no process hitherto known can a

Iperfect reverse plaster be obtained. In investigating the cause of this,
   soon discovered that the extreme porosity of the plaster was the block
over which they had all stumbled, and the difficulty was overcome by

rendering the plaster non-absorbent. In this work the reader will find

that the copying of reliefs in plaster is brought to the utmost possible

perfe"ctiTohne,  and by   very simple means.  of  my  experiments  has amply repaid
                 success  of this department

Ime for my labours and expense ; for there is not a town in England that
   have happened to visit, and scarcely a street of this metropolis, where
prepared plasters are not exposed to view for the purpose of alluring
persons to follow the delightful recreation afforded by the practice of

electro-metallurgy .
      " The extended use of white- wax, bees'-wax, rosin, &c., for the electro-
186                         APPENDIX.                                                          [No. VIH.

I Imetallurgist, trust, will be found acceptable. Their manipulation Lave
given as the result of my own experience, and therefore, doubtless, those

Iwho make a trade of working these substances will find the account not so

full as might have been expected or wished ; yet believe practice alone is

requi"reTdhetoamppalkiceatthioenoopferealteocrtrop-emrfeetcatlluirngythestoe  arts.        of  leaves,  fruit,
                                                                              the copying
                            described in this work.
     is for the first time  etching here detailed,
     " The new mode of
I&c.,                                                                         confidently trust, will be

also found a valuable adjunct to the knowledge of the engraver. The
principle which regulates the adhesion and non-adhesion of the plates will

enable the operator to conduct his operations with certainty a cir-

cumstance of no small importance to the engraver, ignorance on this score

Ihavin" gThalerelaadwys     untoward results
     produced               have given in this work,                          and  the universality of
      which

their application, will doubtless influence importantly the attainment of

Ithe grand object of using the galvanic fluid commonly among our manu-

facturers; and having thus, as believe, raised the isolated facts called
the Electrotype into a vast and comprehensive science, a new name is

Irequired which may be suitable to its importance, and embrace its various

applications. The term which have ventured to apply to the science is
Electro-Metallurgy, which comprises the principles regulating all the arts

of working in metals by the galvanic force ; and the value of the new
....nomenclature is evident when we consider that it takes in every mode by

which it is possible to work metals, either by dissolving or precipitating
them, by the agency of the voltaic current."

Directions for coppering fruit, vegetables, leaves, seeds, &c. from Smee's
                         ' Elements of Electro-Metallurgy,' page 221.

     " A pretty application of the art of coppering is suitable to horticul-
turists, as by its means fruit, vegetables, leaves, seeds, and various other

specimens may be coated with copper, either for ornament or for the

purpose of illustrating the size, form, and other peculiarities of the object.

Apples and pears may be very readily coppered ; they are to be brushed
over with black-lead, and then a small pin is to be thrust in at the stalk :
to this a wire should be attached, which is connected with the zinc of the

battery. It may then be placed in the solution, and the whole arrangement
completed by the insertion of a piece of copper, which is to be connected

with the silver of the battery. In a similar manner cucumbers, gourds,
potatoes, carrots, and a hundred other vegetables, seeds, and roots can be
covered. The form, after the process, is characteristic, and marks so
strongly the individual character of each variety, that the horticulturist
is at no loss to distinguish the specimens at once. The condition in which
the copper is thrown down can, of course, be varied according to the laws
set forth in the last chapter. For ornamental purposes the crystalline
copper is the most beautiful; but for a specimen intended to illustrate
the form of the object, the smooth copper is best adapted. After the
objects are completely covered, the pin is to be withdrawn, which will
leave a little hole, and that enables the evaporating juices of the vegetable
Ito pass freely out, and thus promotes the complete drying of the encased
object. A cucumber which    coated during the past summer appears now
No. IX.]                   APPENDIX.                                                 187

to contain scarcely anything inside the copper, and the pears, apples, &c.,
consist of little else but the metallic coat. The botanist will readily
                           way this process may be employed for his
Iperce"ivTeheinbweahuatty   of electro-coppered leaves, branches, and   advantage.
                                                                        similar objects
                           have a case of these specimens placed on a black ground,
is surprising,
which no one would take to be productions of art. In the same room with

them are a couple of those cases in which Ward has taught us to grow in

this smoky metropolis some of the most interesting botanical specimens.

In these cases are contained varieties of fairy-formed adiantums, verdant
lycopodiums, brilliant orchidese, rigid cacti, and creeping lygodiums, all
growing in their natural luxuriance. The electro-coppered leaves, however,
Iare beautiful when placed by the side of the productions of this miniature

paradise ; and when state that the numerous hairs covering the leaves

of a melostoma, and even the delicate hairs of the salvia, are all perfectly

covered, the botanist must at once admit that these specimens have

rather the minuteness of nature than the imperfections of art." He also

shows how   a beautiful effect of  moentablalisckesutsrfawcehsichm,ay"  be obtained    by the
deposition  of crystallized metal                                       filled with  metallic

fruit, leaves, insects, &c., might be used as ornaments for the drawing-

room, and would greatly exceed in interest the usual appendages."

                                      No. IX.

     RECEIPT OF A WRITING INK made by ALFRED SMEE.

56 NUT-GALLS to 50 gallons of water ; specific gravity 22.
      15 Ibs. copperas to 5 gallons of water.
      15 Ibs. of gum to 5 gallons of water.
      1 gallon of pyroligneous acid.
       T Ib. corrosive sublimate.
      Hot water to be poured on the gall-nuts, and this is to be allowed to

stand about twenty-four hours.
      The infusion of galls is then to be poured off, and the gum (previously

mixed with the five gallons of water) to be first added ; then the copperas,
which also has been previously mixed with five gallons of water, the pyro-
ligneous acid, and the corrosive sublimate are all to be mixed together.

The whole to stand till the ink is dark enough for writing, when bottle off.

      The specific gravity of ink, when made, to be 35-37.
      The ink should be run through sieves four or five, or even six times, to
make it clear.
188                            APPENDIX.                                     [No. X.

                                              No. X.

ON THE CAUSE OF THE REDUCTION OF METALS WHEN
    SOLUTIONS OF THEIR SALTS ARE SUBJECTED TO THE
     GALVANIC CURRENT. By ALFRED SMEE, Esq., F.R.S., Surgeon

      to the Bank of England, &c.* (' London, Edinburgh, and Dublin
     Philosophical Magazine, and Journal of Science,' December 1844.)

1. AT the present time, when the new science of electro-metallurgy is
improving and multiplying the arts of this already extensive manufactur-
ing empire, there cannot be a subject more fit for the consideration of the
Fellows of the Royal Society than the cause of metals being reduced when
solutions of their salts are subjected to the voltaic circuit.

     2. The opinions of philosophers upon this point, from the period when
electricity first lent its mighty aid to chemists, are various. Some have
supposed that hydrogen evolved by the decomposition of water reduces the
metals, others that the poles directly attract the metals to their surfaces,

and lately a paper has been printed in the Transactions of this Society
whereby a new constitution of the salts is inferred ; the acid and oxygen
being supposed by electrolysis to pass in one direction, the metal in the
                   opinion was put forward by Hisinger and       Berzelius, and
other.  The first   the ' Annales de Chimie,' vol. li. p. 174 :
may be  found in                                                 " II resulte de

tons ces faits, que Ton a une idee fausse de la reduction operee par

I'electricite, puis qu'on 1'attribue au degagement de 1'hydrogene, comment

expliqueroit-on la reduction du fer et du zinc, qui ont la propriete de de-

composer 1'eau sans I'electricite."

     A similar opinion has been advocated by Faraday in the ' Philosophical
Transactions,' and he applied a new name to this kind of action, giving it

the term electro-chemical      action. The  second  hypothesis   was promulgated
                               who states,  " that  hydrogen,   the alkaline sub-
by Sir Humphry Davy,

stances, the metals, and certain metallic oxides are attracted by negatively

electrified metallic surfaces, and repelled by positively electrified metallic

surfaces ; and contrariwise, that oxygen and acid substances are attracted

by positively electrified metallic surfaces, and these attractive and repul-

sive forces are sufficiently energetic to destroy or suspend the usual

operation of chemical affinity." (Phil. Ti-ans. 1807, p. 28.)
     3. The hypothesis of the direct electrolysis of metallic salts has been

advanced by Prof. Daniell in consequence of some ingenious experiments
which have been detailed before this Society, and in which it is supposed

that he directly stopped the metal in its passage to the negative pole. The

mode in which the experiments were performed is as follows : A solution

of the metallic salt is placed on the positive side of a diaphragm apparatus
and a solution of potassa on the other side, when, on the circuit being com-

     * Communicated by the Author ; having been read before the Koyal Society,
March 9,    1843, as recorded  in Phil.          S. 3, vol.  xxiii. p. 51.     This paper
was also    published in the   4th vol.   Mag.   ' Archives                  in 1844 ; in
                                         of the              de 1'filectr.'
            'Ann. Fis. Chim.' vol. xv.
Majocchi,   1844 ; in the ' Proceedings  1844;   in the 'Philosophical Magazine,'
vol. xxv.   Annal.' Ixv. 1845.           of the  Itoyal Society,' vol. iv. ; in the
' Poggeud.
No. X.]                    APPENDIX.                                   189

pleted by a powerful battery, the metal is deposited on the diaphragm.
From this experiment it has been conceived that the acid and oxygen are
in combination, forming a proximate principle, which in sulphate of
copper is called oxysulphion ; and the salt of copper is believed to be an
oxysulphion of copper. When this salt is subjected to the voltaic circuit,
he believes it to be directly electrolysed, the oxysulphion passing one way

and the copper the other.
      4. This experiment is so much at variance with the electro-chemical

doctrine of Dr. Faraday and the inference to be drawn from my cinder

Iexperiment, that on rewriting my ' Elements of Electro-Metallurgy,' felt
Iit to be my duty to examine carefully this hypothesis before adopted or

rejected such an important doctrine. For this purpose his experiments
Iwere repeated and varied in different ways ; and with alkalies on the nega-

tive side readily and immediately obtained the metal on the diaphragm,
but failed when neutral salts were used on the negative side, or when solu-

tions of gold and platinum were employed on the positive. A series of
Iexperiments were then instituted on the polarity of solid substances inter-
posed between two platinum poles.  placed a series of copper wires in all
directions and situations between the poles, in a solution of sulphate of

copper, and found that one part of each wire became positive and was dis-

solved, and another part of the same wire became negative and reduced the

Imetal from the solution ; so that all the wires were, at different parts, either
dissolving or increasing.  next extended my examination as to the capa-

bilities of platinum wires to become polar, and found that a much greater
resistance was effected in this case than when other metals were employed ;

still, however, by particular management they were readily made to give

off abundance of gas (' Elements of Electro-Metallurgy,' p. 53, 2nd edit.).

    I5. The polarity of interposed conducting substances having been fully

proved, endeavoured to ascertain how far non-conducting bodies would
take on a similar condition, but could not obtain very satisfactory proof on

this matter.   Sufficient evidence not being obtained  ptoolaprr,ovIe   the possibility
of interposed   non-conducting substances to become                    determined not

to rely on the investigation for the cause of the reduction of the metals on

these experiments, but seek proofs from other causes.

    I6. repeated the experiments made in 1839, and communicated to the
I' Philosophical Magazine ' in 1840, from which discovered that porous

coke or charcoal, when arranged as the negative pole in dilute sulphuric

Iacid, absorbed a large quantity of hydrogen. The mode in which repeated

these experiments was as follows : A piece of well-burnt charcoal or
cinder was removed red-hot from the fire and quenched in dilute sulphuric
acid, so that all chance of the presence of oxygen in its texture might be

precluded. In this state it had no effect on metallic solutions. It was

then arranged as the negative pole in dilute sulphuric acid by connecting
it with the voltaic battery, when it became charged with hydrogen, which
was ascertained by the circuit being completed some time before gas was
evolved from its surface. Pieces of coke thus charged with hydrogen
were dipped into various metallic solutions, when the metal was instantly
deposited as a brilliant coating on the coke. The deposit of copper
affords the most beautiful example, though the deposit of other metals,
as of silver and gold, is also striking. Coke charged with hydrogen retains
the property of reducing metals many days after its first saturation.
190                     APPENDIX.                                   [No. X.

     7. The repetition of these experiments deeply impressed my mind
Ithat hydrogen evolved from the decomposition of water is really the

cause of the reduction of the metals, and pursued my experiments to test

this idea, the first promulgated on the subject, and the one supported by

our eminent galvanist, Dr. Faraday.
     8. The next stage of investigation consisted in inquiring as to whether
the transfer of the metal took place uniformly and synchronously with

this reduction. It is apparent that such a transfer is absolutely necessary
Ito the theory of the direct electrolysis of the metallic salt, but let us see
what is the result.  prepared a uniform solution of sulphate of copper,
and placed at the bottom of a tall vessel containing it a positive copper
pole, and at the upper part a negative pole of the same metal, forming a
circuit by means of one or two cells of my galvanic battery. On the action
of the voltaic force bright reguline copper at first appeared at the negative
pole ; this was followed by a brittle, this by a sandy, this by a spongy

deposit, this by black powder, and finally hydrogen was evolved.
     9. This most important experiment was repeated in a variety of ways
and with various metallic salts, with the details of which there is no need

to trouble the Society, because the experiment just described as an example
points out in the most positive manner that the transfer of metal is not

proportionate to the metal reduced. The positive pole indicates the same
fact, for it became coated with metallic salt, showing beyond all source of

fallacy that the metallic salt was directly formed at one pole and the

metal directly reduced from another portion of the metallic solution at

the other. In a neutral solution of any metallic salt, as that of copper,

the acid is no more equally transferred to the positive pole than the metal

is to the negative ; and we find in its decomposition that the positive pole

is frequently coated with oxide of copper of considerable thickness, and

from the liberation of an equivalent of sulphuric acid from the sulphate

Ithe solution speedily becomes acid.                        observed this

      10. Not only in the above-described experiments have

fact, but in the experiments of the decomposition of above one hundred

Idifferent salts, including those of twenty distinct metals, which performed
Ifor my work on 'Electro-Metallurgy,' did the results show themselves

more or less evidently; and may state that no electro-metallurgical
process can be conducted without the production of these phenomena ;

and one of the greatest, if not the very greatest difficulty which the
electro-metallurgist has practically to contend with, is the variation

in the strength of the metallic salts subjected to decomposition.*

     I* Nov. 20, 1844.  happened to call yesterday upon that excellent practical
electro-metallurgist, Mr. Home, of Newgate Street, and found that he was
making an electro statue of Sir John Crosby, in a mould prepared by the
sculptor, Mr. Samuel Nixon, from the original model also executed by him.
Mr. Home was engaged about the leg, and he stated that he was much troubled
by the non-uniform diffusion of the metallic salt through the solution. The
mode in which he overcame the difficulty was very simple : he introduced a
glass tube every now and then to the bottom of the leg and blew through
     a
             ;a
                it

                                                    I
                                                                                                                   it,
which caused proper mixture of the exhausted and saturated solutions. The
fact was pretty practical example of the opinions which have been endeavour-
                shows that the theorist may in vain attempt to bolster up
ing to enforce
No. X.]                         APPENDIX.     191

     11. In what way are the metals reduced if thy are not transferred
from pole to pole ? A careful investigation of a solution depositing its

metal will at once explain the phenomenon, for from the negative surface
a colourless lighter fluid is seen to rise, which in some cases will destroy

the electro -metallurgist's hopes, by causing grooves on the reduced metal,
sometimes even to the extent of an inch or more in depth, and the same
fluid at other times will cause a sandy or spongy deposit. From these
facts it is evident that water is formed at the negative surface, and that

hydrogen probably reduces the metallic salt.

12. We have now as arguments in favour of the reduction of the

metals by hydrogen gas liberated by decomposition of the water, first, the

results obtained by the cinder experiment ; secondly, the non-transference

of the metal ; thirdly, the imperfect transference of the acid ; fourthly, the

rise of a light aqueous fluid from the negative pole of a metallic solution.

We have, fifthly, besides these cases, the analogy of the reduction of nitrous

acid in Grove's battery by hydrogen, for the removal of the gas by the acid
gives to it its intensity ; and in this case no other mode can even be sup-
posed by which the decomposition of the acid is effected, save and except
its decomposition by hydrogen. The further alteration of the persalts of

Imetals into protosalts favours strongly, by analogy, the same opinion.

Such evidence is amply sufficient, but have now to detail some direct
experiments in which hydrogen alone reduces metals from various salts.

13. The mode in which this satisfactory result is obtained is very
simple. The metallic solution to be examined is placed in a glass, a test

tube filled with the same solution is then procured, into which a slip of

platinum, platinized as for the construction of my battery, is then placed.

The whole is then placed within a glass of metallic solution, and a current

of hydrogen introduced sufficient to extend half-way up the platinized

platinum. It will be seen that the arrangement is similar to that of one

of the tubes of Professor Grove's elegant gas battery, and the various

results obtained by this mode of examination it will be my duty im-

medi1a4te. lyIf  to explain.    employed  be chloride of platinum, the hydrogen
                  the solution

disappears gradually, and the black powder of platinum is coated here and

there by a beautiful bright layer of reguline metal.
      15. With a solution of chloride of gold the same result is seen, the

platinum being gilt with a beautiful deposit of metal. With this salt the

action is immediate.
16. With nitrate of palladium the hydrogen is rapidly absorbed and

bright palladium deposited.
      17. With nitric acid and platinized platinum the hydrogen is gradually

absorbed and the acid decomposed.

     18. A solution of sulphate of copper under similar examination yields

a plentiful crop of small crystals of copper in a short period.

      19. A solution of persulphate of iron yields rapidly its oxygen and
becomes converted into the protosulphate.

crude notions, for the practical man must, to be successful, not only adopt, but
act upon the true rationale of the phenomena. Societies may determine that
the metals are directly electrolysed, but the practical man will find that their
edicts will have but very little effect upon his processes. A. S.
192               APPENDIX.                 [No. X.

     20. A solution of nitrate of silver yields slowly small crystals of silver,

but the action with, this metal is not so rapid.
      21. The hydrogen was slowly absorbed when exposed to a solution of

muriate of tin in contact with platinized platinum.
      22. Nickel was slowly deposited from the chloride, when exposed under

similar circumstances, as a white deposit.
     23. Hydrogen, contrary to my expectations, did not appear to reduce

Iiodine from iodic acid.
      24. From the solution of protosalts of iron could not determine that

Ithe metal was reduced.
      25. next subjected to experiment the extraordinary compounds of
Icyanogen forming the metallo-cyanides.     From the aurocyanide of potas-

sium obtained metallic gold.
     26. The argento-cyanide of potassium, in a similar way, yielded slowly

silver, the hydrogen becoming at the same time lessened.

      27. These last two results are interesting to the chemist, for it appears

to open a path for investigation on the nature of these veiy curious and

now highly important combinations.
      28. Such were my results with, platinized platinum and hydrogen ; the

hydrogen becoming absorbed and the metals being reduced. It was found

that chloride of platinum, chloride of palladium, persalts of iron, chloride

of gold, and nitric acid yielded the oxygen most rapidly. It next became

my endeavour to ascertain how far other metals, or different conditions

of the same metal, might be used ; and smooth platinum was next the

subject of experiment. "With, sulphate of copper or persalts of iron no

absorption, however, took place.

      29. Palladinized platinum was made the subject of experiment; and
when employed with hydrogen in a manner similar to platinized platinum
in sulphate of copper, it caused that metal to be reduced.
      30. The effects of silver were then examined, and for that purpose a
piece, carefully cleaned by nitric acid, was immersed in a solution of copper
in contact with the hydrogen, but no change occurred even after many days.

     31. No better result attended the employment of silver sponge used
for the same purpose.
      32. Nor did the black deposit of silver answer better to effect the

absorption of the hydrogen, and the reduction of the metal from a solution
of sulphate of copper did not occur.
      33. Copper, both in its bright and spongy states, was next examined ;
in its bright state, cleansed by nitric acid, no change occurred.

     34. In the spongy state it appeared to be of no greater efficacy to

cause the reduction of the metal.

     35. Considering the interest attached to carbon in the cinder experi-
ment, detailed in a former part of this paper, a piece of carbon was exposed

to the action of hydrogen and a solution of copper, but, singular to state,

Ino deposit of copper took place, nor was any hydrogen absorbed. In fact
   have no mechanical method of charging coke with hydrogen, by which

Iit can be made to cause the reduction of the metals.
      36. The last set of experiments which instituted upon the reduction
of the metals by hydrogen was the value of bibulous paper to effect that

object. In dilute chloride of gold apparently no action after two or three

days took place.
No. X.]  APPENDIX.  193

     37. In a solution of sulphate of copper, after many days, no action

apparently occurred with paper and hydrogen.

     38. In a solution of nitrate of silver the same negative result with

paper occurred.*
      39. The persulphate of iron was not changed into the protosalt by the

action of that gas in contact with paper.
      40. As a summary of results obtained on the direct reduction of the

metals from their solutions by hydrogen, it may be stated generally, that
platinized and palladinized platinum alone were found to be competent to
promote that change, negative results being obtained with smooth platinum,
smooth silver, black powder of silver, bright copper, spongy copper, cinder
or paper. These negative results are by no means to be taken as a proof

that under these circumstances hydrogen might not reduce the metals,
for it is possible under certain conditions that many other substances, like
finely-divided platinum, might possibly take on the power of assisting in
this mysterious way the absorption of the gas.

      41. These various direct experiments of the deoxidizing agency of

hydrogen gas are valuable to the electrician, as they point out the cause
of some of the most interesting galvanic phenomena. To the electro-

metallurgist they assume a much higher importance, for they point out to
him, that in the decomposition of the metallic fluid the uniform strength
will not be preserved by the changes taking place by virtue of the voltaic
current. He must therefore remember in all cases to bring into play the
attraction of gravity, not only to cause the diffusion of the newly-formed
salt, from which the metal is to be deposited, but the acid to dissolve the
oxide formed at the positive pole. The mode in which the metals are
reduced may appear quite immaterial to the practical man, but he will
find that the non-uniform diffusion of the metallic salt arising from
the particular manner in which the reduction takes place, is the cause

nearly of all his troubles.
      42. From all these experiments we have an overwhelming body of

evidence, of different kinds, to support the notion of the reduction of
metals from their solution by hydrogen. The direct reduction in the
cinder experiment, the non-transference of the metal, the imperfect
transference of the acid, the rise of a light aqueous fluid from the
negative pole, the analogous case of the decomposition of nitric acid and
persalts of iron, and finally the direct experiments of the reduction of
gold, silver, platinum, palladium, nickel, copper, tin, and the decomposi-
tion of the persalts of iron and nitric acid enclosed within a tube, appear
to set the question to rest, and to point out in the clearest manner that

      * After some time the paper exhibited a black deposition of silver; the
surface of the glass tube became encrusted with a brilliant layer of metallic
silver. The importance of this experiment is manifest, for it shows that
hydrogen and siliceous matter may at any time reduce metals from their
solutions, a power doubtless in frequent operation in the bowels of the earth.
How far metallic veins are thus deposited remains to be proved by future
investigations. The decomposition of organic matter will always yield hydrogen,
and hydrogen, under certain circumstances, will always reduce metals from the
solutions of their salts.

                                                                                                                                               O
                              APPENDIX.                     [No. XL

Ihydrogen is the cause of the reduction of the metals. All the experi-
ments which          have detailed only add confirmation to the valuable
researches of Faraday on Electro-Chemical Decomposition, published in
the 'Philosophical Transactions.' To the inquiring mind a question
naturally arises as to whether the hydrogen reduces the metal directly
from the metallic solution, or whether it reduces its oxide. The former
opinion, from the above experiments, appears to be most worthy of credit,
                              discovered to elucidate that  action, they   will
though should other facts be  separate communication to     this Society.
form subjects hereafter of a                                                 It

follows from these interesting experiments, that when a solution of
metallic salt is subjected to the voltaic influence, the water is decomposed,
oxygen passing one way and hydrogen the other ; and that this hydrogen

at the moment of decomposition on the negative plate performs the same
part to sulphate of copper and other metallic salts that a piece of iron or

zinc would to the same solutions.

                                       No. XI.

ON THE INHALATION OF AMMONIA GAS AS A REMEDIAL
     AGENT. By ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S. (From the 'London Medical

      Gazette,' April 7th, 1843.)

OF all the physical states in which bodies are known to exist, substances

in the form of vapour or gas are most readily absorbed by animal mem-

branes, producing rapid and powerful effects from very small quantities.
As a mass, we are but little acquainted with the properties of gases upon

the animal economy, and the little we do know is principally due to the

persevering inquiries of Sir Humphry Davy. The rapidly deleterious

effects of minute quantities of the vapours of hydrocyanic acid, of

bromine, of sulphuretted hydrogen, and even of many other gases,

exemplify well their powerful action on the animal economy. At present

gases are almost entirely discarded as remedial agents, but doubtless there

are numerous cases where substances may be advantageously employed
as remedial agents in their gaseous or aeriform state. Without wasting
time upon general remarks, let me at once call the attention of the

profession to a simple remedy of this nature; namely, the value of
diluted ammonia gas for stimulating the mucous membrane of the
mouth, fauces, trachea, and bronchi. By its local administration it
may exercise its power over the whole system, as this gas may either
be made to have a topical or general influence, according to the extent
of its application.

The inhalation of so stimulating a gas as ammonia is well known to
be, at first sight, perfectly startling to those who have never either tried it
on their own persons or never seen it applied by others, but it is really,
Ifin many cases, with proper management, a simple and one of the most
delightful remedies that can be employed.  a bottle, containing a solu-
No. XL]                         APPENDIX.      195

Iftion of the gas, as the common liquor ammonias or hartshorn, be opened,
part of the gas escapes.    this comes in contact with the conjunctiva, it
stimulates it and causes much fluid to be poured from its secreting sur-
face, and its influence on the delicate lining membrane of the nasal cavi-
ties is not less powerful. In fact, this vapour appears immediately to
cause a secretion of fluid from the parts with which it comes in contact.
When this gas is absorbed by the mouth in far larger quantities, it
appears to cause in a similar manner an increase of the watery part of the
secretion, usually passing from all the several parts with which it there
can come in contact. A priori it might be expected the glottis would

resist the intrusion of the gas, but this is by no means found to be the

case when in a diluted state, as it apparently readily passes into the inner-

most recesses of the lungs, and, instead of producing disagreeable effects,
causes sensations which are extremely grateful and agreeable. The

gaseous nature of ammonia allows it to come in contact with every chink

of the air-passages, and even the upper and back parts of the pharynx,

which from its peculiar construction resists the application of other

topical remedies.

The immediate effect of the inhalation of this gas is to cause the

fauces and pharynx, before dry, and perhaps covered with inspissated

adherent mucus, to force out a watery fluid to lubricate and relieve the
membrane ; the phlegm will then separate and come away, and a more or

less instantaneous relief is frequently felt. We all know the expectorant
qualities of ammonia, and the value of its sesquicarbonate, whenever the
system will bear its administration, as a general remedy, but its qualities,
when used as a local agent, seem to be more active in this respect than

when used as a general remedy.

      The most convenient mode of administering the ammoniacal gas is to
use the vapour that spontaneously exhales from solutions of ammonia. Of
these it is preferable not to employ a solution stronger than the liquor

ammonise of the shops, or weaker than the same diluted to twenty or
thirty times its quantity of water. For general purposes, perhaps, the
usual liquor may be employed diluted with ten times its bulk of water;

but the strength of the ammonia must be regulated by the medical
practitioner according to the nature of the case, and the susceptibility

of the patient, and even according to the strength of the original

liquor.

The liquor ammonise, diluted according to the discretion of the medi-

cal attendant, may be placed in a common phial, and as much should be
inserted as to occupy about the two lower inches of the bottle. The

patient has only to apply his lips to the mouth of this homely contrivance,
and draw in his breath, when he will inhale a certain quantity of the

ammonia. Before the application of the mouth to the bottle the patient

should take care that none of the liquid adheres to the aperture, which on

coming in contact with his lips would cause them to smart, and, being no
part of the cure, the pain would be perfectly useless. The number of

inspirations to be taken at one time may be determined by the strength of
the water and the effect of the remedy. Two, three, or four inspirations
will in general be sufficient at one time, but this must be repeated three or

four times during the day.

                                           o2
196           APPENDIX.                                                           [No. XI.

be  reAadmilyoremacdoenvaenndienatdvaapnptaagraetouusslythaenmpthloeyesdim. pleA  one last described may
                                                                                  bottle may be selected,

and a cork procured, bored with two holes. Into one a piece of bent glass
tube may be inserted, having the other end dilated for the convenience of
applying the lips. Into the second hole of the cork a tube should be
thrust, within half an inch of the liquid, so that when the patient inhales,
the ammonia passing from the liquid tube, is taken into the chest, and this
is perhaps to be preferred to drawing the breath itself through the solu-

tion of ammonia.

    IThough the last apparatus will answer the purpose more or less effi-

ciently, have yet to describe a far more elegant device to be employed as

an inhaling apparatus. A two-necked bottle is procured ; into one mouth

a tube is adapted, to serve as a mouth-piece. This tube is ground to fit
the neck, and when not used is removed for the insertion of a common
stopper, that the strength of the ammonia may be preserved. Into the
neck another tube is ground, into the inside of which another stopper is
fixed. When the inhaler is in operation, this stopper is withdrawn to
allow the air to pass into the bottle, but when not wanted it serves to
close the apparatus.- This inhaler is most admirably adapted for the
desired purpose, and perhaps for gaseous inhalations cannot well be sur-
passed. The diluted liquor ammoniae is seen at the bottom of the vessel,
extending to within half an inch of the tube.
     The vapour inhaled from the liquor ammonise does not seem to pass
away immediately, but may be distinctly tasted for some minutes after-
wards, even subsequently to the commencement of its beneficial action.

The value of the local application of this gas is seen in cases of what is
called dryness of the throat, which appears to arise from a deficiency of
the secretion of the liquid which normally lubricates the mucous mem-
brane. The mucus from that cause becomes dry, and causes much uneasi-
ness to the individual. The common and popular remedy of applying
hartshorn and oil to the throat for various affections is probably in great
part owing to the inhalation of the vapour of the ammonia, which ne-
cessarily at the same time occurs, as it is impossible that this external
application can be effected without a large quantity being imbibed at

the same time.

      Ammonia gas is also beneficial in chronic hoarseness, especially in
that which is often left as a sequela of influenza. This gas affords great
relief and comfort to the relaxed, swollen, and apparently semi-cedematous
state of the mucous membrane, which supervenes from remaining in
crowded, overheated, and ill-ventilated rooms, where eveiy person not
only inhales his own breath over and over again, but is under the inflic-

tion of breathing his neighbour's also. In cases of incipient cynanche
tonsillaris it appears to be of much value if used at the very commence-

ment of the attack ; the slight impediment to deglutition, which is gene-
rally the first premonitory sign, is sometimes removed by one or two

inhalations.
     There are occasionally cases of syphilitic ulceration of the throat
witnessed, where the patient suffers from such debility that the prac-
titioner is afraid of applying any remedy capable of depressing the system,
where the inhalation of the gas might probably be of great service,
No. XL]      APPENDIX.                                                197

Ibut as such a case has not occurred in my own practice for a long period
  am unable to speak practically upon the matter.*
     In old-standing cases of asthma, especially in those in which the
medical man considers that the internal use of the sesquicarbonate of
ammonia is indispensable, in which the extremities are cold, the pulse
feeble, and the general vital powers depressed, the local application of
ammonia is particularly grateful, the patients feeling, as they describe it,
a glow after its exhibition, and the warmth first imparted to the lungs
extending by degrees over their whole system.

     In cases where the patient feels a peculiar sense of contraction upon

passing into cold atmospheres, as though the lungs resisted the intrusion
of so unpleasant an agent, the inhalation of ammonia seems to quiet the

spasmodic action, relieve the breathing, and give a comfort to the whole
chest, which is delightful to the feelings of the sufferer.

     Perhaps it is almost needless to notice that this remedy would be

deleterious when either special organs or the general system are attacked
with acute inflammation, for there is but little doubt that the ammoniacal

vapour is a decided stimulus, first locally in those parts with which it

comes in contact, and, secondly, on the system in general, by its absorp-
tion into the circulation. As a stimulating agent it must obey the laws of

stimulants generally. It should not, therefore, be employed when the part

with which it comes in contact is inflamed, nor when a dry parched
tongue, a full pulse, and a dry skin, denote a feverish system. In all
chronic cases, or even occasionally with acute cases, with a feeble circula-
tion, in fact, whenever the system is depressed, and stimulants are advi-
sable, the inhalation of ammonia may be used with the greatest advantage

Iand comfort to the patient.
          have made inquiries of those who have to deal with large quantities
of ammonia, and are necessarily exposed to the inconvenience of a large
escape of gas, but cannot find that even with extensive exposure it ever
exercises poisonous or deleterious effects, nor does Ramazzini, in his

curious little treatise on tradesmen's diseases, notice its action.

       Not alone to the relief and cure of diseases is ammonia capable of
lending its aid as a remedial agent, for it is an invaluable and effectual

antidote to certain direct and powerful poisons. One of these poisons, the

effects of which it thus counteracts, is bromine. This volatile fluid is per-
haps one of the most deadly poisons with which we are acquainted. It

lowers the circulation with great rapidity, and makes the action of the
heart irregular, and unfortunately, from its volatile nature, cannot well be
used without considerable escape. Its hurtful action on the animal
economy is instantly counteracted by the vapour of ammonia, for when

the two gases meet, dense white fumes are produced, when bromine pro-
bably ceases to exert its baneful influence, or at any rate only to a much

* The inhalation of ammonia might, perhaps, also perform the same good
offices to syphilitic ulceration of the throat as cinnabar fumigation is known
usually to effect. The use of the cinnabar, however, may be so much dispensed

Iwith by the antimonial and antimonio-ferruginous treatment which have
             Med. Gaz.'), that the ammonia has not been used in       any of these
recorded ('  should further information be obtained upon this point,  it will be the
cases ; but

subject of a future communication.
198                         APPENDIX.                                 [No. XI.

Iless extent.*.  have known persons nearly poisoned by incautiously using
this substance, and who have been quite at a loss to know how to proceed
to neutralize its action. Those who have to deal with bromine would do
well to have an open vessel of the liquor ammonise by their side, which is
in general quite sufficient to prevent any unpleasant consequence, by com-
bining with any bromine which may pass off in vapour.
     Ammonia is also useful when prussic acid is floating in the atmo-
sphere of a room, as in this case it not only neutralizes the acid, but its
stimulating properties are directly opposite to the depressing action of

the acid.
     As all bodies in burning give off ammonia, a consideration arises as to
whether some of the effects of smoking may not be attributed to that
agent independently of the active principles that substances used for
smoking are known to contain. The possibility of such a thing has been
suggested to me, but it is quite certain that only a small portion of the
effects of smoking can be attributed to the ammonia. The presence of
ammonia in a burning cigar may be shown by collecting its vapour in a
bottle containing a few drops of muriatic acid, when abundance of fumes
Ifarise.   liquor potassse be added, the ammonia is again set free, and will
again exhibit the white fumes if brought near muriatic acid.
     There is an interesting physiological fact connected with the inhala-
tion of ammonia, for in determining the lungs to increase their aqueous
exhalation, it frequently at the same time causes a similar action on the
Iskin by the exhalation of moisture from its entire surface. For the last

two or three years have occasionally been in the habit of inhaling
ammonia as a luxury during the prevalence of the easterly winds, which

by their action so dreadfully dry up and parch all living creatures.

     The application of ammoniacal vapour, in the manner which has been

already pointed out, is rather an agent of comfort, removing slight ail-
ments and troublesome affections, than a remedy which is capable of

saving life from violent diseases, except indeed when used as an antidote

to certain poisons. Still, however, there is no complaint, however trifling,

no system, however unimportant (if attended with discomfort and incon-

venience to mankind), that it is not the duty of the medical man to endea-

vour to relieve or remove.

      * The production of these white fumes by the admixture of these two gases

Iis interesting, and, so far as know, has not been noticed by chemists, though
I have myself long been in the habit of applying ammonia to distinguish between

the fumes of bromine, iodine, and chlorine, the two latter elements having
apparently not the same influence when brought into conjunction with ammonia.

These white fumes are liable to be confounded with muriate of ammonia, if

muriatic acid is present.
No. XII.]                    APPENDIX.                                                 199

                             No. XII.

ANALYSIS OF ALFRED SMEE'S SECOND BOOK, 'THE
    SOURCES OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE; OR, AN INTRODUCTION TO

THE STUDY OF PHYSIOLOGY THROUGH PHYSICS, COMPRISING THE

CONNECTION OF THE SEVERAL DEPARTMENTS OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE,

THEIR DEPENDENCIES ON THE SAME LAWS,' &c. From a Review.

Together with the two concluding chapters of "The Sources of
Physical Science,' which treat of the " Relation of the Material to

the Immaterial."

MR. SMEE tells us in his preface that it had long been " a favourite

subject with him to endeavour to investigate the physical structure of man,

and to endeavour to unravel the mysterious means by which all physical

forces, when acting on the human frame, are converted into nervous
impressions. To conduct such an inquiry, it became necessary to examine

the sources from which the several departments of research, constituting
physical science, have their origin."
      For this purpose he intended to draw up a sketch of physical science,
which might be prefixed to his physiological inquiries, in the form of an

introductory chapter; but the length, to which this chapter extended
induced him to publish it as a separate volume.

The work, then, contains a condensed view of the physical sciences,

exhibiting the nature and mutual relations of the various divisions of

those sciences, and attempting to show the real nature of those forces,

such as electricity, magnetism, &c., by which matter is commonly said to

be acted upon, and which have often been treated as so many independent

existences by various philosophers.

The first chapter treats of matter, number, and attraction ; and first,
                          isSmiteec,om"pbreehinegndecdom?posed
what is matter ?    how                                         of the  material  and  the
      " Man," says   Mr.

immaterial, of body and soul, can have no distinct idea of anything not

partaking of his own constitution. He can form no conception of matter
without that which gives it properties, nor can he understand that which
gives it properties without the matter
                                                                That which men call

matter is known by its properties ; so that the term matter is given to
                                                                        All the properties
anything which exerts these peculiar properties

or influences of matter are dependent on an ultimate property, which

confers a power whereby two particles or portions of matter are drawn

towards each other by a force exerted in a particular direction."

     But it may be said that it is necessary to prove that matter really
exists that what we call the effects and properties of matter are something

more than the results of a   visionary dynamis.  " speculating          upon the pro-
      " Ingenious persons,"   says our author,

perties of matter independently of the thing itself, have persuaded them-

selves, with some show of reason, that matter has no existence. Their

minds have, however, been led astray by their mode of arriving at their
conclusions. They have not commenced with a, sound definition of what

we designate matter. Defining matter to be thatyuhich attracts, and allowing
attraction to be its test, obviates all difficulty." P. 3.
200                              APPENDIX.                                [No. XH.

      Having next spoken of the origin, meaning, and right use of those
terms which denote the abstract properties of matter, and having treated
of the nature of matter, with a glance at the question whether it comprises
one element only under a diversity of forms, or whether there really are
as many elements as there are bodies yet undecompounded by the skill of
the chemist, he then treats of number, that is to say, the abstract idea of
a series of particles ; and thus, in the first chapter, he has considered the
three points which he assumes as fundamentals that is to say, matter,
attraction, and number from which all physical forces and conditions of

existence are derived.      Mr.  Smee treats  of the  " science of matter  under

     In the second chapter
attraction," and he proceeds to show that the power of attraction (which
has been described as the primitive property of matter and the test of its
existence) being exerted, with various degrees of energy upon various numbers
of atoms, and in various directions, gives to masses  of  matter all the  properties
which they apparently possess. "We may observe,           passant, that   Mr. Smee
                                                      en

gives no credence to the existence of any of the so-called imponderable
substances. He treats the idea of the separate existence of heat, light,
electricity, magnetism, &c., as a palpable absurdity, and contends that
each of these terms merely refers to one class of actions or effects produced

by the attraction of matter exerted in various manners.

     In discussing the science of matter under attraction, one of the first
points to be noticed is the manner of estimating the force with which any
two particles of matter are attracted together, and of comparing that with
the force of other attractions. On this point, observes our author
      " As we have not the power of appreciating the units, or atoms of

matter, we have not the means of obtaining a perfect unit of the force

of attraction. The only absolute unit of this power would be the force
of attraction exerted between two ultimate particles of matter, a unit

which we can never hope to obtain.
      " As we have not the power of using the primitive atoms of matter,

we take a given mass, and assume that to be a unit. The force exerted
between this maes and the whole bulk of the earth at the level of the sea

is then obtained. This is assumed as a unit of force which is called a
unit of weight, and to which all other weights are referred." P. 22.

     " In our artificial standards of weight the unit is the grain, which is

the force of attraction of a cubic inch of water to the earth at the tempera-
                                                      It has been recommended,
ture 62, barometer 30, divided by 252'5

and perhaps is preferable, to take any piece of matter and assume its

weight as an arbitrary standard, for philosophers disagree as to the
true weight of a cubic inch of water, or indeed of any other body. The
utmost limit to human ingenuity in weighing is about l-10000th part of
our comparative unit of weight, or grain ; but in this quantity so many
circumstances lead to error as to render the result very unsatisfactory.

The finger held over a scale, which by its warmth causes currents which
exert a force contrary to that of the earth, will materially influence the
result in very small weights. 1 have tried this experiment with an excel-
lent pair of scales, made for the Bank of England by Mr. Bate, and found
a most sensible disturbance of the equilibrium of the balance when the
finger was held half an inch above one of the scale-pans." P. 24.
      The next point which Mr. Smee adverts to is the fact that the force of
No. XII.]                       APPENDIX.                          201

attraction   is always exerted in    a peculiar   direction,  a series of which
attractions  constitutes polarity ;  and " this  peculiarity  in the direction of

the force, whereby attraction is exerted, is of fundamental importance, for
it enables us to oppose one attraction by another. This opposition of

attraction enables us to effect decomposition, disintegration, and to give
rise to the phenomena of heat, light, sound, &c., at will."

      The author now proceeds to examine seriatim the various properties
of matter, and to show how they are derived from simple attraction ; and
the first of those which he touches upon is what is called impenetrability,
which literally means that two bodies cannot occupy the same space at the

same time. This     he explains thus :   is  conferred  on matter  by the act
      " The reason  why impenetrability
of attraction is perfectly evident, if the mode of the generation of attraction
be carefully examined. The attraction being exerted in a certain direction,

one particle of matter, although capable of being attracted so as to adhere

firmly to a second portion, would, if the second passed into the first,
instantly be destroyed, because the direction of attraction exerted in one

atom would oppose, neutralize, or counterbalance the attraction in the
other. The attraction, therefore, between two atoms is most violent at

contact, but ceases upon one having a tendency to pass into the other.
The above observations will be rendered perfectly intelligible by the
following notation :

                                     NP NP

                                     oo

"If the two O O represent the two atoms, and the NP NP the ends of

the forces with which they are held together, then the very moment one

atom had a tendency to pass into the other, the two ' N ' or the two ' P '

would oppose each other ; upon that account the two particles would be

firmly attracted till they came in contact, but no further." P. 26.

Having briefly alluded to shape, he next comes to the volume of bodies,

which he shows  to be far from an    inherent fixed  epxerortpeedr.ty,"bWutemhearevely  to
depend on the   energy with which    attraction is                                      no

proof that matter possesses any absolute volume, for, under different cir-

cumstances, the same number     of particles exhibits   very various volumes."
      " Yolume, from the above  consideration, seems     rather a negative than
a positive quality. It is the absence, or the comparative absence, of

attraction ; for as the force increases, the volume diminishes. The advan-

tages of thus viewing the nature of volume are multifold. It does not

require the creation of ' repulsion ' to separate particles attracted together,

and it overcomes numerous difficulties which arise from the assumption of

a certain size to the ultimate particles of matter. From this view, which
is forced upon us from multitudinous evidence, one atom of matter, if
alone, and unacted upon by any other atom, would fill the universe."

P. 28.

He next speaks of the science by which size and measure are estimated.

The following observations, on the impossibility of finding a standard unit

of measure, are interesting enough :
      " But as our organs of sense cannot appreciate the ultimate particles
of matter, we never can arrive at, or obtain, an absolute standard of size ;

on this account we are compelled to take a certain piece of matter under
202  APPENDIX.  [No. XII.

definite conditions of attraction as unity, and by multiplying or sub-
multiplying it we obtain all other measures proportionate to that unit.
The Legislature formerly thought fit to take three barleycorns from the
middle of the ear, from which they formed a measure called an inch. Of
course a unit derived from anything so uncertain as three barleycorns is
most unsatisfactory, for every measure thus made would doubtless vary.

       " The greatest anxiety has been felt by all nations to find some unit of
length to which at any time posterity might be enabled to refer all future
measures, but we have already seen that philosophers have been attempting
an impossibility. The French have taken that quadrant of the meridian
which passes through Fontenara and Greenwich, the middle of which is in
the 45th degree of latitude. This measure they have divided into ten

million parts, each part of which they constitute a comparative unit. In
assuming this measure, it is perfectly impossible exactly to obtain the

greater measure to divide, and even, in fact, we do not know whether the
earth, in a series of ages, may not slightly alter in form. The English
have assumed the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds in a particular
latitude as a unit of measure, but that assumption is highly objectionable,
because it infers the existence of something absolute in time, which is not
the fact. It, moreover, first requires us to ascertain or determine the
duration of a second, which will be as difficult for posterity as the determi-
nation of a measure for length. The length of the pendulum vibrating
seconds appears to vary not only in the same latitude, but even slightly,
from some unknown causes, in nearly the same spot ; and, moreover, no

two pendulums, of as nearly the same length as human ingenuity can form
them, will vibrate in exactly the same time. The best mode of making
and maintaining a new standard of measure for this country has lately
occupied the attention of the Government and philosophers, in consequence
of the former standards having been destroyed by fire in the Houses of
Parliament. Although three or four sets of these standards were then
made with the utmost human skill, philosophers cannot determine that

these duplicates are exactly similar to those destroyed. This forms an
excellent practical proof, not only of the impossibility of possessing an

absolute standard, but also the impracticability of using it if we obtained
it ; because, as we are unable to weigh below l-10000th of a grain, so we
are incompetent to measure below a certain amount. Probably, in

measuring, we can obtain rough results to the 1 -1000000th of an inch ; but
as the measures decrease in length, so the errors increase, as all measure-

ments must only be regarded as rough comparative approximations to truth.
      "Under these circumstances, we find that our standards are purely

arbitrary, and, therefore, the best mode that can be adopted is, to take
any arbitrary length, which should be as near the inch now adopted as
possible. This measure we should constitute our arbitrary unit, or inch,
to which all other measures should be referred. Several copies, that is, as
near as human ingenuity and skill can make copies, should then be formed,
and deposited in various places of security for reference. This artificial
unit, moreover, should be compared by different observers, and by different
iuBtruments, with all the most fixed things in the material world, so that
if, by any accident, the primitive artificial standard was lost, posterity
might be enabled to compare their measures with ours ; and though,
doubtless, they would never be able to obtain the exact relative size of our
No. XII.]                               APPENDIX.                         203

standard, yet they would be able, for all practical purposes, to have ample

knowledge of our measures. All other measures would be obtained either

by multiplying the inch, or expressing the relation in fractional parts of
it." P. 34.

      Referring to the same point, he observes further on :
      " Our standard inch is no longer of the same length, and therefore not

an inch if the temperature varies ever so little from that point at which

the standard was assumed ; but let the temperature vary ever so much, the
number of particles cannot be multiplied or diminished, it is only the size

that varies. In conducting the ordnance survey of England, the measures
were obliged to be most carefully adjusted for temperature or variation in
the thermometer. So also in adjusting the standard bushel, the difficulty
was found to be extreme, for it was found that the heat caused by a human
body coming near so large a bulk caused a sensible alteration in its exact
size." P. 39.

Having then spoken of the abstract ideas of length, breadth, cube, and
other geometrical properties of matter, he passes on to cohesion a state in

which a number of particles of the same kind of matter are attracted

toget"heBrodiinetso,"  a   mass.        " in a state of cohesion
                          he observes,
                                                                  resist  the action  of

other bodies presented to them to an extent proportionate to that cohesion.
Lead, in an extremely divided state, burns vividly upon simple exposure to

atmospheric air, whilst the same metal in a state of cohesion, or in a rolled

malleable state, undergoes but little change from long exposure. Spongy
platinum, and other metals in a finely-divided state, also have very different

properties from the same metals in a state of cohesion. There is no more

curious instance of the effects of cohesion than in the varieties of coke ;

for when tinder, the slightest spark will inflame it; when soft coke, it
readily burns; when hard coke, it can scarcely be made to ignite; but
when a diamond, it requires a skilful chemist to inflame." P. 44.
The threefold state in which bodies may exist solid, liquid, or

gaseous ; the various properties depending on the degree of attraction

such as hardness, softness, &c., are next spoken of in order ; and the author

having brought before our notice that attraction exerted between particles

of dissimilar matter known as chemical affinity, the remainder of the

chapter is occupied with the subjects of atomic weight, heterogeneous and

capillary adhesion, endosmosis, the attractions of gravitation and magne-

tism all of which topics are set forth in an equally novel, clear, and simple
manner. But we must hasten onwards from these to the third chapter, on

the sciences of the disturbance of attraction including electricity, mechanics,
hydrostatics, and pneumatics.

     "We have shown the mode in which attraction gives quality by
chemical affinity ; quantity, by the union of many atoms ; form, by the

mode in which the particles are united; size, by the intensity of the
attractive force ; and, lastly, position of masses by gravitation." P. 70.
      And we now have to see how these attractions may be disturbed or
destroyed by other attractions, acting in an opposite direction.
     In the study of the disturbance of attractions, he begins with con-
sidering the effects produced on a compound consisting of two elements,
when a third body is presented to it, which abstracts and combines with

one element, setting the other free.
204 APPENDIX.

Such a circle of atoms is called a voltaic circuit, and the apparatus in

which the action is performed, a voltaic battery.
      The decomposable substance, which forma the basis of the battery, is

called an electrolyte ; and the substance which decomposes it, by exerting a
strong attraction on one of its elements, is called the positive element of the
battery. The simplest idea of a voltaic circuit is presented by a particle of
water and a particle of zinc; in which the zinc presenting an attraction
for oxygen in the reverse direction to that of the hydrogen, the former
unites with the metal, the latter is given off. But

       " Had we no means of increasing the length of the interval between
the abstraction of one element of the electrolyte, by the new attraction
exerted between it and the positive pole and the evolution of the second
element, voltaic batteries would be but of little advantage. But we have
the power of increasing this interval indefinitely ; sometimes miles inter-

vene"bTehtweemenodtehoisne   two points.       this  interval  depends  upon  the  power
                            which we increase

of the new attraction exerted between the zinc and oxygen of the water, to
                 tendency to the destruction of the             old attractions of
propagate   the  oxygen through a series of particles
hydrogen   and                                                 of fluid. A second

point is then placed, at which the hydrogen, or second element, may be
evolved. This second point is the negative element." P. 75.
We thus see that the positive pole or element is the source of all the

phenomena manifested in the voltaic circuit. The degree of their energy
is the degree of chemical attraction exerted between that positive pole and

one element of the electrolyte. Whatever can be an obstacle to chemical

affinity can also be an obstacle to voltaic action.

These obstacles may be briefly stated thus :

First, there is the previous attraction existing between the two

elements of the electrolyte to be overcome. The best way of countervail-
ing this seems to be (supposing water the electrolyte as it generally is), to

place at the negative pole some substance, holding oxygen in a loose state

of combination, with which the hydrogen may combine at the moment

of its liberation; so that the hydrogen, finding a new affinity exerted
towards it, may be more ready to relinquish its oxygen to the zinc. This
is the theory of Professor Daniell's battery, in which sulphate of copper is

placed at the negative pole, and is reduced by the nascent hydrogen, and

of Mr. Grove's, in which the same purpose is effected by nitric acid.

     A second and third obstacle are offered by the force with which the

particles of fluid are kept in their situation, and by the force with which

the particles of metal cohere.

     A fourth is frequently presented by the formation of a new compound

at the positive pole (sulphate of zinc), which prevents the zinc from coming
into contact with the electrolyte.
      Hence it is evident that the measure of the intensity of the voltaic

circuit is equal to the excess of the attraction of the positive pole for one
element of the electrolyte, over the force exerted by these impediments.
Mr. Smee next speaks of the compound voltaic battery disposes very
summarily of that theory which attributes the production of electrical
effects to the contact of metals, and mentions the mode in which the

voltaic force effects the decomposition of binary compounds in a state of
solution ; and then treats at some length of tension, that is to say, " a desire
No. XII.]                         APPENDIX.                                  205

for action ungratified " a force contending with obstacles, ready to act,

but not actually in action.
      The effects of tension may arise from a variety of causes, since it is

always produced when a new attraction is offered, which is counteracted by
a previously existing one. The electrical machine is the instrument by
                                  of tension  is procurable.
which    the  greatest amount      generated   by the machine  arises  from  friction.
      "  The  electrical tension

Friction, we shall hereafter show, is the result of force force- of some new

attractions. Friction, therefore, being derived primarily from attraction,

may counterbalance other attractions. In the electrifying machine and all

its analogues, where friction is exerted, there must be more or less ten-

dency to the destruction of the attractions. This tendency may be called

the desire for action, which is opposed by the attraction of cohesion ; this
desire for action is the tension." P. 20.

The theory of the electrical machine, and the phenomena commonly

said to arise from induction of electricity, having been disposed of, our

author passes to a stupendous chain of phenomena, depending on the same

principle, of which we extract his explanation at some length :
      " Having considered galvanic tension and frictional tension, we have

next to describe lightning tension. The tension in this case is evidenced

between the surface of the earth on the one hand, and a cloud on the other,

the air being the imperfect conductor, at the surfaces of which the ends

of the tension are manifested; that is, one surface is positive, and the

other negative. The attraction which is the source of the tension, perhaps
present facts have hardly sufficiently proved. Still, when we perceive that
a rapid formation of clouds, of rain, and even hail, always accompanies

the phenomena, we shall not probably much err in attributing the effects

to the sudden attraction of aqueotis vapour into cloud, rain, or hail. This

new attraction, acting upon the air as a non-conductor, causes a polarity

of that air, which is communicated between the surface of the cloud on the

one hand, and that of the earth on the other. Such a mode of the forma-

tion of a thunder-cloud agrees well with the natural phenomena. It is

apparent, from such a cause, that the entire surface of the cloud on the one
hand, and the surface of the earth opposed to it on the other, would be in a

state"   of high tension     a result which is in perfect accordance   with the fact.
         The electrical   power capable of being exerted between       the cloud and
the earth is enormous. The intensity is so great, that it is capable of

passing through a thousand feet, or more, of air during the discharge.
The quantity is equally vast ; for the cloud and tension may be exerted

over very many square miles, occasionally even for 100 square miles. The

electrical effects being equal to the intensity (1000 feet of air) multiplied
by the quantity (100 square miles), will produce a result which, when com-
pared with the power of an enormous Ley den jar, the intensity of which
(half -inch air) is multiplied by 100 square feet, shows so wide a difference
that a comparison can scarcely be made. This difference, while it shows

to the presumptuous philosopher the vanity and impossibility of attempting
to produce this great phenomenon of nature, yet it amply demonstrates to

those who undervalue scientific investigation how, by paying attention to
minute experiments in the laboratory, the operations of nature may be

explained and comprehended. The lightning- cloud almost invariably

appears when rain follows long-continued easterly winds, which render
206             APPENDIX.                                              [No. XII.

the air and earth exceedingly dry; but occasionally the lightning-cloud
is formed when the surface of the earth is saturated with wet, and the
air highly hygrometric. In this latter case, a dense cloud is generally seen
to form in the atmosphere without any apparent cause ; with the utmost
rapidity, and within a few minutes, and sometimes within a few seconds
         appearance, hail, rain, and lightning follow.
of  its  The lightning-cloud sometimes expands itself   nearly
     "
                                                                  at the  place

where it is first formed ; and in this case, perhaps, the cloud and earth are
in an uniformly opposite state, which would have the effect, by virtue of
the attraction of oppositely electrified surfaces, of causing the cloud to be
retained in its position. Sometimes, however, without any wind, the cloud
takes a rapid travelling fit, crossing England in a few minutes, and paying
our French neighbours a visit, as we find by the account in the papers
the next day, striking and carrying devastation in its progress. Some-
times the cloud will travel away for two or three hours, and then travel
back; sometimes it will take a circular motion, and, in fact, the freaks
which a travelling cloud will pay are innumerable. The travelling cloud

may possibly owe its properties to an unequal tension at different parts ;
for if one end of the cloud, or the entire cloud, had an attraction to the
earth under this end, and in advance of it, the cloud would be drawn

towards that part ; but as there is a force which resists its direct down-
ward attraction to the earth, it moves in the diagonal of the force tending

to raise the cloud, and the force drawing all the cloud to one point, when

a motion more or less rapid must be the result. In this case we must
suppose that the earth under one end of the cloud as it advances imme-
diately assumes a violent tension." P. 102.

      The subjects next considered are the effects of the tensive electricity

exhibited by the thermo-electric and magneto-electric apparatus, and by
the hydro-electric apparatus, in which the force is generated apparently
by the friction of steam, a gigantic specimen of which is exhibited at the
Royal Polytechnic Institution. The remainder of the chapter is devoted to
dynamics force, its origin, and various modes of adaptation to the wants

of mankind. But this we pass over, in order to arrive at Chapter IV., on

the sciences of actions and reactions.
      Action is the exertion of new attractions ; reaction, the tendency to

the maintenance of old ones. When these two forces are nearly balanced,

vibrations ensue. Here let us show our author's idea of the nature of time,

and its essential dependence on matter. He observes, first of all, how
fortunate it is for the economy of the world that attractions meet with

opposition.
      " Former attractions act as an impediment to the exertions of the new

ones ; the energy of the desire for combustion, of carbon for oxygen in our

fires, is held at bay by the former attraction of the particles of coal, which

is gradually and progressively overcome. Our fires, therefore, burn

regularly and steadily, our candles with slowness and precision, and all

other actions, even to the railway engine, take place with an energy pro-

portio"nTahtee  to the resistance of the new action which causes  the  effect.  is
                energy with which a new attraction overcomes       an
                                                                       old one

called the time of its performance ; and, conversely, the energy of the

resistance to a new action by an old one is called the time at the attempt

of performance. Time, therefore, is the abstract idea of the energy of an
No. XII.]                                     APPENDIX.                          207

action and reaction. Time is, therefore, a strictly material property.

Without matter we could not have time, and even with matter the pheno-

menon of time requires for its manifestation some new attraction to over-

come an old one. The tendency of the action of the new attraction to

overcome the old one is called the commencement of a unit of time ; the
actual performance of the new attraction, after the destruction of the old
one, or the actual resistance of the new attraction by the old one, is called

the termination of a unit of time. The absolute performance or resistance

of a new action that is, its commencement and termination constitutes
an event, and, according to the energy of this event, it is said to be of
shorter or longer duration." P. 161.

      Having thus shown time to be a material property, its abstract idea to

be that of resistance to an action, and having treated of the instruments

for its measurement, he next reviews the effects produced by matter when

under    the influence   of  conflicting      forces.      in  a  quiet  state,  we have next
      "  Having seen    the  conditions       of matter

to examine its properties when in commotion ; and the sciences of commo-
tion, or rather of actions and reactions, which now fall under our notice,

are respectively those of heat, light, sound, and scent. All these terms
are abstract ideas of material actions and reactions, and there is no

imponderable or essence in either heat, light, sound, or scent, to which
matter owes its power of being hot, illuminated, noisy, or odoriferous."

P. 172.

      The first of these sciences is that of heat, which he believes to consist

in a peculiar vibrating condition of bodies, caused by the conflict of new

attra"ctWioensfinsde,ekiifngwetotaokeveracormeveiewformoferallonseosu.rces of heat, the phenomenon

is owing to some new attraction acting on a body, the particles of which

are held together by former attractions. A hot body is, therefore, a body

whose attractions are interfered with by other attractions, and heat is the

abstract term of this disturbance of attractions in a particular manner."

P. 173.

      The sources of heat next come under consideration : and, firstly, those
of the heat exhibited during electrical phenomena ; then a much more

famil"iaTrheandneixmt psoorutarcnet  source.  after  that  derived  from new attractions
                                     of heat

producing electrical forces, is that derived from the attraction of chemical

affinity. The phenomenon of heat is not manifested by the chemical union
of any two bodies, if the combination takes place without being impeded
                                     or if the other attractions are quietly
bIfy  the   other attractions,                                                   destroyed.
      the  combination takes         place with great energy, however, the       rapid ten-

dency to the destruction of attractions, reacting against the desire for

maintaining them, gives rise again to the phenomenon called heat. In the

combustion of coals, the rapid desire for the particles of coal to unite with

the oxygen of the air, acting upon the desire of the particles to maintain

their old attraction of cohesion, causes that heat to be manifested which so
comforts and cheers us in our dreary winter's night." P. 176.
      After describing the other sources of heat, and treating of its pro-

perties and conduction, &c., which are clearly and minutely detailed, he
passes to light and sound, which, like heat, depend on certain classes of
vibrations, perceptible by certain of our organs of sense. Odour he supposes
208                               APPENDIX.                                     [No. XII.

(but does not actually affirm) to depend, in all probability, on a like cause,
rather than on an emission of corporeal particles.

     He shows that an infinite number of these interesting, sense-affecting

actions may be going on in the universe continually, which our organs are
not fitted to recognize. We cannot discern the sights and smells which

are at once perceptible to the dog or hawk ; and no doubt there is an
unseen world, of countless sights and sounds, hidden from us, but revealed

to higher intelligences. Thus the teaching of philosophy is that also of

religion.                         how the seer, " falling                       into a trance, and
      Thus we can understand

having his eyes opened," could discern the horses and chariots of fire en-
camped about the tents of the righteous ; how the harmonious movements
                        may be attended with    music, inaudible
of the universe         the foundations of the  earth were laid ;               to mortal ears, since
the time when                                                                   " when the morning

Ifstars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy."

          we may recapitulate, we may observe that he commences with three

fundamentals matter attraction, the test of matter and number ; parti-
cles of matter being attracted together give rise to forni, volume, cohesion,

adhesion, position ; peculiarity in the direction of attraction causes crystal-
lization, polarity, magnetism ; attraction acting on attracted matter causes

tension and force ; force, by destroying attractions, causes decomposition
and the phenomena of electricity; the effects of force, counteracted by

the resistance of existing attractions, produce time, and vibrations; whose
results are heat, light, sound, and perhaps odour.

THE CONCLUDING CHAPTEES OF ' THE SOURCES OP PHYSICAL SCIENCE.'

                   On the Relation of the Material to the Immaterial.

     Having now traced the manner in which the material Tiniverse is
                   of   atthoamtst,heorteurmltim"amteattpearrt"icleiss,
c"ommaptotesre,d"  and                                                      to  which we give the name
                                                                         given    to whatever attracts, the

mind of man is naturally led to consider how and from what cause matter

attracts, and by that attraction produces all the varied phenomena
observed in the physical world.

     The first question that naturally suggests itself to the mind that
attempts this investigation is the probability which is given to the
attachment of some imponderable or essence to matter, by virtue of which
attachment the power to attract is bestowed on material particles. Such
                                  answered without much depth or profundity of
a question         appears to be  exerted attraction by virtue of some principle,
reasoning,
                   for if matter

essence, or imponderable attached to it, then would that principle exert
attraction without matter, or at least we cannot perceive why it should
not exert that property.

     From the general views that are forced upon us by our present mode
of studying physical phenomena, we must assume that attraction was first
exerted before new attractions would produce the effects of electricity,
galvanism, heat, light, sound, &c. As attraction must have preceded the
greater number of physical phenomena, we may also presume, or in fact
we must admit, that attraction itself had a commencement. And time
itself, we have already shown, is derived from an old attraction resisting
No. XII.]   APPENDIX.                                              209

a new one acting upon it. Each event, consequently, must have a com-
mencement and a termination. To increase the number of these events
will not assist us, for, how far soever we carry back the events, still their

character is immutable ; there must have been one event which was prior
to all others, and that first event must have had a beginning.

The beginning of the first event affecting matter was the primary
attraction, which the subsequent attraction sought to disturb; and the

great question which the human mind desires to speculate upon, is the

cause of this first exertion of attraction.
      The first exertion of attraction, probably, does not arise from any

principle attached to matter ; but still, even if it owed its power of attrac-

tion to an imponderable, the cause of the imponderable attaching itself

to matter would be the obscure point on which the human mind delights

to contemplate ; for the first exertion of attraction, however arising, would

alone give to matter its material properties, or, in fact, there would not

have been matter (according as we define matter) without the capacity of
its particles to set up attraction.

This power of matter to generate attraction in the first instance would

never have  arisen from anything inherent : we, therefore, are  Icfomwepelloleodk  to
admit that  from something extraneous it derived its power.                        at

the means necessary to endow matter with the property of attraction, we

are instantly astonished at the unbounded magnitude, magnipotence, and

magnipresence of that power; for we have evidence to show that that

Ifpower was evinced over enormous masses of matter separated by hundreds
of thousands of millions of miles.           that power is continually being

exerted, the Author necessarily appears as the Governor of material phe-
nomena ; but if the government of the world is continually being affected,

we discover that no variation has taken place in the general properties
evinced by matter since the world began : the earth still continues to run

its daily and yearly course ; matter continues to be hot, illuminated, and
capable of causing sound when acted on in a peculiar manner ; and, as far

as we can learn, not the slightest alteration has occurred since the earliest

human event was recorded.

      "Whether that power was in the first instance implanted for once
and for ever, or whether, by a continuance of the exertion of that power,
matter continues to attract, are subjects for contemplation far beyond the

capacity of human intellect to deduce from physical phenomena. We can

only admit that the same power which first caused matter to attract, may
also cause, at any given moment, that phenomenon to cease.

      To the source of" that immensity of power, which we see either has
been exerted once or which continues to be exerted, we attach the name of

the Creator or Almighty.
      The attributes of the Creator of all material particles naturally form

a subject of the most sublime contemplation for all beings endowed with
reason sufficient for that purpose. But here again we must refer to our
incapacity to enter into a subject so much beyond human understanding,
for man can only appreciate things which are material, and which, by
virtue of their properties, communicate impressions through material
organs to the human mind. We find that we cannot determine the
absolute attributes of the Deity from physical science, but only infer
certain attributes by not attributing to His divinity the pi*operties of

                                                                P
210         APPENDIX.                       [No. XII.

matter, which solely derives its properties through the exertion of His
power. In fact, nothing is more erroneous than the comparison of per-
fections in God with natural qualities in man. Out of this have arisen

Ifincalculable mistakes.              of matter, we find that its first property
            we review the properties
is number ; that the juxtaposition of units forms addition and multipli-
cation, and the mass of matter so formed is susceptible of diminution and
division. The material character of number forbids us to attach that
property to the attributes of the Almighty, for His attributes are clearly
immaterial, having no connection with the properties which His mighty
power caused matter to evince. Natural philosophy, therefore, teaches us
that the Almighty has no relation to number ; that, consequently, He is
indivisible and incapable of addition. For ages the greatest disputes have
arisen, and schisms and heresies sprung up throughout Christian com-
munities, by attributing the properties of
ferring material virtues on the Almighty.   number to the Deity, and con-

                                            It is equally incorrect to attach

unity as plurality to His indivisibility, for unity infers a possibility of
plurality, and, therefore, a possibility of being amenable to number, which
property matter solely derives from the will of the Creator.
     As we must discard the very idea of number as being an attribute of
God, so must we also deny the possibility of any attribute arising from
attracted number. We cannot, therefore, give to His majesty form or
size, for these are properties of His created matter. His presence, more-
over, cannot be limited to one spot, for position is a material effect. He

must extend over space, and consequently omnipresence must be a charac-

teristic attribute of His greatness.
     His omnipi'esence cannot be interfered with by the presence, in certain

positions, of created matter. Impenetrability is a property of matter,
perhaps by virtue of attraction, and therefore cannot interfere with the
Immaterial. The omnipresence of the Deity will not be prevented by

attracted matter: but He must be present in the structure of the
hardest stones, the most massy rocks; in fact, throughout the matter

of this great globe, and even throughout the matter existing over the

universe.

     The phenomena of electricity, of galvanism, of motion, are in similar

manner material actions, which alone have their existence by virtue of

attraction. The immaterial character of the Almighty forbids these
phenomena to be attached to His attributes ; indeed, we scarcely imagine
how the Deity, whose attribute is omnipresence, can have the property

of motion.

     As the material character of the preceding properties forbids their

assumption as an attribute of the Creator, so are we compelled to deny the
possibility of time, with its dependencies, to be a phenomenon to which the
Author of that time should be amenable. The Almighty consequently
could have no beginning, no end. Eternity is His distinguishing attribute ;
and time can have none, no, not even the feeblest quality of eternity.
Time, however exaggeratedly it may be increased, never becomes eternity ;
for time is made up of a series of events, each having a beginning and an
end. Eternity is not made up of events, and has therefore no beginning,

no end.

     The actions called heat, light, and sound, are similarly material,
No. XII.]  APPENDIX.  211

appertaining to particles of matter alone. The Maker of all things
cannot, therefore, be supposed to be subject to phenomena which exist
by His almighty fiat.

      We have thus seen, that whilst all the properties of matter are
strictly material, so the attributes of the Immaterial are purely immaterial.
Science, therefore, directs us to attach materiality to the material, im-
materiality to the Immaterial ; and by no means at any time, under any

circumstance, to confound the properties of matter with the attributes

of the Immaterial, or the attributes of the Immaterial with the properties

of matter.

     It is, then, the property of matter to attract, and by virtue of that
attraction to yield number, size, form, duration. It is the attribute of

the Immaterial not to yield number, to be omnipresent and eternal.
Matter attracts by virtue of power conferred upon it by the Immaterial.
Matter is matter by the volition of the Creator.

       The power which conferred attraction on matter is present not only
where matter is, but even where matter is not, inasmuch as position is a

material phenomenon. In consequence of that omnipresence, we may infer

that He is cognizant of every alteration of each respective particle of
matter, which omnicognizance is called the omniscience of the Deity.
Our material bodies allow certain expressions to be carried to the mind

through certain material organs called the senses, and therefore we only
appreciate those impressions which act upon those senses. His omni-
presence must know every single change, without respect to any material
conditions. His omniscience cannot be interfered with by darkness,
quiescence, or temperature. Darkness is no darkness with Him; the
stillness of an action cannot cause it to be hid from His observation. His

omniscience is derived from omnipresence, not from the properties of

matter from which man derives his knowledge.
       We, therefore, are compelled to admit and believe that matter owes

its properties to a power conferred upon it by the omnipresent, omni-
potent, omniscient, eternal Creator, who first by His Almighty fiat com-

manded matter to attract, and who, by the same Almighty fiat, may at
any instant will attraction to cease, when worlds would end, when time
would be no more. As far as regards all material properties, He must

have absolute power. At any moment He may dissolve the earth, the sun,

the moon, the stars, and as instantaneously summon their particles to
assume new shapes, to occupy new positions. This infinite power or
omnipotence is of a totally different character from our power, which is
derived from the properties of matter. Man's boasted power is derived
from availing himself of attraction. The Deity can control that property,
and from that we infer the attribute of omnipotence.

     It is useless to conceal that these great and glorious perfections are

 quite incomprehensible to our senses : we can only appreciate material
 impressions ; all else is quite incomprehensible to our mind. To say that
 God has no relation to number is as unintelligible as His omnipresence,
 His omniscience, or His eternity. We cannot conceive the nature of such

 attributes, though we are compelled to believe them because we cannot

 conceive that such attributes should not exist.
        What other attributes belong to the Almighty we are incapable of

 ascertaining by physical science ; and even the contemplation of these, we
                                                                                                 p2
212  APPENDIX.  [No. XII

must admit, will suffice to fill our minds with an amazement productive

of reverence, submission, and humility
       Conclusion. We live in a material world, and can only converse with

matter ; everything we treat of is material. We can only use material
properties to effect material phenomena; and our very existence here
depends upon a series of material events taking place in our own bodies,

for if these events do not take place, other actions ensue which end in
decomposition. An event of definite energy we call a unit of time, and

the total of events, taking place in our own bodies in our present condition,
we term the period of life. Time itself, therefore, is a material phenomenon,

depending solely on material properties.
       But whilst man can only clearly understand material phenomena, and

use matter to give rise to material effects, and thus conduct his affairs,
yet he has the power, by virtue of an immateriality in his own constitu-
tion, to perceive indistinctly through a veil the existence of an Immaterial
to whom matter and all material phenomena owe existence. The attri-
butes of the Creator of matter are, indeed, in this world quite beyond
the comprehension of man's faculties ; and the attributes which man is
compelled to attach to the Almighty are but positive expressions for the
absence of the properties of matter, which are solely derived from His
Almighty will.

      Having completed our inquiries into the sources of physical science,
we have found that man has no conception of matter without the existence
of a Supreme Being, who endowed it with properties, i.e. caused it to be
matter. We have seen that no imponderable attached to matter gives it
its properties, but that they are evolved simply from the will of the
Almighty. That which gives to matter properties is the will of God, and
we have before mentioned that man can have no conception of matter
without that to which it owes its property.

      As we can form no idea of matter apart from its Creator, so in our
present state, living in a material world, and being ourselves partly imma-
terial, partly matter, we cannot form any clear conception of the Almighty
totally apart from His works. From natural science, man only knows God
as being the Creator and Maker of all material things ; but hereafter,
when man shall rise again and assume a higher condition, he shall under-
stand these glorious mysteries apart from all created matter.

      We have seen that all physical subjects depend on the existence of the
Supreme Being, the Creator of matter, from whose will matter is. We
have seen that matter is that which attracts; that particles of matter
under attraction give to masses of matter their properties; and that
this attracted matter, being acted upon by new attractions, produces all

physical effects.

       Physical science depends on matter, and its property, attraction ; and
the great problem for man to solve, when he desires to perform his various
operations, is comprised in the effect which attraction produces on at-
tracted matter. The object of this volume has been to contribute to the
solution of this problem, and to condense the foundations of human know-
ledge into so small a compass, that the reader from its perusal, by simply
having attraction and attracted matter, may be able, at will, to give rise to

Iall physical phenomena.

      As a summary of the sources of physical science, have drawn up the
No. XIII.]                     APPENDIX.                                                     213

accompanying table to show at one view how physical phenomena may be
produced, and how the entire range of physical studies constitutes physical

science.

      Matter is matter, and solely exists by the will of God, Matter is
made up of finite particles or atoms ; a series constituting number, and

the study of number arithmetic.

                                                            Form,
                                                            Yolume,

Particles of matter attracted together                      Composition,
   give rise to                                             Cohesion,
                                                            Adhesion,

                                                            Position.

Peculiarity in the direction ot attrac- J pCryi sta-Allization,
tions produces
                                                        (Magnetism.
Attraction acting on attracted matter j Tension, a tendency for action.
                                                        | Force, a capacity for action.
causes                                                  ( Galvanic phenomena,

                                                            Electric phenomena,

Force, by destroying the attractions { Electro-magnetic phenomena,
of attracted matter, exhibits                               Motion,

                                                            Disintegration,

                                                            Decomposition.

The results of force, in consequence
of the resistance of old or previously
                                                            OScT.-,od1.,u^on,udr,,' (/Q?N).
.....pehx, eisntoinmgenaattcraalcletidons, produce the
.........Tmh,eesxe,h.i,b,lai..tt,ter,                       Thdae,neds,,etrft,ufh,ececttriseoino. oreof,i. 'faoctratcrpeaacctii,-otg.1yneJsn.tieorrallAtyhe;
            b, e.ing t,h, e resul7t, of fporce,         I
                                                        <
                                                         |

                                   No. XIII.

INTRODUCTORY LECTURE DELIVERED AT THE ALDERSGATE
      SCHOOL OF MEDICINE. By ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S., Lecturer on

      Surgery at the Aldersgate School, Surgeon to the Royal General
      Dispensary, to the Central London Ophthalmic Institution, to the
      Bank of England, to the Provident Clerks' Mutual Benefit Associa-
      tion, &c. &c. (From the ' Medical Times,' October 5, 1844.)

GENTLEMEN, The solemn occasion for which we are this day col-
lected together, is to inquire into the nature of the studies necessary for
the education of a gentleman, to enable him to practise medical science.
You will doubtless consider that it will suffice for me simply to enumerate
the views of those associations of great men who, in different countries,
preside over the members of the medical profession; but, unfortunately,
on a more careful examination into their proceedings, we perceive that the
214                      APPENDIX.  [No. XIII.

Faculty of Medicine of Paris refused leave to Ambrose Pare to print his

Iwork on the application of ligatures to arteries after operation. This

invention, have no hesitation in asserting, is the most important prac-
tical application of science for the purposes of the surgeon which has
ever been submitted to the world, and yet, instead of being fostered by the
distinguished men of the age, it was opposed, and never would have com-
municated its benefits to the unhappy victims of amputation, had not
private interest been made with the king to allow the work to be printed,
and thus confer its blessings on mankind. Nor is this a solitary instance.
Did not the College of Physicians of London oppose the Royal Medico-
Chirurgical Society an association of the medical practitioners of this
country, unrivalled for the extent of information that it has disseminated
amongst those who devote their time to practise the healing art ? The
College of Surgeons, moreover, have looked with a jealous eye on that
great University of London, which promises, by the talent which it has
fostered, to effect great results for the improvement of our profession.
These extraordinary instances of ill-directed authority, by men of the
highest reputation in their day, show that we must receive with care their
edicts, and, instead of taking for granted that the medical education they

require is that best suited to make a practitioner of medicine, we must
examine for ourselves a subject of such fundamental importance to the

whole community.
      Disregarding, then, the orders of human councils, we must take

Nature for our guide, and, as a preliminary inquiry, we must study the
relation of man to the external world. Now, on a most cursory view of

those objects which are presented for our examination, we perceive that

bodies divide themselves into two great divisions one set in which no
changes are taking place, and another in which continual alterations are
occurring. These two sets of bodies we call respectively things with life,
or organic things ; things without life, or inorganic things.

      Let us take as a type of a lifeless thing this piece of ice, and consider
its qualities. We know that it is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen, in

fact an oxide of hydrogen, the two elements being held together by the

force of attraction. No change is taking place between these elements,
but it possesses its individual characteristic by virtue of that attraction.
As long as that attraction exists, it is still oxide of hydrogen, but a
destruction of that attraction, or a supervention of a new one, would cause
Iit to be no longer an oxide of hydrogen, but some other body.
                                                                may act
upon this compound by external forces, and cause it to assume either the
liquid or gaseous state, but it is still an oxide of hydrogen ; and unless
I destroy the attraction existing between the oxygen and hydrogen, it
Iremains the same body.  can in the same way make this body hot,
Iluminous, electrical, or vibrating, without any alteration in its composi-

tion. might divide it to its finite particle, or increase its bulk inde-
finitely, but still its characteristic as an oxide of hydrogen would not be

impaired.

      An inorganic body, then, possesses matter and force ; the force being
only exerted between its own particles. Other matter indeed may act
upon this matter, though it would not contribute in any way to produce
its individual existence. To express these facts in the fewest words and

most comprehensive manner, we may state that an inorganic body is a
No. XIII.]                   APPENDIX.                               215

body which exists by means of forces exerted between the particles of

matter of which the mass is made up.

Proceeding onwards in our investigation, we perceive another class of
bodies said to be organic, the particles of which are continually under-

going some change of arrangement. The most simple division of this

Iclass of bodies is to be found in vegetables or plants, samples of which
now present to your notice in the India-rubber tree, the black-tea plant,
and the beautiful filmy fern. We find that the material has tenacity and

form, from a certain amount of the particles of which they are composed

being held together by internal forces similar to those of inorganic bodies.

In this respect stones and plants are identical ; both having matter and
internal forces. In the latter, however, we have continual changes occurring,

and the mechanism of this change gives to the vegetable its characteristic

property. In every plant we find that it is essential to vitality that it

should contain not only a solid portion, but also a fluid : hence a plant is
in two physical states, solid and fluid ; in other words, it consists of stem
and sap. Neither part alone exhibits any signs of life; a combination of
both being required for that object. But the stem and sap, as a whole,
will not exhibit change by means of forces generated alone within its own
structure, for we find it to be essential for these results that external

forces should act upon the whole plant to enable these alterations in the

arrangement of its particles to ensue. The absolute necessity for the

Iexertion of these external forces may be learnt from the fact, that if
either increase or diminish the amount requisite for each plant, the
actions immediately cease ; and if they cease but for one instant, the matter
                                                  ever make it
becomes  inorganic,  and no human      power can                  take on the
changes  occurring   in the vegetable  or plant.  If either this  India-rubber
tree or tea-plant were frozen, its action would cease for ever; and in
the same way, if this delicate filmy fern, or even the other plants, were

either to be over-heated or stimulated too highly by light, electricity or

force, they would certainly perish. We thus find that a plant is a body
held together by internal forces in two physical states, solid and fluid,
undergoing certain changes by means of the action of external forces. As

a consequence of this arrangement, a plant cannot be indefinitely divided ;
for to possess the characteristics of a plant it must retain all these essen-
tials, and we cannot divide it if we desire to preserve its individuality
beyond a single cell. As a short expression for the difference between

plants and stones, we may state that a plant is a body whose particles are
Iundergoing change from the action of forces from without. This pro-

perty, shall hereafter show you, is common to all organic bodies, so that

definition can only be used to ascertain whether a body is a mineral or a

vegetable. This expression harmonizes with the phenomena observed in

all the numerous forms of plants habitating the globe ; one plant differing
from another not by its possessing some new attribute, but from a differ-
ence in the nature of the matter which composes its structure, the degree

of force holding that matter together, the ease with which its particles

assume new combinations, and the amount of external force required to

effect that change.   Every  species of plant of necessity requires   a peculiar
amount of external   force.                                          cracks and
                             If the filmy fern which inhabits the
crannies of the rocks at Tunbridge Wells were exposed to the light
which this tea-plant requires, it would speedily be killed, and this tea-
216               APPENDIX.  [No. XIII.

plant would very ill bear the shade absolutely required by this little

fern.

    IHaving thus given you a rapid and cursory sketch of the properties of

plants, must now direct your attention to another division of organized

Ibodies, which we term animals. In the diagrams which cover these walls,

every form of animal known to Cuvier is delineated, and have selected
as an illustration of a living animal, this interesting little creature, the

English dormouse. Here we" again perceive the integral or component
matter to be held together by internal forces, as we have before noticed in
plants and vegetables. We observe, also, changes taking place in th"e
arrangement of the particles, through the agency of external forces, as was
before exemplified in the examination of the vegetable kingdom. We not
only observe these things, but we notice that external forces acting upon
the body of an animal make an impression which is not transitory, but is
retained to influence the result of subsequent impressions. This registra-
tion of impressions gives rise to the effect of memory, which influences, in
an important manner, the proceedings of the animal ; for when external
forces act upon the body, the effect of these forces is modified by ante-
cedent impressions. The choice of action between present and past im-
pressions we call volition, which is to be observed throughout the entire
range of animal bodies; you may even observe it in the Hydra viridis,
a polyp common in the neighbourhood of London ; but an animal whose

Istructure is so simple, that it has been described as a mere fleshy bag.

        will no longer occupy your time by narrating instances of actions
from past impressions, in the animal kingdom, but will simply state, as a
short expression of these facts, that the animal kingdom is peculiar in
acting, not only from present, but from registered or past impressions :
this property is common, not only to animals, but to man, and therefore

can only serve as a mark to distinguish the animal from the plant or

Imineral.
         have now arrived at the more important part of my subject the
study of man himself and there is as much difference to be observed

between man and animals as between animals and plants, or even between

plants and minerals. On examining his structure we find a material

frame, the particles being aggregated together, and exhibiting form and

volume ; these properties are due entirely to the particles of matter being
held together by internal forces, as in animals, plants, or stones. We find

that the matter composing his body is in two physical states, the solid and

fluid, at the same time, and that changes are continually taking place, by

reason of the influence of external forces, as we have already observed, in

plants and animals. Man, moreover, we notice to act upon registered or
past impressions, as animals are known to do. Man, however, exhibits

Ihigher powers, and to these powers have now to call your attention. If
I take this piece of potassium and throw it into a basin of water, you

perceive that it inflames, which inflammation is caused by its exerting a
Ipowerful attraction upon the oxygen of the water, and setting free gaseous

hydrogen. In this experiment am using the power of attraction, and
using it to overcome other attractions. Now the employment of this

Ipower is far beyond the sphere of any animal, and can only be exerted by
man. (Applause.)  could give you other instances of the application of
attraction, as the use of a weight to set in motion a clock, but one instance
No. XIII.J    APPENDIX.                                    217

Iof the exertion of a power will amply suffice for my purpose ; can

employ light to give rise to certain actions. On the table before you lie

daguerreotypes, calotypes, cyanotypes, chrysotees, enargyotypes, photo-
graphs, produced by the action of light. Man alone can use light, and in
the instances before you it even required such men as Daguerre, Herschel,
Fox Talbot, and Hunt, to turn the force to account. (Applause.) We all
of us use heat ; in fact, no meal is prepared without its agency. From
the manufacture of the homely bread to the preparation of the most costly
Iviands, this force is equally requisite for man ; and yet what animal can
or does employ this force of matter ?  will show you a somewhat
mysterious application of heat, if you will please observe the head of the

worthy god which was placed by the builder in this theatre for orna-
ment. You will perceive that an explosion will occur. The explanation
of this explosion is simple a wire was previous to the lecture placed

I Iaround this theatre, and when requested your attention to the image
completed a galvanic circuit, and the force generated in this battery was

Itransmitted through the wires, and produced heat where wanted it,
Inamely, at the top of that figure. There, before lecture, had placed some
gunpowder, which exploded on the application of the heat.
INor are these forces alone obedient to the power of man.  will
Ishow you how we can use the power of electricity; will connect this
electro-magnetic machine with the battery, and you will see the result.
The rapidity with which it turns is enormous, and it affords a prac-
tical application of the power of man to use electricity. You can

Ihardly view that beautiful bas-relief without admiring the sculptor's

design ; but when tell you that specimen, the largest yet executed, was
deposited, atom by atom, by means of the galvanic force, you will admit

the power of man to use electricity. Other examples are on the table ;

those beautiful solid electro-silver and electro-silver-gilt waiters, made

from the natural vine-leaf, show the power of man to employ this force.

We daily use ordinary force. The model of the locomotive engine on

the table is brought here to impress that fact on your mind ; but, as you

Imust all be practically conversant with railway engines, have not
thought it necessary to set the model in action.

Man can also employ the force of sound, of which a musical snuff-

box is an instance ; but perhaps the use of the porter's bell, to signify
the commencement of this lecture, suffices for an illustration of man's

Ipower to employ this force.
         have thus demonstrated that man can employ attraction, heat, light,
electricity, force, and sound, to act upon matter ; but, doubtless, you will
tell me the electric eel kills his prey by electricity, the glow-worm lights
its lamp, animals in their own bodies generate heat, and the merry cricket
gives rise to cheerful notes. All these creatures, however, only employ
the forces which arise from peculiar structures in their bodies man gives
Irise to these forces. The electric eel uses the electricity generated in the

organ, which now exhibit to you, called the battery; the glow-worm
furnishes light by the peculiar organization of the last two segments of
the body. Man, however, makes the battery man makes the candle,

Iso that man causes matter to produce light, heat, and the various other
forces which  have enumerated a power which no animal possesses.

(Applause.)
218  APPENDIX.                                      [No. XIII.

     Nor is man's power limited to the application of these forces upon

inorganic matter alone, but lie can use them also to influence vegetation.
Regard these little wild crabs, and see how cultivation has converted the
Isame fruit into this large apple. Look also at these common hedge-nuts,
changed by cultivation into the delicious filbert.  need hardly say that

this power is only possessed by man.
     Animals are as much under the power of man as plants are ; he can
improve their breed, and reduce them to subjection. The common use of

horses is an example of that nature. One animal, however, cannot employ
another animal. Who, for instance, ever saw an elephant drawn by camel-
leopards ? (Applause.) And yet, we might readily forget that the sub-

jection of animals belongs to man alone.
     We have now shown that man can employ heat, light, attraction,
electricity, sound, the vegetable and animal bodies. Now, what is the

nature of these powers which he uses ? Attraction is an abstraction of

a material property ; heat is the same ; so is electricity, sound, force, &c.
The powers of animals and vegetables are in like manner the results of

matter. We may, therefore, class all these powers together by stating,
that man can employ matter to act upon other matter ; man is not confined
to the use of any particular piece of matter to produce these results, but
any piece of matter will equally suit his purpose. We therefore find that
man takes a higher stand, for he employs abstractions arising from the

properties of matter.
      To recapitulate the leading phenomena exhibited by man, we find that
he is composed of integral matter, held together by internal forces ; that
the matter is in two physical states, solid and fluid ; that actions are con-

tinually taking place by reason of external forces ; that he acts not only

upon immediate but upon bygone or antecedent impressions. In all these
conditions, however, he is similar to animals ; but the human being has

the power of acting upon an arrangement and combination of simple
material impressions, or, in other words, he acts upon their abstractions.
To separate man from all other material bodies, we may define him to be a

being acting upon the abstractions of material impressions.

     In all human operations, matter must be employed, but man can only
use the properties with which matter is endowed; he can neither add a
new property, nor subtract an old one. Man's power, then, is confined to

the use of the properties of matter ; but though he cannot control matter,
he perceives there must be a Supreme Power which in the first instance

caused matter to have properties, and who, by the exertion of the same
power, may will these properties to cease, or new ones to supervene. The
contemplation of the Great Controller of the powers of matter forms the
limit of the investigations of medical science, for at that point medical

science ends and natural theology begins.
      We are now in a condition to determine the means which are in our
hands to act upon the human body. We can act upon it directly, by
matter, through its power of attraction. We can act upon it also by heat,
light, electricity, force, sound, as in the case of animal, vegetable, or
mineral bodies. We have, however, another power by which we can act
upon man we may act upon his mind by abstractions. The influences of
mental impressions may be inferred from deaths occurring from joy, fear,

or other strong emotions. Let me, however, warn you and entreat you
No. XIII.]     APPENDIX.                              219

never to employ a false mental impression, as the effects of employing
false mental impressions are most dangerous. Here is a charm which is
supposed effectually to ward off all ill, physical or moral, from a child so

protected. It consists of the berries of the mountain-ash, tied round with

red thread, with the following couplet :

               " Rowan tree, and red thread,
                  Drives the witches at their sped."

IHere are amulets used for a similar purpose.  show you also an Abraxas,

a power presiding over 365 others, which is supposed to have wonderful

Iefficacy. Here are the casts of all the royal-touch pieces known at the

British Museum; and am enabled to exhibit to you an original coin
from the museum of the great London antiquary, Mr. Charles Roach Smith :

this, although as recent as the reign of Queen Anne, has been so much
worn, to ward off the dreadful scourge of scrofula, that the impression is

quite abraded. Here is a cast of a touch-piece of the Pretender, who, think-

ing that he had right to the English crown, had also equal right to confer

the royal cure by touch. Do not think that spells, charms, or superstitions
Iare at an end. In your professional career you will frequently be astonished
at their use.  hold in my hand an engine of that chai'acter, called an

Homoeopathic Medicine Chest (applause), which has already produced so

many cures, according to the statement of its owner, that their enumeration

Iwould occupy me till to-morrow. In an examination of the chest this

morning, perceived the bottle labelled camphor had no odour ; that of

musk had lost, in a similar manner, its physical properties a single grain
of musk will fill a large room with odour for twenty years, and yet here
Iwas not the slightest scent to be discovered. The idea flashed across my

mind, that these little globules were all made alike, and transferred over
to the laboratory about 100 globules, containing two or three substances

which were not likely to have become injured by keeping, and the presence
of which could most readily be detected. The united skill of two or

three chemists failed to demonstrate by ordinary means the smallest

trace of the assumed substances. (Much applause and laughter.) The
evidence on this point is negative ; but yet it appears to me improbable,
that 100 globules should contain a substance easy of detection, and yet not

give immediate indication to chemical tests.

    I do not doubt that the owner really effected cures with this chest ;
Inor do doubt that the amulets, abraxas, and royal touch-pieces, produced,
Iin some cases, a similar effect ; but do most earnestly warn you never to
lend yourself to produce a false mental impression, for the human mind
Ihas been in the bondage of astrology and witchcraft, and may again

return to its former degraded position. Look, pray you, at this book ;
see how accurately it gives the position of the stars for good and evil,
when to apply medicine, to stop a flux, or to cause a purge, and let that be

sufficient to warn you from the horrible effects of superstition, and deter

you from ever using charms, amulets, homo3opathic globules, the com-

bination of stars, or any other mental abominations.

Man is composed of integral matter, held together by internal forces,
so that the first investigation that we must imdei'take is, to inquire into
the nature of the matter, and the character of the forces. This study
220  APPENDIX.                                           [No. XIII.

constitutes chemistry, a class at this school under the care of Mr. Makins ;
Iand let me urge upon you the necessity of chemical knowledge.
                                                                speak

as one who has been considered by medical practitioners to have devoted

Itoo much time to this science ; but must say that on no subject do
I now feel my ignorance so much as on this. Chemistry is not only of
paramount importance to medical practice, but is an ornament in every
rank of life. The manner in which this matter is actually arranged con-
stitutes general anatomy, a subject which is in the hands of Dr. Goodfellow,
whose acquirements in this department are too well known to require any

comments from me. The surgical anatomy, another department of the study

of the matter of the human body, is taught by Mr. Holthouse and Mr.

Chance ; and the study of the actions taking place in man, or physiology, is
under Mr. Holthouse, with whom you are already personally acquainted.
You would naturally expect that, man's characteristic being mind, the study
Iof mind would occupy our especial attention ; but perhaps you will not be

astonished, when state that neither the opponents of Fare's discovery,
nor those of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, have considered that the study

of the human mind is in the slightest degree requisite. The practical
effect of their determination is, that madness is of no consequence, its
treatment of no importance. Do not believe them : regard the ordinances

of nature, not those of man ; and make yourselves thoroughly acquainted
with the properties of the mind, in health and disease. The agents which

we employ to affect the human body are called Materia Medica, comprising
matter, forces, and mental impressions. This department we have entrusted

to Dr. Garrod, a gentleman who has obtained the highest honours in the
prosecution of his studies, and whom we may also believe will receive
corresponding success in carrying them out. The practice of physic, or
the exact application of medical agents to particular diseases, is, as hereto-
fore, still under the care of Dr. Aldis and Dr. Grant ; and now you will
have ample opportunities of observing the actual practice of these gentle-
Imen at their respective institutions. The surgery, gentlemen, has been

confided by my colleagues to my charge ; and when consider that in this
theatre almost every distinguished man in London, of this century, has

Ilectured, feel deeply impressed with the importance of the duties which
I Ihave to perform, but promise in sincerity and truth, that to the utmost
Iof my abilities will endeavour to discharge my duties, to your instruction
and benefit. There are certain collateral branches, as botany and com-

Iparative anatomy, which are under the care of Dr. Brown, and may state
the latter course is gratuitous. Forensic medicine, or that part of medical

science which is especially connected with the courts of law, is in the

hands of Dr. Sewell, a gentleman whom, you doubtless are aware, has, in

the prosecution of his studies, received the highest rewards for his industry

and talents, and whom we consider a valuable adjunct to our staff. The

last class, or that of obstetric medicine, one of the utmost importance to
the general practitioner, will be undertaken by Mr. Druitt, known to
the world as the author of the ' Surgeon's Vade Mecum.'

     Gentlemen, the study of our profession divides itself into two depart-

ments, science and practice. Science leads to the honours of the profession,

practice to the emolument ; but the really great man must combine science
with practice. The lecturers of this school have been extremely anxious

to afford you every opportunity of observing disease, and to further that
No. XIV.]      APPENDIX.                                                            221

object they have determined to throw open, without additional charge, the
practice of the several institutions to which they are respectively attached.
"We have opened to you a chest infirmary, an eye institution, and portions

of the practice of seven dispensaries. At these institutions, eleven clinical
clerks will be appointed from this school. At these charities, you will see
diseases as you will have to treat them in after-life : you will see them
under the same circumstances of position and state, and you will have
most ample opportunities of making yourselves acquainted with diseases

I Iin all their multifarious forms.

       trust you will excuse me if say a few words upon the relation which

we are desirous should exist between the teachers and pupils. We are

one and all desirous that free intercourse and communication should con-

tinually take place between us. We wish you to regard us as students

further advanced in that knowledge, the end of which we can never
attain. Whatever you would ask of a friend, ask of us, as your teachers,
and nothing will please us so much as continually to contribute to

your welfare.
You are about to enter, gentlemen, upon the study of the most
exalted profession. Every moment of your life will be spent in the

study and observation of nature. The most intimate structure of the
human body will be exposed to your view, and the innermost recesses of
the human mind will be revealed to you. Every moment of your life will

be spent in doing good, and contributing to the happiness and welfare of
your fellow-creatures ; day by day you will receive the praises and heart-
felt thanks of gratitude for your aid in the time of danger and disease.
Let me not deceive you, gentlemen ; do not think you will attain eminence

without the most incessant labour and the most unremitting attention ;
and you will find, with all your exertion, your utter inability to master the

Isubject you have taken in hand. Delighted with  "evSeurcyhstkenpoywoluedmgeakeis,  you
                                                                                    too
will, in the language of the Psalmist, exclaim,
wonderful and excellent for me, cannot attain unto it."

       [NOTE. The lecture throughout was profusely illustrated with
specimens of the power of man, and the room presented generally an
imposing appearance, from a display of beautiful examples of the novelties
of science.]

                                     No. XIV.
ON THE DETECTION OF NEEDLES, ETC., IN THE HUMAN

      BODY. Lecture delivered at the Aldersgate School of Medicine,

       December 9th, 1844.

WHEN the foreign body, retained in the wound, is either iron or steel,
we have means by which we may readily and effectually determine its
presence. Portions of steel are particularly liable to be introduced into
the body, in the shape of needles, or as parts of cutting instruments ; and,
222                                 APPENDIX.                                                      [No. XIV.

Iespecially in the former case, cause irremediable injury. Some time since,
   had a case under my care, where a small portion of a needle was
introduced into one of the joints of the finger, but of which no indication

existed beyond the effects which might have been expected from the
presence of a foreign body. The exact spot of its insertion was unknown ;
and indeed it was equally uncertain whether it was inserted or not.
Subsequently the joint swelled, suppurated, and discharged, and a small
piece of needle was found firmly impacted in the bone. Now, a very small
piece of foreign matter is capable of producing these disastrous results ;

Iand, on having weighed the piece discharged in this case, found that it
| Iscarcely amounted to the of a grain. To this case shall again draw your
Iattention, when come to my lectures on the diseases of the joints, because
it showed accidentally, on the human subject, the course of the inflam-
mation and suppuration of the part, the subsequent ulceration of the

cartilages and osseous tissue, and, finally, the course of the reparative
process, by the termination of the inflammation by anchylosis. On
reference to my note -book, for the purpose of studying this case, it

Ioccurred to my mind that, had known that the needle was actually
Ipresent, and could have demonstrated its exact spot, might possibly

have averted the present inconvenience of a stiff joint to the unfortunate

sufferer ; and, after having carefully considered the matter, a plan
suggested itself to my mind for the detection of needles in future cases.
You are all acquainted with the curious condition which steel assumes
under certain circumstances, whereby it evinces properties which are

called magnetic ; you know, moreover, that like magnetic poles repel, and
opposite attract each other. You have, therefore, but to render a piece
of enclosed steel a magnet, and you will be able not only to ascertain

its presence, but to determine by its polarity its general direction;
and, by the amount of magnetism it evinces, you may even infer its pro-

bable bulk.

     When you suspect the presence of a piece of needle, or other steel

instrument, you must subject the suspected part to a treatment calculated

to render the needle magnetic ; and there are two principal methods by

which this object may be effected : the first, by transmitting a galvanic

current, at right angles, to the suspected part ; the second, by placing a
large magnet near the part affected, so that the object may be magnetized
by induction. You may accomplish the first end by taking a copper wire,
covered with cotton, or still better with silk (in fact, you may employ the
covered wire as generally used for the formation of electro-magnets), and

                                      wind it round the parts suspected to contain

                                    steel, several times, so that the same current

                                    may act at right angles, many times, upon

                                    the piece of steel; you may then take a
                                    galvanic battery (one of my little tumbler
   FIG. 11. Covered Wire, as gene-  batteries will amply suffice), and connect one
rally used for the formation of
Electro-Magnets.                    pe n,ladti.onfi.zethd.e.  wire to   the  zaindcjo,'.inthi.neg  other   to    the
                                                              si.lver.  The                          cut,  fig.  11,

shows the general arrangement which may be adopted to effect this

object. The current might be continued for half an hour, or more, when

the steel would become magnetized, and thereby give strong indications

of its presence.
No. XIV.]                 APPENDIX.                                          223

IFor my own part,         should use the second plan, or the plan of
magnetizing by induction, to render the needle magnetic. For this

I Ipurpose, have employed a temporary electro-magnet, which magnetized

by the voltaic battery; and you will find that, by keeping the part
affected as close as possible to the instrument, for about half an hour,
you will sufficiently obtain the desired object.
The electro-magnet might be made of the horse-shoe form, if we
knew the direction of the object ; but, in that case, we should not require
Iits use at all, as the proof of the existence of the needle is our only aim.
   have used the horse-shoe magnet, but should prefer in most cases an
electro-magnet like this (fig. 12), made for me by Messrs. Home, of
Newgate Street, which is made of a simple straight bar of soft iron,
wound round with wire. You will perceive by the diagram that the iron
has a plate of brass (B) fixed on both ends
to retain the wire (w) in situ; and you
may also perceive that the two ends of

the wire are attached to binding screws (s).
Tour chemical lecturer has, doubtlessly,

made you aware that the magnetic effect,

cceteris paribus, is proportionate to the

power of the battery ; accordingly, you           FlG - 12- Electro-Magnet,

must select a voltaic combination suitable

for the desired object. You might use a Cruikshanks' battery, made
of alternate pieces of wire and copper soldered together. You might

use one of the old Woollaston batteries, made of a plate of copper,
surrounding a plate of zinc. You might employ one or more Daniell's

batteries, which consist of an outer copper cylinder with a solution of

sulphate of copper, and an inner porous vessel containing zinc and dilute

acid. You might employ the battery invented by Mr. Grove : he uses
for his negative platinum, and in the inner porous cell he puts strong
nitric acid, and in the outer vessel with the zinc dilute sulphuric or muriatic
Iacid. It really is of no consequence whether you select the one or the
other battery for this particular purpose.        believe, however, that mine

is far more commonly used for the ordinary purposes of life. Of my

batteries you may use the triple or pot battery, which consists of a piece
of platinized silver, in the top of which is fixed a piece of wood to

prevent contact between the silver and the zinc. To the silver a binding
screw is fixed to connect it with any desired object; a strip of zinc is

placed on each side of the wood, and both are held in their place by a
binding screw, sufficiently wide to embrace the wires and wood. You
may use the odds-and-ends form, which consists of a plate of platinized

silver for the negative pole, suspended in a vessel of acid, and fragments

of zinc and mercury, placed at the bottom of the vessel for the positive pole.
When you require considerable power, you will find the compound trough

battery very convenient for this purpose, formed of two plates of zinc, one

on each side the silver. The liquid generally adopted to excite the platinized

silver battery is a mixture of one part by measure of sulphuric acid, and
seven of water. The compound battery will magnetize a needle, in con-

junction with the electro-magnet at the distance of an inch, in the space

of two or three minutes.
224  APPENDIX.                           [No. XIV.

     A powerful permanent magnet would answer as well as the temporary

magnet; but permanent magnets are expensive, and not so constantly

at hand. When soft iron is impacted in any part of the body, we do
not require either the electro- or permanent magnet, for on this substance

we are unable to confer magnetic properties.
      We should never think of taking the trouble of magnetizing a part

suspected to contain steel, or iron, unless we could get no indication of

its presence without ; for, perchance, the object might be sufficiently large
to give indication without being magnetized, or it may have been mag-
netized before its introduction.

. Almost all my steel instruments, in common use, are more or less

Imagnetic, from their having been exposed to electricity whilst performing

my electrical experiments ; and, therefore, should have the misfortune
to introduce them into my body, they would be indicated without any

Iprocess to render them further magnetic. Although foreign to a course

of lectures on surgery, may state that, when handling powerful magnets,

you should always put aside your watch, for my own has many a time

played me most troublesome pranks from its springs having become

magnetic.
      To test the existence of a magnet within the body, we may take a

magnetized sewing-needle, and suspend it by a piece of silkworm's silk,
when it will exhibit certain phenomena upon the approach of the suspected

Ipart, provided it contain a piece of magnetized steel. Although this

simple contrivance will amply suffice, myself possess a needle which
was made for me by Messrs. Willats, of Cheapside, and which is well
adapted for the purpose.

     It consists, as you perceive, of a delicate needle, about six inches long,

centred upon a small agate cup, resting upon a steel point, so that the
                                               smallest possible amount of resistance is

     offered to its free play, fig. 13.

           When a part, containing magnetic steel,
     is brought near the needle, it may be either
     attracted or repelled ; it may move upwards
     or downwards ; or it may exhibit disquietude
     according to the position in which the
     new magnet is held. We may detect the
     position of the foreign body, when it is of
     any size, by ascertaining where its north
     and south poles lie; and these are deter-

mined by their repelling and attracting the opposite poles of the magnetic
needle. The disquietude, or motion upwards and downwards, merely
indicates magnetism, but not the direction of the magnet.

    IYou will doubtless be surprised when tell you that, in this manner,
I have detected a piece of needle impacted in the finger of a young woman,
although it weighed but the seventh of a grain. This gave such
Imarked indications, that found out tolerably well the position of its
Inorth and south poles, though could not ascertain the presence of a
Iforeign body in any other way.  tried experiments on smaller pieces, at
Ishort distances, such as half an inch to an inch, and found that a piece
of needle, weighing ^ of a grain, gave decided indications after having
No. XV.A.]  APPENDIX.  225

been magnetized, and, perhaps, even a still smaller amount of steel might
 in some cases be detected.*

       The batteries, electro-magnets, and magnetic needle, you may procure
of Messrs. Home, of Newgate Street ; or of Messrs. Willats, of Cheapside ;

or, by order, of any other instrument- maker : but if you, or any of your

friends, meet with doubtful cases of this character, my own apparatus is

Iat your service, and shall esteem it as a favour if you would allow me to
Ibe present at the examination, in order that may see the varieties which

different cases present.

      A centred magnetic needle should always accompany the ordinary

electro-magnets used for medical purposes ; as the medical practitioner,
having that machine, might, with this addition alone, always determine
the presence of steel particles.

      Of medical electrical machines the primary coil machine may be
employed ; as the bundle of wires, when magnetized, will serve to mag-
netize the needle. The platinum spring machine may be employed
in a similar manner, and the bundle of wires in the rack machine may
also be used to effect the same object. In all these cases you must
be careful to continue the voltaic current in the same direction ; for, if
you reversed the current but one instant, it would tend to undo what has

Ibeen already done.
          have now satisfactorily demonstrated to you, that magnetism may
be used for the detection of steel particles, impacted within the body, with
absolute success ; and, though but a very trifling application of natural

Iphilosophy to the practice of surgery, have no doubt that, had it been
Iadopted before, many joints would have been saved ; and confidently

anticipate that it will be the means, in future, of frequently saving these
parts from destruction.

                                            No. XV.A.

AN ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS BREADS EXHIBITED
     UNDER THE TITLE OF " FAMINE FOOD," AT ME. SMEE'S

      RESIDENCE IN FiNSBURY CIRCUS IN FEBRUARY 1847. Taken from
      sundry newspapers.

THE ' Morning Herald ' states : " A very interesting collection of bread

in fourteen varieties was exhibited under the title of ' Famine Food.'
The rye, barley, and Indian corn breads require no comment, from their
want of novelty. The root breads were respectively made of half of the
root previously boiled and reduced, to a fine pulp, with half its weight of
wheaten flour. The yam bread was good, and much resembled potato

       * These weights are the nearest fractions, but we ascertained the exact weight
of these fragments by the standard balance belonging to the Bank of England :

these two portions amounted respectively to the ^^ and the ^^ of a grain ;

the exact weight of the portion alluded to in the former part of the paper was
tiie of a rain -
226                  APPENDIX.                                                  [No. XV.A.

bread. It is a mere scientific curiosity in this country, thotigh we are

informed that it is employed in the "West Indies. The turnip bread had a
very agreeable flavour, but the loaf was very small. The relative price

was not stated, but we should think it would not be an economic food. It

might, perhaps, be used as a luxury. Bread made with the sugar-beet was

good and palatable, so was also that made with mangold- wurzel. There
was a good sample manufactured from the red beet by Mr. Fames, which

had the colour removed by repeated boilings. Parsnip bread was one of
the best breads shown, and was moreover a large loaf. Bread made with
the white carrot in the same manner had no peculiar flavour, which of
course is a great advantage for food which is to be used constantly. Arti-

choke bread has the flavour of that root ; it makes a good bread. Perhaps

the root breads can hardly be called famine food, because the materials of

which they are formed are articles of food under any circumstances, and
they will be just as available for human food when cooked in the usual

manner as when made into bread. There were, however, two decided
novelties exhibited, namely Iceland moss bread and hay bread, which will
strictly bear the name of famine bread. Half Iceland moss and half

wheaten flour make a dark-coloured bread of great weight and probably
highly nutritious. It, however, possesses a peculiar bitter flavour, agreeable

to those who like bitters, and disagreeable to those who dislike that taste.
The hay food attracted great attention ; it was shown in two forms as
hay bread and hay biscuits. The colour was very dark and repulsive,

but the odour was agreeable. In taste it was sweet and high-flavoured,

somewhat resembling that of strong and high-flavoured tea. The greater

part of the company agreed as to its palatable character ; some even

thought it delicious, though others thought it disagreeable. To prepare it

the hay was ground into an impalpable powder and mixed with half flour,
to hold the particles together. The hay food is probably highly nutritious,

and might form a valuable famine food ; but, being quite a novelty,

experience   Sius nw'anstteadtesuptohnatth"ethseubhjaeyct.b" read  was  a  sweet-smelling  and not
      The '

unpalatable food. The Iceland moss bread alone was nauseous: all the

other varieties were well tasted, and presented the appearance of an
ordinary loaf, and indicating by the smell the vegetable from which it was

prepared."           Post ' states : " The most                    interesting  objects,   and those
      The ' Morning

which excited the greatest attention, were specimens of famine food.
About a dozen different kinds were submitted for examination, consisting

of rye, barley, Indian meal, parsnip, yam, beet-root, artichoke, carrot, Ice-
land moss, and hay. With the exception of the two last, these breads seem

to be well adapted for use, not only in times of scarcity, but also when

no such dire exigency exists. The Iceland moss and hay breads are
black, and fit only to be used as human food when terrors similar to
those described by Josephus of the last siege of Jerusalem shall fall

upon us."
      The ' Morning Advertiser ' observes that " foremost among the series

of illustrations exhibited'we have to notice those which are immediately con-

nected with the progress of the potato disease, and with the inventions to
which that great calamity has given birth, in the formation of substitutes
both for the potato and for bread, from the most available natural pro-
No. XV.B.]  APPENDIX.  227

ducts. In the former part of this subject Mr. Smee, -who has given it great

attention, has procured specimens of diseased bulbs in almost every stage
of the blight : from these he has obtained sections passing through the
seat or origin of the disease, and, by a proper arrangement of the sections,
he has succeeded in exhibiting its progress at one comprehensive glance.
He has also obtained several specimens of the Aphis vastator, or destruc-
tive insect, to the agency of which the ruin of the potato, and indeed of
other plants, has been attributed. Mr. Smee placed them under the
lenses of powerful microscopes, twelve of which were adjusted at one table.
Amongst the specimens of potatoes sent up were some from the estate of
the Right Hon. the Speaker of the House of Commons, in Hampshire.
They were also accompanied by some large plants, and by leaves of the
mangold- wurzel destroyed by the Aphis vastator, which in some instances
was found upon the plant itself. Other diseased specimens of the forth-
coming crop have been received by Mr. Smee from various other parts of
the country. Amongst the substitution for potatoes and bread Mr. Smee
exhibited fourteen loaves made from as many different materials. Amongst
them might be mentioned those of hay, sweet beet-root, turnips, carrots,

parsnips, mangold-wurzel, Iceland moss, and hay biscuits. Many of these
are unquestionably very palatable and nutritious, as, for instance, the

bread from turnips, carrots, and beet-root. The hay biscuits and bread

are most singular compounds. They are of a deep brown colour approach-
ing almost to black, possess all the fragrance of hay, and are nutritious in
a high degree. Of their nutritious powers, indeed, there seems to be no
question; the grand point to be ascertained is their susceptibility of
yielding to the action of the digestive organs. Most of the other breads

mentioned above are of the same colours as wheaten and maize."

                                            No. XY.B.
                  ON THE POTATO DISEASE, 1845-46-47.

                                 By ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S.

                    THE APHIDES AND THE APHIS VASTATOR.
 As reported by ED. LATHAM, Royal General Dispensary, Aldersgate Street.
ON Wednesday evening, March 10th, 1847, A. Smee, Esq., F.R.S., Surgeon
to the Bank of England, &c., delivered at the London Institution a
lecture on aphides and on the Aphis vastator as being the cause of the
potato disease, &c. The following is the substance of Mr. Smee's

Ilecture :

         feel deep responsibility in coming before the public to consider the
subject of the present scarcity of food. My observation has proved to me
that the cause of this scarcity is a plague of insects, resulting from a pre-
ternatural abundance of those insects, and their settling, feeding on, and
destroying various kinds of plants. History records numerous devas-
tating plagues of insects analogous to the present ; immense and almost
incredible swarms of locusts, which destroyed every green thing, are

                                                                                                 Q2
228          APPENDIX.  [No. XV.B.

spoken of by Orosius, St. Augustine, Barrow, and others; but the first
account of such plagues is handed down to us in the 8th and 10th chapters

of Exodus. Another example is furnished by the cockchafer of this

country, which increased so excessively some years ago as to destroy every

Iplant and blade of grass existing in various districts. Other insects have

also at various times been most destructive ; but may refer you to the
delightful work of Kirby and Spence on Entomology for most interesting

information on these subjects. My observations and researches touching

last year's scarcity have proved to me that its cause was attributable to a
preternatural increase of an insect of the family of the aphides, a tribe so
small that they may be passed unseen and unnoticed, though assembled in

vast nations on the plants around, subsisting on and destroying an
important item of the food of man. This insect, so insignificant in

appearance, has thus given rise to considerations of high importance : it

has produced famine in Ireland and Scotland, scarcity of the means of
subsistence in England, and the effects of its ravages have disturbed the
political relations of the whole habitable globe. My previous observations
Iand the facts had collected on this subject are before the public, which
Iamount to testimony the accuracy of which cannot be disputed.  am not

here to-night to enunciate any new thing, but simply to draw your careful
attention to such facts as the present season affords, in order that you

Imay consider what may be the best means of averting future ravages, with

their consequent scarcity and distress. Aphides, as have stated, are very

small creatures, but frightfully prolific. On a moderate calculation, one

aphis may be the progenitor of ten, and each future one of ten more ; so
that, increasing in geometrical ratio, the first aphis may become the

ancestor of a quintillion at the end of the season ; arriving at an amount

so vast that it almost overcomes the understanding. Ten generations of
aphides increasing in this ratio, each one producing ten, if placed the

head of each at the tail of another, would form a circle extending round
our globe : indeed, their fecundity is most enormous. Aphides will exist
in all parts and through all seasons. They are very tenacious of life, and
are connected with all scarcities, not only the present, but no doubt with

many that are past.

     In investigating the nature and character of these insects, it be-

comes necessary to ascertain the quality of their food, which must consist

of organic matter, animal or vegetable, and also must be either dead
or living animal or vegetable matter. As an illustration of such inquiry,

the leaves of the strawberry-plant before me were found covered with

Iblack spots similar to those observed on the leaves of the diseased
potato, &c.  had this strawberry-plant placed in a pinery where no
aphides existed, but in due time these black spots on its leaves were
further developed, and became insects, each of which passed through the
various stages of its insect life, from the larva to the pupa, and from the
pupa became the imago or perfect winged aphis. In these conditions
it was found living and feeding on the leaves of the plant; therefore
its proper food is demonstrated to be vegetable, and living vegetable,

matter.
      The next inquiry, and one which has been controverted, is whether the

vegetable matter on which the aphis subsists be healthy or diseased. This
strawberry -plant, when first placed in the pinery, was healthy-looking and
No. XV.B.]  APPENDIX.                                                                                   229

flourishing, but so soon as the insects were developed, and preyed upon

Iits juices, it became deteriorated, and manifested unequivocal symptoms

of disease. To-day placed some living aphides upon the leaves of the

healthy potato-plant on the table, upon which they are actively feeding,

and, if means are not adopted to stop their ravages on this plant, it will
become diseased and die in consequence. Then from these examples we
may infer that aphides appear first on healthy plants, and, therefore, live

on healthy vegetable matter.

     In the next place, in order to understand the process of this disease,
we should know the part of the plant that aphides exist on, and which

must be either solid or fluid. To determine this point an examination
of their apparatus for feeding becomes necessary. This is extremely
delicate. Situated on the under-side of the head is the rostrum, which

is about one-fourth as long as the whole body, and contains a fine

instrument for piercing the leaf and the walls of its Cecils : this is found
to consist of three fine setse or delicate piercers, one of which answers

to the tongue and the others to the jaws of the insect. These are

very beautiful objects for examination with the microscope. If an aphis
be examined by means of a magnifying-glass, whilst attached, it will be
seen to have a sort of proboscis applied to the leaf, and if touched it will
be found to adhere pretty firmly by this, which constitutes its suctorial
apparatus, and it requires some seconds to disengage itself from its posi-
tion. This apparatus, by which it is so closely attached, is that by which
it is enabled to pierce the leaf, break up its cells, and suck the vital fluid
as it passes through the leaf to be rendered fit for the nourishment of

the plant.

From these facts, then, we deduce that aphides suck the juices of

plants, which is analogous to the blood of animals, and, therefore, the sap
is impaired in its qualities in that vital organ the leaf, whence its power

of fulfilling its various functions is either weakened or destroyed. If the

sap is taken away, its functions cannot be performed ; and if its nutritive
properties are weakened, it cannot properly nourish the plant, which in

Iconsequence becomes debilitated, and an imperfect vegetable tissue is

formed, that is in itself very prone to die, of which have had numerous
examples in large tulips, crocuses, mangold- wurzel, potatoes, &c. Death of

a plant may be either local, i.e. confined to the spot where the aphis

penetrates the leaf or leaflet, as is shown by the spots seen on the various

kinds of leaf upon the table, as of the turnip, potato, horse-radish, &c. ;

or one single leaf, or a certain number of leaves or leaflets, may die with-

out the disease passing further into the plant. One portion of the stem

may perish and cut off the supply of nutriment from other leaflets, which
will die from this secondary cause, or the whole of the stem may be cut

down, and thus the due supply of properly elaborated sap being prevented,

the plant must perish. The plant may also begin to perish at the extreme

ends of the rootlets, the ascent of crude sap for elaboration being rendered

impossible. Any portion of the stem may also first manifest the disease ;
                                                                                                         which is
bteucthnmicoastllyfraenqduevnutlglyarltyhecamlleadlad"ythfeirsctolslahrow" sofittsheelf    at the part  the inter-
                                                                                         plant (being
mediate part between the ascending and descending axes). This is very
frequent, especially in the potato and turnip. Then we find that partial

death following the attacks of aphides may be only local at the part where
230                           APPENDIX.  [No. XV.B.

the insect makes its puncture, and breaks up the cellular tissue, or the
death may be remote from the part first attacked ; and remote death
resulting from the attacks of the aphides invariably kills the plant,
because the supply of nourishment becomes cut off from its upper part.
Death produced in this remote way often causes the potato-plants which
appear in a green, succulent condition to wither up in a few hours, the
communication between the stem and root being cut off by the action of
disease ; so that the total death of the plant may arise from the death of a
                               Plants  resist the attacks of aphides better
part necessary to the whole.  others.
under some conditions than             All wild plants resist better than
cultivated ones. A wild turnip in a field will flourish amid the ravages of
aphides when all the cultivated ones are destroyed ; and the same is true in
reference to the wild potato, and indeed all wild plants. The potato-plant,
as we cultivate it, is in an unnatural condition, differing from the wild or
natural plant in having great excess of tuber (an excess of cellular tissue
over fibre) and great deficiency of leaves. Wild plants, or plants in a con-
dition well calculated to develop fibre, well resist the attacks of aphides,
when highly-cultivated plants, or plants not under circumstances favour-
able to the formation of fibre, resist them badly. There is a particular
period in the growth of the potato-plant (as well as others) when the solid

material formed or elaborated in the leaf is most wanted. At that period
the plant becomes most liable to die from any injurious causes. In the
potato, the most critical time in its growth is when the supply of nourish-
ment contained or stored up in the old potato, or set, at its base is con-

sumed ; then, if the organization of the leaf has been injured, its functions
are impaired, and when called on for that purpose it cannot give the

necessary healthy vital fluid for the nutiiment of the plant and the deposit

of solid fibre, and it dies in consequence; or it exists in a debilitated
condition, forming imperfect tissue; therefore it may be stated that

plants are most injured by aphides at that period of their growth when
they are required to deposit most fibre. When from such causes the

tissue of the plant has once been rendered imperfect or diseased, all future

growths have a tendency to continue the diseased action and to form
unsound tissue. You all know familiarly the hereditary tendency to

disease that exists in families, which may pass from generation to genera-
tion, and thus the faults and imperfections of one are transmitted down-

ward to another. Apple-trees, rose-trees, &c., when once debilitated, have

been noticed to exhibit a return of such condition in all future growths
emanating from them, and it is so in the potato, &c. This, then, leads us

to deduce a law, that plants having their tissue damaged from aphides

propagate diseased tissue in all their future growths. Generally, if a
plant begins to perish it is soon cut down, indeed in a very few days, and
the influence of the hot sun often causes it to perish very greatly in a

single day.

      The death of the plant exercises also an important influence on the
aphis. When its supply of subsistence becomes diminished, it does not

remain to perish amid the famine itself has made, but the pupa of the
aphis casts its coat, and becomes the winged insect, prepared to fly away
and commit similar ravages elsewhere. Vast clouds of them rise together

Ifrom fields that have perished, often forming quite a mist in the atmo-
sphere.      have accounts of these vast clouds of insects being seen in
No. XV.B.]       APPENDIX.                         231

nearly all parts of England. After migrating to a new locality, they will
Isettle down perpendicularly in a mass upon the fields to recommence their

work of destruction. Last summer was informed that travellers in the

neighbourhood of Norwich were very much inconvenienced by the clouds

of aphides flying about and almost blinding them. From these manifes-
tations of the insect, then, we find that the injury to plants hastens the
transformation of the aphides. After the attacks of aphides and damage
to the tissue of the plant, we find upon examining the decaying tubers,

&c., that they become covered with parasitic fungi, of which there are
thirty or forty varieties. These grow and flourish in the decaying vege-

table matter, and are, in fact, the scavengers provided by nature to remove

the decomposing substance and to prevent contamination of the atmo-
sphere by putrid and poisonous exhalations. These fungi are in most cases
observed on the diseased potato. As they grow they eat up, as it were,

the soft and decaying parts as fast as they rot ; and thus is inorganic

matter converted into organic thus is death converted into life. These

fungi have been considered to be the source and cause of the disease ; and

Martius, who was the first investigator of this subject, traces many fungi,
and attributes the disease to them; but, in fact, they never make their
Iappearance until the potato-plant has been previously damaged, and until
some portion of it is already dead.  have tried many experiments to

Iproduce the disease by inoculating sound potatoes, but the result has
been a failure.  conclude, then, that it is a necessary law that the

attacks of aphides are almost invariably followed by the growth of

fungi.

We have now spoken of the effects of the attacks of aphides on plants,
and the conditions or laws of those effects. We have also noticed the
excessive numbers that can be produced from a single aphis ; and that,

assembled in vast swarms, they cause immense and serious mischief.
Aphides, which we have shown to be so destructive by their excessive

numbers, are themselves the natural prey of numerous creatures ; and
their increase, therefore, may lead us to believe that the natural balance of

creation has been disturbed, and that their natural destroyers have been

diminished. Ladybirds ai-e enemies to and destroyers of aphides, and
being more conspicuous often lead us to the discovery of the latter. Last

year it is believed that ladybirds were scarce, though in many seasons,
particularly that of 1805, these creatures have been noticed in great abun-
dance on the cliffs at Dover, and other places on the coast. The hop aphis
often produces great havoc in the crop, and ladybirds are always much
welcomed in the hop-grounds. The gauzewing, too, feeds on aphides with
equal voracity, as also do various dypterous insects of the genus sylphidse.

It would be well if we could breed these creatures by millions. Various
hymenopterous insects are great destroyers of aphides, one genus of which,
called ichneumons, deposit their egg in the body of the aphis : the egg
becomes a maggot that feeds upon the aphis, which swells, assumes a
globular form, and at length dies, remaining adherent to the leaf. After
Ithe death of the aphis the enclosed creature eats a hole through the case
which contains it, and comes out a winged insect.  have watched this

process, and seen the ichneumon escape from aphides in my own posses-
sion. Nature, amid all her wonders, goes a step further than this, for
another genus of hymenoptera, the chalcididse, deposit their egg within the
232  APPENDIX.  [No. XV.B.

maggot of the already punctured aphis ; and thus we have an aphis with a
maggot within its body, eating it up, and lastly a maggot within this
maggot devouring that also ; in part verification of the lines :

           " Great fleas and little fleas have smaller fleas to bite 'em,
             The smaller fleas have lesser fleas, so on ad infinitum."

     Aphides live on all plants ; and therefore, if not kept in check, are

competent to destroy all human food. They are materially checked by a
variety of birds as well as the different insects, such as the swallow, the
robin, &c., and also ducks : these destroy them in great numbers ; and

Iconsider how many aphides it must take to make a meal for a single bird.

When a schoolboy formed the idea of examining the crops of birds, and
have found them to contain innumerable insects, and, no doubt, aphides.

It must be recommended, then, to protect such birds during the inclemency

of winter, and they will amply repay the trouble in summer. Almost every
plant has one particular aphis belonging to it, which it has been usual to
name according to the plant it infested ; but the aphis which comes more
especially under our consideration as being the cause of the potato disease
feeds also on a great variety of other plants, both wild and cultivated,
many of which are necessary to man for food or medicine, as the wheat,
Indian corn, artichoke, turnip, parsnip, shepherd's-purse, mustard, spinach,

Inightshade, henbane, stramonium, carrot, pasture-grass, couch-grass,

spurge, groundsel, celery, &c. &c. ; and every day am adding to a much

longer list fresh specimens attacked by this particular aphis. A dis-

Itinguished naturalist asked me the other day how managed to breed
Iaphides. My answer was that could not help breeding them, for where
I do not want them the creatures get upon my sound plants, which they

would destroy if not removed.
      The potato disease and failure in crop is no novelty. "We can

trace the same disease through a series of years, sometimes occurring
here, sometimes there; and the only difference between these visita-
tions and the present one is, that this is more general, affecting all
localities. Hollins describes a similar disease as occurring about the
beginning of the eighteenth century, and states that the Society of Arts
awarded a premium for the best remedy. When Martius wrote in the
year 1830, the same disease existed and spread rapidly in Germany. This
disease is in the potato itself without any difference of opinion; and it
is essentially gangrene or death, gangrene of the leaf, of the stem, or
different parts of the stem, the underground stem, tuber-bearing stems,
 and of the different tubers. There are two forms of mortification or

gangrene, and they present themselves as the gangrene humide or moist

gangrene, and the gangrene sicca or dry gangrene. In the moist gangrene

the potato-tuber, &c., becomes disorganized by rotting, and is wet and

offensive. In the dry gangrene the tuber shrinks up and becomes quite
hard and desiccated ; and in certain cases it becomes as hard and dry as a
bit of wood, and will even bear a polish. Both kinds of gangrene are

 accompanied by fungi, but especially the moist ; and all gangrenous tissue
 is deficient in starch, as may be seen in my preparations under the micro-
 scope; and examples of the empty condition of the starch cells were
 figured by Martins when he wrote. Chemical analysis also proves that the
No. XV.B.]         APPENDIX.                  233

diseased tubers are deficient in starch, and starch-makers cannot obtain

from them more than half the usual quantity.

Examining this question physiologically, then, we find on the plant a
certain insect, and that on a part of the plant, viz. the leaf, which is

destined to elaborate solid matter for the growth of the whole. Anatomy
and physiology also show that the insect, by its conformation, is calculated

to take away and feed upon the sap or vital fluid of the plant, which was
destined to form solid and healthy vegetable matter. The microscope
demonstrates that a due and healthy proportion of solid material does not

exist in the diseased tissue ; and chemical analysis also fully confirms the

fact. So that the cause, the progress, and the ultimate effects of this

vegetable malady are clearly and satisfactorily explained by the conjoint
evidence of observation, physiology, anatomy, and chemistry. This aphis

Iproduces the same results in all plants, its operations on which have
Iwatched one after the other, and am now watching others go through

the same progress. Some strong plants are not easily affected by the
attacks of the aphis ; for example, a large beet-root vigorously resists the
ravages of these creatures, and requires, at least, ten thousand of them
to destroy it. As there have been many different plants attacked and

destroyed by aphides, these creatures have accordingly received different

Inames, usually with reference to the plant on which they subsist ; and

am told there is a book in the British Museum in which all these are

recapitulated. It appeared to me, however, that the aphis giving rise to

the potato disease also commits great or equal ravages on many other plants
Igood for the food of man, or otherwise useful to him ; but, not being able

to find that any characteristic name was applied to it, carefully consulted
with Mr. Thompson, the intelligent librarian of this institution, and, after

unsuccessfully ransacking the library for some applicable cognomen to
give this individual, we agreed to give it a name characteristic of its
depredations, and called it the vastator, or destroyer.

When a scarcity of food exists, or future plenty is doubtful ; or when

famine seems impending ; and when, at the same time, we have authentic

accounts of numbers of our destitute fellow-creatures starving through lack

of food, it becomes an imperative duty to exercise our utmost ingenuity to

adopt any substitutes for the natural food of man that can be proved avail-

able, and several such have been suggested. Mr. Hamp, an intelligent

gardener, has proposed a root, called the Apios tuberosa, to be used as a
Isubstitute for potatoes, and have no doubt it would answer the intention
Iremarkably well.  have tried experiments in the manufacture of various

kinds of bread, such as carrot bread, turnip, mangold-wurzel, rice, and

parsnip bread, &c. The vegetable is boiled up with an equal quantity of
flour, and is afterwards baked in the usual way. Some of these kinds of
bread are most delicious, several of which are on the table before me. But

by using such articles we secured no gain to the available stock of human

food, and I, therefore, tried what hay would do if manufactured into

Ibread. You all know its nutritive properties to various animals, and

have no doubt that, both from the result and from analogy, it contains

much nutritive matter that would be serviceable and acceptable to man in

a time of famine. Hay made into biscuits is preferable to hay bread. The

hay is ground into an impalpable powder, and, when mixed with an equal
quantity of flour, is to be made up and baked in the usual way. Iceland
234  APPENDIX.  [No. XV.B.

Imoss, too, is considered to be very nutritive, as given to consumptive and

debilitated persons ; therefore had some bread made from Iceland moss,

but it turns out to be a complete failure, for it is so intensely bitter that it
cannot be eaten ; indeed, it is quite as bitter as either quinine or Peruvian
bark. These investigations in reference to the scarcity of food have

occupied much time when my other engagements have been numerous and

Ipressing, and several other subjects have had their consideration neces-

sarily postponed by them, but have always received the utmost kindness
from all quarters in carrying out my inquiries.

     At this moment the room was darkened, when Mr. Smee gave an
interesting description of numerous preparations of aphides in their

different stages of existence, of the various insects which prey upon them,
and of a number of specimens of diseased potatoes, and other plants, with
various fungi, and also of living aphides, &c. &c., all of which were
exhibited by means of a powerful oxyhydrogen microscope, manufactured
by Messrs. Home and Thornthwaite, of Newgate Street. This part

was most highly applauded, and the whole produced considerable sen-

sation.

                               Objects shown under the microscope :

      Eggs of aphides ; larva ; pupa ; and perfect Aphis vastator.
      Aphis lanigera, which infests apple-trees. Sir Joseph Banks has
given a description of this, and states that it has damaged one orchard to
the amount of 50 per year.

       Couch-grass aphis, fox-tailed.
      Aphis, called the black collier, taken from the beet-root.

      An ordinary green-fly, having long legs, &c., and being very different
from the vastator.

       Rose aphis.
      Pea aphis is very destructive to peas, which were destroyed partly by
this insect, and partly by the dry summer, last year.
       Barley aphis, with its wings in repose.
       Grass aphis, by which whole tracts of grass were destroyed last

year.

      Willow aphis, which is one of the largest of the family.
       Wheat aphis is two or three times as big as the vastator, which, how-

ever, also lives on the wheat.
       The nut-bush aphis is very small.
       (?) Hycemal aphis ; the large black spots which are a fungus on the

leaf probably follow this aphis.
       Cabbage aphis ; the cabbages brought to market last year were covered

by this white downy aphis.
       Many aphides secrete sugar, and in honeydews this is very obvious.
       Ichneumons, or hymenopterous insects, from the swollen aphis.
       Another ichneumon with a round body.
       Various others found about potato-fields.
       Bed acarus, about the size of a large spider, and which eats aphides

very voraciously.
       Minute acarus.
No. XV.B.]               APPENDIX.                                 235

      Lancets of the gad-fly, showing the difference between them and the
delicate piercers of the aphis.

      Lancets of the tohanis, which are large and coarse.

      Lancets of the blow-fly.                                 in balsam,
      Leaf of the potato, with numei'ous aphides incarcerated
whilst in the act of feeding.

Leaf of diseased potato.
Section of a healthy potato-tube with its minute cells filled with

starch.

     Section of a diseased tuber, with marks of the injury of the dis-

ease, &c.

      Another piece of diseased potato with brown and black spots.
      Little quantities of starch after all other parts have been eaten

up.                                                                seen
      Section of a stem of wild potato with granules of starch

in it.

     A stem of potato with a beautiful specimen of a black fungi.

      Blood-red fungus.

Another fungus with round heads like peas, which are covered by

sporules.

Celery-leaf with fungi.

Couch-grass with aphis and eggs.
Horseradish-leaf.

      Acarus farnce, whioh run about putrefying potatoes, destroying

oft'ensive matter. One may compare this creature to a rhinoceros trotting
about in the jungles.

      Living aphides in a very active state.

   IAs yet the future prospects of the disease are doubtful, and have

shown the destructive appetency of aphides. It is evident that the ba-

lance of nature is disturbed, and that these insects are preternaturally and
immensely in excess. The human species has frequently been threatened

with total destruction by these plagues ; but, though ten thousands of
mankind may have perished, we find by experience that the insects have
ceased and men lived. No doubt this calamity will eventually pass away,

though, indeed, it may not yet have reached its maximum. Up to the
present time we have only known the disease as increasing. It has been
worse last year than it was the year before ; but the ensuing season, we
may hope, will be healthy. No doubt many growers of potatoes will be

Ideterred from planting; but should say, do not give up cultivating,
Ibut cultivate in all cases, under the most favourable circumstances.

believe few have yet been planted this year ; therefore, at all events, the
crop will be scarce. Yet it is not too late to plant, though those potatoes
which are placed earliest in the ground will have the best chance of suc-

ceeding, because they have an opportunity to deposit more fibre before the
time that the aphides appear to commence their attacks. The cost of potato
 sets per acre last year, from the scarcity of good ones, is reported to have
 been about eighteen or twenty pounds, which becomes a serious outlay to

Ismall farmers, and will, therefore, greatly hinder their plans. If the insects

 do appear this season, from experiments that have tried in my own house,
236 APPENDIX.

Iand which appear to succeed, have no doubt means may be applied to
I Icut them down at once ; and the first opportunity have shall tiy my
I Iexperiments on a larger scale, when think may be able immediately
to put a stop to the disease. The balance of nature must be restored ; and

this year we may not see the disease. Scienc e and history show that the
                                and, further, we         a higher promise, for it
Icalamitywill be  transitory ;    destroyer for    have  sake, and he shall not
         " will     rebuke the                    your
is said,

destroy the fruits of your ground."

MONTHLY REPORTS AND CORRESPONDENCE IN VARIOUS NEWSPAPERS
                                ON APHIDES. BY ALFRED SMEE.

              MONTHLY REPORT OP APHIDES FOE JANUARY 1847.

      Aphides having appeared to such excess that vegetation has been
damaged and famine produced, it requires that continual observations
should be made to ascertain the exact position and numerical strength of
this vast army of insects, that we may be better enabled, when spring

advances, to fight with success the formidable battle. It is now a question
whether men or aphides are to live ; for, if aphides continue in the same

ratio to increase for the next two or three years, millions of human beings

must inevitably perish; but, if we can but extirpate this overwhelming
troop, food will again abound and famine will cease.

      The vastator is our great enemy, and from the number and importance

Iof the plants which it kills, it deserves our fullest attention. As this is

my first monthly report, shall commence by recapitulating those plants
the death of which 1 have actually myself traced to the action of the
vastator.

           PLANTS TOTALLY DESTROYED BY THE VASTATOR.

           Wild Plants.                Beet       Cultivated Plants.

Shepherd's-purse . over large tracts.  ....Spinach       rarely.
                                       ....Turnip        whole crops.
Groundsel . . . abundantly.            ....Carrot
                                       ....Parsnip       abundantly.
Wild turnip . . numerous.                                plenty.
                                                         more rare.
mustard . . ditto.
....Violet
Solanum nigrurn . plenty.
....Clover
         dulcamara more scarce.

....Nettle        plenty.

....Spurge        ditto.

Pasture grass . . ditto.

                  occasionally.

                  abundantly.

Geranium molle . rarely.

    IThere are, however, many plants which have not yet noticed to be

utterly destroyed by its ravages, but are only partially or locally affected ;
and all plants which are sometimes killed, are at other times but partially
or locally damaged.
No. XV.B.]                 APPENDIX.                     237

            PLANTS PARTIALLY DESTROYED BY THE VASTATOR.

           Wild Plants.           Cultivated Plants.
Plants before enumerated.  Plants before enumerated.
Belladonna.                Potato.*
Stramonium.
                           Tomato.
Hyoscyamus.
Plantain.                  Sweet potato.
                           Jerusalem artichoke.
Heartsease.
Mallow.                    Garden artichoke (?).
                           Wheat.
Chickweed.                 Indian corn.
Thistles.
                           Cabbages, swedes.
Docks.                     Horse-radish.
Elder.
                           Celery.
                           Parsley.
                           Strawberry (Walker).
                           Major convolvulus.
                           Marigolds.
                           Balsams.

                           Tulips.
                            Crocuses.
                           Cinerarias.

                           Verbenas.

                           Many Solani.
                           Peach and nectarine.
                           Numerous other greenhouse plants.

This list of itself is sufficiently formidable, but we must also fear the

aphis of the hop, the cabbage, the pea, the bean, the corn aphis, the grass

aphides, the black collier, and the aphis of the apple-trees. It is upon the
recurrence of aphides, especially of the vastator, upon which future food
or famine depends. We only know that aphides are continually increasing,

and, if we do not destroy them, they will infallibly destroy us. All aphides
are alike in sucking the juices of the plant and causing it to die locally
at the puncture, or generally throughout the system. All live upon the

vital fluid, and all induce the fatal gangrene, which the potato has

abundantly shown.

The past month has been unfavourable' to animated beings. Alternate

freezings and thawings have been sufficient to destroy almost everything
which has life, and even the deaths amongst men have been much above

the average. Notwithstanding this inclemency, there are plenty of the
Ivastators alive upon the plants out of doors.  found it upon the turnip,
Ishepherd's-purse, docks, and mallows, and have no doubt, had not
Ibusiness and the bad weather prevented me, should have found it in
Iabundance upon many plants. It is not yet living upon the wheat, nor

can find any other species upon this plant. In greenhouses it exists
in profusion on young potato plants, cinerarias, verbenas, crocuses, and

       * The potato plant is very rarely utterly destroyed. Generally speaking,
there is some portion of a whole plant, some round eye, remaining amongst all
the tubers, to continue the growth of the plant.
238  APPENDIX.                                       [No. XV.B.

tulips, in some cases even so as to render them loathsome to the eye rather

Ithan an ornament.
         have just received from Mr. "Walker, the distinguished entomologist,
who is writing a work upon Aphides, a note, wherein he states that the

eggs of the vastator, together with the larvae, are abundant in his garden
under the strawberry leaves, and he has kindly furnished me with samples.

This demonstrates that, even if every vastator were killed, the species

Iwould be amply maintained.                          am certain that there is
      Confining ourselves to the facts of the case,
abundance to furnish a stock to destroy our crops next year. According

to Professor Owen, one single aphis may give rise to a quintillion during
one year, a number which we may write, spell, or pronounce, but which we

Icannot comprehend. Perhaps we may form a faint notion of a quintillion

of aphides when state that they would form an army which would extend
round the globe, and be thirty millions of miles in breadth. This is

perhaps an exaggerated account of the rate of increase, yet, under a greatly
diminished estimate, it will show that there is plenty left for the next

year's brood.

      By the very lowest increase the quantity which might be produced by
one aphis is ten billions, and that is certainly much too low, as this

Inumber is formed upon the supposition that each aphis only brings forth

one litter in ten, whereas believe that they bring forth many litters.

Upon this calculation one aphis now living might give rise to a progeny

which would form an army, if there were nothing to destroy them, which

would extend completely round the globe, and be a furlong in breadth.

      In. greenhouses the green-fly, the Aphis roses, the aphis of cinerarias,

Iand some other species, are to be found ; but out of doors have not met
with other species this January.

      During the last month the effects of the vastator of last year have
more fully manifested themselves by the rottings of the bulbs of infected

turnips, and the extensive rotting of carrots down their central portions.

    IWith respect to the operations for February, must refer to my letter
Iof January the first, and to the farmer would say Remember that a
potato plant, once diseased, is like human beings in its tendency to

propagate disease, without the further action of external causes. A tuber

from a former diseased plant, though apparently sound, may show the
malady without a new attack of the vastator.

      Sets from plants which have never been diseased, and absence of the
vastator, will secure to the husbandman abundant crop for the future ; but,
above all things, let everybody who requires food to eat, be taught the
necessity of destroying the vastator.

               PROBABLE FAILURE OF THE STRAWBERRY CROP.

    IIn my report for January, stated, upon the authority of Mr. "Walker,

that the eggs of the vastator were upon the strawberry leaves. Since that

Ireport was written, find that the leaves of that plant have great abundance
Iof eggs everywhere; and learn, upon inquiry, that the strawberry plants

were affected like the potato last autumn.
No. XV.B.]  APPENDIX.  239

       Upon examining the plants in hothouses, live aphides in the larva

Istate are now feeding ; but, after a minute microscopical view, have

noticed some anatomical differences which lead me to infer that this aphis
is possibly not the vastator, although a species very nearly allied to it.

IUnder these circumstances, must defer passing a decided opinion until
I have observed it in the final or winged state.

     It is really of but little consequence to the husbandman to know the

particular aphis which causes injury to any particular plant, for every
aphis is equally destructive, and wherever there are abundance of aphides,

Ithere does the death of the plant occur. From this view of the question,
  now caution gardeners to watch the aphides which attack the strawberry
plants, and destroy them, together with their eggs, as far as possible,
otherwise they must not be surprised to find their strawberry plants
destroyed, or rendered unfruitful through their agency.

      Let every farmer, gardener, and naturalist now record their observa-
tions upon aphides, that the talent of the country may be concentrated
upon their eradication.

             1847.

                      REPORT OF APHIDES FOR FEBRUARY 1847.

      During the past month we have had both cold and warm weather, for
the season of the year. At the commencement, the temperature was as
low as ever observed in this country, and subsequently the weather has
been so mild that a great stimulus has been given to vegetation, and
the buds have put forth as though spring had commenced in real earnest.
Such weather has been unfavourable to insect life, and consequently but
few facts have come under our notice. Our great enemy, at the present

Itime, the vastator, has been extensively destroyed in the open air, and,

since the frost, have not myself observed a single specimen living in

Ithat situation.
         have received, during the month, Jerusalem artichokes, on the roots

Iof which a large aphis was feeding.
      Aphides, as a general rule, bear frost well, for took a crocus covered
with vastators, and froze them with ice and salt, but, on being brought
into a warm room, they resumed their activity, and again fed upon the

plants.

     In greenhouses the vastators are now feeding on various plants.

Several of my crocuses, on which they were allowed to feed undisturbed, are
now completely killed, and numerous others are on the high road to destruc-

tion. It appears that crocuses, like the potato plants, suffer most when the

Ileaf is required to deposit the solid matter for the bulb of the next year.

In my peregrinations round London, have observed a few vastators upon

nearly all the plants exposed for sale, which doubtless, during the next
month, will multiply at their ordinary rate of production, and thus form a
stock amply sufficient to destroy our crops alone. The tulips have, in most
instances, some of the destroying creatures upon their leaves, though they
may escape notice by fixing themselves on that part of the leaf which is
sheltered from rain or wind. During the last month some of my tulips
have been entirely killed by them. The creatures prefer some varieties of
            APPENDIX.                                            [No. XV.R.

Ithe same plant to others, and hence have observed that some kinds of

crocuses and tulips are more injured than others. The vastators are

attacking, pretty constantly, the verbenas, and many have materially
                             The same creature is also to be met with
Isuffered from their ravages.   have observed them to be feeding upon

upon numerous other plants.
the sweet potato of Shakspeare, a plant which they much admire.
The grower of strawberries may have the worst apprehension for his
crops this season, for there is scarcely a leaf in any district which has not
from three to twenty little black eggs upon it. Plants which have been
placed in stoves for forcing, have had the eggs upon their leaves hatched,

Iand large broods of aphides have already appeared : fear, next month,
Ithat shall have to record the injury or death of the forced plants
Ifrom this cause. To avert the probable injury to the outdoor crop,
should advise all the old leaves which have the eggs upon them to be
collected by hand, and burnt. Not having, as yet, seen the final state

I Iof the strawberry aphis, must defer passing a positive opinion;

do not think that it is the vastator, although, in all probability, equally

destructive.

    IAt my residence have an extensive colony of vastators, feeding upon
I Itulips and crocuses ; but have also two Ward's cases, into which had
strictly forbidden their entrance. The creature has, however, found its
way into my little London garden, and threatens to destroy my plants,

Iunless can first destroy it, and thus prevent the mischief.
    I IFrom accounts which have received, find that the vastator is now
attacking, in many situations, the potato plants ; and when this occurs, the

plant is hurried into premature decay. In other cases, the potato plant is
again showing the disease which has been imparted to its structure from

the injury inflicted on plants by aphides, during the last three or more
years, without a fresh attack of the insect.
The potato malady is no novelty ; it may be traced over a great series
of years ; at one time showing itself here, at another there, but at the
present time it unfortunately has manifested itself everywhere. In all

former instances temporary inconvenience has resulted, but after a period
the disease lessened, or disappeared for a time, and abundance succeeded
the scarcity. As a peculiar feature in the present scarcity, however, we
find that the farmer has not been taught to consider the malady transitory,
but the awful mistake has been made by some leading journals, to
recommend this crop to be abandoned, because the disease is permanent.
From this alarming advice, given by men who were in a position to have
made observations for themselves, which would have led to an opposite

conclusion, scarcity in the potato crop next year is inevitable. A sufficient
amount has not been, and probably cannot now be, planted to suffice for
use next season. The best kinds of potatoes for planting are those which

ripen early, because aphides most abound in July and August. The Early
Shaw is one of the best varieties, but so valuable are they at the present
moment, that to crop one acre of land, an expense of fifteen or eighteen
pounds would be entailed. Nevertheless, as scarcity next year is inevitable,
            plant immediately, even at that price, will reap an
those who                                                         abundant and
profitable  harvest. It is important for the farmer to know      that, although
it is now discovered that the vastator is the cause of the potato disease, we
are utterly ignorant of the cause of its preternatural appearance at the
No. XV.B.]  APPENDIX.  241

present time; and, whilst we are ignorant of this ultimate cause, it is

Imanifest that no person can state whether the disease will recur.

      During the last month have ascertained that tubers from former
healthy plants grow without showing the least signs of disease, even' under
the unfavourable conditions of the vitiated atmosphere in the forcing house,
proving this year, as last, that there is no other cause for the potato disease
but the vastator, and that, if the vastator does not recur, tubers from
former healthy plants will produce crops free from disease. As an article
of food, no root can compete with the potato ; but as an article of luxury,
numerous vegetables can be substituted where we only desire an adjunct to
animal food ; but these latter would not be expected to nourish the body
by themselves. Wheat, oats, and perhaps rye, can alone, in this country,
successfully compete with the potato, and therefore, where food is required,
one of them must be selected. Of vegetables, to be used with animal food,
the following may be employed : Scarlet beans, French beans, turnip v.,
carrot v., parsnip v.a., Jerusalem artichokes a.v., leeks a., onions a.,
cabbages v., savoy v., greens v., cauliflower v., broccoli v., spinach v.,
mustard v., lettuce a., beet v. Those marked with v. are liable to be

destroyed with the vastator ; those marked a. by other aphides. The

poor man would perhaps do well to make the following selection:
Scarlet beans, parsnips, carrots, Jerusalem artichokes, onions, cabbages,

savoys.
      Those who have not already planted their potatoes should do so forth-

with ; there is not a day to spare, for the sooner they are in the ground the
greater chance of success will be afforded. Should the vastator again
appear in our fields, and threaten to produce a continuance of the famine,

I have great pleasure in being enabled to announce, that from experiments
Iwhich have lately conducted, there is strong reason for believing that a

cheap and effectual plan may be employed for their total eradication, even
for the most extensive potato-grounds.

                                          FOOD OB FAMINE.

                          To the Editor of the ' Morning Herald'

       SIR, We have throughout these realms met this day to acknowledge
that the famine of the past year is beyond human control ; and the deep
reverence with which it has been kept indicates the universal belief that
in Providence lies our only hope for its alleviation.

      Insect plagues have formed, from the earliest times, the immediate
cause of the destruction of vegetable food, and the consequent production

of famine. In this respect our present failure differs not from antecedent

periods of scarcity ; and that which has been due to the locust, cockchafer,
and caterpillar, is now to be attributed to the vastator and other species
of aphides.

      As far as my observations extend, no vastator is now living out of
doors, and no mortal can tell whether this plague has passed away, or is
again about to recur. Fear of the disease must not, then, make us
abandon ourselves to despair, and leave our land uncultivated; as that

                                                                                                               B
242                      APPENDIX.           [No. XV.B.

which is unsown cannot be reaped, that which is not planted cannot afford

fruit.Famine now exists ; its subsequent pestilence is beginning to appear ;

it is now then high time not only to regard the present scarcity, but to
look to the probability of future want. Our land is untilled in many
                                      be procured in others, and the potato
parts of the country, seeds cannot    is abandoned, as though it were to fail
crop, the great resource of Ireland,

for ever.
      There is no evidence to show that the potato, rather than the wheat,

turnip, carrot, or any other plant, will perish this year; and from the
great produce which the potato affords, and the poverty of land which
suffices for its culture, it forms a highly eligible crop to be planted to the

ordinary extent.
        Potato tubers are now scarce, and high in price. Any attempt to
                    would double or treble    their cost unless those who still
buy them for seed
use this vegetable  will cease to employ it  for food. It becomes now, there-

fore, highly desirable that all who use potatoes should, for this season, at
once abandon them. By ceasing to use potatoes, they would preserve that
which should afford food and prevent famine next year. And by eating
them, they are tending to aggravate the scarcity, and cause the death of
numbers, by destroying their food.
      Let every householder at once substitute other food for the potato,
this year, for if there are none to buy, there can be none to sell ; and
there is now a sufficient abundance of good tubers for planting, if

no more be used.

     Their present application for food should be prohibited, if not by an
Order of Council or by Act of Parliament, by that which is more powerful
Ithan law universal public opinion. The preservation of the lives of

our fellow-creatures is at stake, and feel confident that all those will
abstain from potatoes who hear that such abstinence is eminently cal-

culated at this season to prevent the poor from perishing from want

next year.
        Having stopped their employment as a luxury at this time, they should

be sent directly to Ireland, and freely distributed amongst the poor for
planting, and the sets now to be met with in the London market are far
superior to those heretofore cultivated by these unhappy people, and are
far better adapted to resist the ravages of the vastator, should it un-

Ifortunately again appear.
      Sets from former healthy plants which have cultivated this year in
my friends' greenhouses, are now perfectly healthy, showing that healthy
sets and absence of the vastator- will ensure the usual abundant produce.

    IIn the event of the reappearance of the destroying insect, trust and
Ibelieve that, under the blessing of Providence, shall be enabled to give a

simple and effectual plan for its complete eradication.

        March 24, 1847.
No. XV.B.]                         APPENDIX.                                  243

                  EEPOET ON APHIDES FOE MARCH 1847.

IDuring the past month have been unable to add materially to our
knowledge of the ravages committed by these pests to the vegetable

Ikingdom. My former observations have caused gardeners to attend more

attentively to their existence, and find that, in greenhouses and hot-
houses, so much more care is taken of their annihilation than formerly,
Ithat scarce any exist.
          have found no vastator living out of doors, though other aphides
have, in some places, commenced their plant-killing labours. The peach
is, in some instances, affected, a fact to which Mr. Hurst (p. 196) has

Icalled attention ; but this aphis is not the vastator. The peach-trees

which have examined have been perfectly free. My infected tulips and
crocuses are nearly all dead ; as they perish, it is curious to observe the
myriads of winged ones which leave : they collected the other day in such
swarms on my passage window that, in one corner of a pane of glass,
at least a pill-box full were congregated together. On examining the
mangold- wurzels, they are found in many places to rot; and, notwith-
standing that they have been packed in clamps throughout the winter, a

few vastators may be found on the young leaves, interspersed here and

Ithere, showing that the cause of the rotting had been really present.
Ihave heard that the vastator is on the wheat in Ireland, but have been
unable to authenticate the fact.        beg that the corn crops may be con-

tinually examined, and should feel greatly obliged for communications
upon this matter. The strawberry plants which have the eggs of aphides
Ion their leaves have much suffered this winter.

      With regard to the potato plant, have some Russian varieties
in perfect health in a greenhouse, showing that there is no atmospheric or
other cause but the vastator which is likely to produce the disease.
IThese Russian potatoes were a little damaged in their passage, neverthe-
less are healthy in structure.          have yet in my possession about one
hundred tubers, and it will afford me great pleasure to give one to any

applicant, that the seed may be extensively circulated. Those who
receive a tuber will perhaps do me the favour to furnish a short account
of the produce, and their power of resisting the disease, at the end of

Ithe season.             called attention to the probability of scarcity of

     In my last report,
food, from the certainty of deficiency in the produce of potatoes next

season, and urged agriculturists to plant, for it is impossible to foresee
whether the insect will recur this year. Experience shows that a certain
and large crop can only be obtained from whole tubers, or considerable

pieces of tubers ; therefore such sets are to be preferred. Nevertheless,
the produce from a single tuber may be increased by planting very wide
apart, and layering, or by taking shoots off, as they sprout from the
           and planting them.
Ipotat"o,  should be inclined  to  try  the experiment  of using  but  small  por-

tions of the potatoes for sets such as scooped eyes or potato-peelings
although Marshall has ascertained that, under ordinary circumstances, the
crop is thereby materially lessened. These means would only be service-
able to restore the health of a diseased plant, not to arrest the malady at

its commencement.                                                 B2
APPENDIX.                                                 [No. XV.B.

      " Perhaps it might be advisable to allow the stalk to grow from the
tuber two or three inches high, and then to detach it and use it as a set.

By this plan we should throw the potato-plant for its resources upon the

leaves, and not upon the original set ; and doubtless, by attending to other
circumstances influencing the result, we should thus place the plant in a

good"cOonnediptiootnatofo-trubreegrenueproantingthisitsplfaibnrew. ould send forth numerous shoots,
and thus a great saving would be effected in the amount of potatoes used
for seed. We may expect, from the experiments of Marshall, that this
course would lessen the produce, and therefore this method would only

appertain to the regeneration of the potato plant, with the view of
obtaining again healthy seed, from which to propagate our plants."
Potato Plant, 487, 491, 492.

     In London we are supplied with the very best potatoes which exist,

and therefoi'e we are literally eating,  as a luxury, that which should serve
as food for the poor man next year.
                                          If thoughtless persons will eat the

seed potatoes, and others cannot be bought, surely the good of the

community, or even their own good, requires that public measures should

be taken to prevent the mischief.

Heretofore, when the crop failed, its culture was not abandoned ; and,

indeed, as every vegetable used by man for food occasionally fails, we

might have been left utterly without food had such a foolish course been

adopted. The absurd dogma of the wearing out of the plant, and its

being no longer capable of being trusted, has produced all the mischief
which will continue the scarcity next year.

REPORT ON APHIDES FOR APRIL 1847.

During the last month the weather has been still cold, and the spring
has been so extremely backward that but little vegetable matter is to
be found suitable for animal life. The backward spring has kept back
Ithe aphides, and comparatively few species are yet to be foimd. At present
  have seen no vastator abroad, except in greenhouses. The vastator feeds
Ieagerly upon the orange-tree, tuberous nasturtium, and many other green-
house plants, showing its omnivorous character.   have it now feeding

upon endogenous and exogenous plants. The aphis of the rose has
appeared sparingly, in warm situations; so has also the aphis of the
apple-tree, cherry, plum, blackberry, fir, and perhaps of other plants.
The aphis of the currant has appeared in many situations in great abun-
dance; on both black and red currants it may be readily found by
looking on the underside of the leaf, and the discoloration of the leaf will
Iindicate its position. From an examination of several strawberry grounds,
   have been greatly astonished at the extent of  mischief which has been
effected in some places by the aphis last year.   The presence of the eggs
indicates that the aphis lived upon the plant ; and where eggs are found
on the leaves, there may be observed great patches        of dead, withered
                                                          upon the plant by
stalks. In these cases, doubtless, the damage inflicted
the aphis last year caused it to be so debilitated, that  it ill resisted the
No. XV.B.]                      APPENDIX.                         245

severity of the weather during the past winter. The ladybirds are
exceedingly numerous, an occurrence which should be hailed with delight,
Ias they destroy the aphides by thousands. The early potatoes are

generally looking perfectly healthy, although have seen a few which are
badly diseased. The next month will probably indicate pretty well the
Iextent of damagewhich   we are   likely to experience   from aphides this
                   may  observe,                        be uninterruptedly
season ; and here                 that if the weather
Ihot, in all probability the creatures will multiply to a great extent, and do
great damage. Under any circumstance,      urge every gardener and

farmer closely to watch his plants, that as soon  as   aphides    extensively
occur, we may commence our war of extermination.                   curious to
                                                      It is very
watch a field of potatoes ; to see the destructive cloud of insects hovering
over, settling, and then distributing themselves over whole fields; to
observe how they first attack the larger leaves ; to notice the death of the

leaves, and finally of the entire haulm ; and then to perceive the troop
acquire wings and fly away. After all these have occurred, the fanner
may then study the fungi which come to eat up the damaged plant ; and,
Ilastly, he will have unfortunately to separate the sound from the unsound,
the healthy from the diseased.    return my best thanks for the kind

information transmitted to me, and beg to offer my sincere apologies for
not having directly answered my correspondents.

                           REPORT ON APHIDES FOB MAY 1847.

    IIn my previous reports, have had to record but few facts of the pro-

gress of these creatures, in consequence of the lateness of the spring. May,
however, has been remarkable for the great heat which has existed, and

with this heat a numerous host of these destructive creatures has appeared.
On the lime-tree, the beautiful spotted aphis, peculiar to that tree, may
now be found in the larva and winged state. On the sycamore, two
species now exist one which feeds upon the larger leaves, the other on
the top shoots. The oak has also its aphis, on the under-surface of the

Ileaf. The large aphis on the thistle is now feeding abundantly in some

places. In one instance observed the ivy to be literally covered with

countless numbers of aphides ; the leaves at the same time having a great
abundance of honey dew on their surface. The currant-tree has a pro-
fusion of its aphis, causing the leaves to be corrugated and discoloured.
The nut-tree aphis may also be detected ; and the willow, in some
instances, has thousands of aphides on its young shoots. The Aphis

lanigera may be noticed on the apple-trees ; and an aphis may also be
found on the larch and fir.

     All these are but of trifling importance when compared to the vastator.

I regret to state that this pest has reappeared ; but from whence it has
Icome, or how the species has been continued, am unable to state : for
Ialthough have abundance of eggs of other species, none have been found
Iof this insect ; and, since February, have been unable to discover any

living specimen till this week. It first appeared on warm walls, on the

peach, nectarine, and apricot trees, to such an extent, in some places, that
246  APPENDIX.                        [No. XV.B.

the young shoots are blighted, become withered and dried up, crumbling
under the slightest pressure : from these trees the creature has flown into
various other plants in their neighbourhood. On the turnip, it may be
found on the under-surface of the leaf; it has also made its appearance
Ion the potato plant. The first vastator which observed on the potato in
Iopen situations was found              have found it
                                      are scarce. In
sparingly in every district
     on May 24th, since which   time
     round London ; at present  they

Ianswer to an attempt which has made to show that my observations last

year were made upon a small tract of ground, beg to state that the
Iplants were narrowly watched over an extent of country of not less than
400 or 500 square miles, and  obtained insects and specimens from

various other parts of the country ; my observations during the last week
have not been less extensive. With respect to this crop, the leaves look
exceedingly well, although below ground ; in most situations there is
extensive decay in the stalks. Several practical men think but little of
Ithis decay, but there appears to me no question of its importance.
                                                                      have

noticed little tubers, hardly so big as a pea, to be separated from the

Iparent stalk by the destruction of the stem. In a former report
Imentioned that had Russian tubers perfectly healthy, though much

damaged in their transit by salt water. It is very curious that the
greater number which were left have become thoroughly rotten, and

many which grew have since exhibited the gangrene, at the underground

stems.

    IAt the present time there is not much to be done. With regard to

the renewed attack on the potato plant, should be inclined to be passive,

because any attempt to remove the very few aphides which now exist

might injure the plants rather than benefit them : the gardener should

destroy the insect by any of the methods he already well knows.
      Besides the vastator, there are still other aphides committing their
ravages. On the melon and cucumber may be found thousands of a very

minute aphis, feeding upon the under-surface of their leaves ; and, on the

rue, there are no less than three different species now to be found.

    IUnder all circumstances, the present extremely hot weather is favour-

able to the development of aphides ; and, therefore, am afraid we may
expect a repetition this year of the injury to the potato plant.

 INFLUENCE OP THE YASTATOR ON DIFFERENT KINDS OF POTATOES.

                           To the Editor of the ' Farmers' Journal.'

    ISIR, In my treatise on the Potato Plant have developed the im-

portant law of the unequal action of the vastator on different kinds of

potatoes. It is singular that so manifest a range of facts should pre-

viously have escaped attention; but now let us lose no time to take
advantage of its application.

      The unequal action of the vastator on different kinds of potato plants
must be attributed to two causes their unequal exposure to the destruc-
tive influence of the vastator, and to the unequal capacity of different
kinds to resist its deleterious agency.
No. XV.B.]                       .APPENDIX.                          247

Potatoes which ripen early run their course before the insect appears
in great profusion, and consequently escape : hence all early sets are best
adapted for planting, and early planting, to enable them to escape the
Imalady. As the period at which potatoes ripen is well known to agricul-

turists, need not call further attention to this subject.
    IThe unequal capacity of different varieties to resist its deleterious

agency find to depend upon the extent which each deviates from its

normal type ; and the more highly cultivated the plant is, the more prone
is it to disease. This is not only true of the potato, but is also true of all

Iother plants attacked by the vastator.
         beg to call attention to the following extracts from my work upon
Ithis
"suEbvjeecrty  :           kind  of potato, however, is not equally  prone  to

               particular

disease, or rather, may say, to carry its individuality or peculiarity into

its diseased condition. The supposed original Chelsea potato seems to

resist the action of this malady nobly, the disease only attacking it from

Ileaf to leaf, and not affecting so materially the underground stems.
Ihave carefully examined this specimen, in order to observe how it would

be attacked, and found that the large leaves were all destroyed, and that

the disease progressed from the large leaves to those somewhat smaller,

and so crept on till it progressed to the top. In consequence of this mode

of attack, the main shoot and all the lateral shoots were green, healthy,

and vigorous, and the plant appeared to a casual observer to be quite

healthy ; and the large leaves, or those out of sight, being alone
destroyed up to October the 16th, the plant was still growing vigorously.

At the Horticultural Society's Gardens, on my first visit, Uhde's wild

potatoes showed the disease only on the leaflet, and on a subsequent occa-

Ision there was also one other leaf curled. In both cases removed the
Idiseased leaf, and found that they were inhabited by a parasite, which
shall hereafter describe. No two kinds of potatoes show the effects of the
disease equally ; and it is generally supposed that that potato which

ripens in the early period of the year, manifests the malady less than
those which ripen later, so that the early shows are tolerable free from it.
On examining a field in which many varieties are cultivated, every sort
will be found to exhibit the malady in its own way : some varieties will be
Imore diseased than others, and some will die down earlier than others.

Some potatoes require more leaf than others, and have no doubt that
those which require an extensive crop of leaves are more prone to the

disease than others. At the Horticultural Society's potato-ground, many
kinds were found to have the tubers quite healthy, while others were much
Idiseased. The white-eyed red was of the former class ; the mouse of the
latter.     dare say that it will be found that the more nearly the tuber
reverts back to Gerard's old type, the more capable it will be of resisting
Ithe disease. The white-eyed red was in some respects similar to the old
species in the Chelsea garden.   applied at the Horticultural Society's
Gardens for a return of the relative number of good potatoes to bad ones
in each sort cultivated by them, but was unable to obtain it, as a similar
I Ireturn was ordered to be printed in their own Transactions."

      When made the application for this return, thought it a strange
coincidence that two individuals should at the same moment have desired
the same return, especially as the Society might have rendered the return
248                             APPENDIX.                                [No. XV.B.

Ilast year. However, knowing that many funny coincidences do happen,
Idid not at the time think much about it. However, after had examined
I Itheir potato-ground,
                         found that incurred no great loss by being
Idebarred from obtaining the above-mentioned return, for found that the
disease had visited them with a comparatively lenient hand this year, and

that it did not exhibit itself in its most destructive form.
    IFrom the imperfect return which the Horticultural Society could

afford, and their unwillingness to afford it, was induced to write to all
parts of the country for information, but yet did not obtain as much

Iinformation as could desire.
    IFor this reason am anxious to procure further information, and

particularly beg agriculturists to fill up the return and send it to my
residence as early as possible, that further information may be obtained

upon this point.

Kind of When      Nature of What Manure Total  Quantity of  Quantity of  Month in which
Potato. planted.  Soil.                             Good.         Bad.          Disease
                         used.  Produce.
                                                                             appeared.

    IThe late frost has diminished, though it has not killed the vastators,

and have found it all round London this week. It exists in nearly every

greenhouse, and is killing the verbenas in many situations. Under these

Icircumstances, every fact connected with it should be recorded, and there-

fore beg agriculturists to transmit to me accounts of the flights of
aphides last year, the present state of the aphides, as well as the return

Iwhich have before mentioned. We have now discovered the cause of the
Idisease, and trust that we may in future prevent it by destroying the

vastators.

       Dec. 24, 1846.

     LETTERS TO A JOURNAL ON THE SAME SUBJECT.

                  MR. SMEE ON THE APHIDES VASTATOR.

     IfSIR,       the late Government commission have recommended the
Iabandonment of the culture of potatoes, it is most unpardonable, but at

the present time have neither leisure nor inclination to wade through
their reports. They may with equal good reason recommend the farmer
Ito abandon the carrot, beet, spinach, turnip, parsnip, or even the wheat or

Indian corn, as have shown that the vastator attacks all these, and kills
whatever it attacks. We know not whether the vastator will recur again

Iin unwonted numbers, or whether it will altogether disappear. Under

such circumstances most emphatically recommend that the crops should
be planted as though no disease were apprehended. With regard to
Ipotatoes, choose sound sets, plant early, and select early kinds. The late
frost has not destroyed the vastators.         found them on Sunday at Totten-
No. XV.B.]      APPENDIX.                                        249

ham, on Monday at Fulham, and on Tuesday at Tooting, on the turnip,
shepherd's-purse, and mallow. The green-fly is easily killed by the smoke
of tobacco ; the vastator, however, will live when the green-fly is destroyed,

and thus, in smoking greenhouses, the vastator is left when the green-fly is

killed. At the present time the vastator is to be found in nearly all green-
houses upon verbenas, and it kills them by wet gangrene in the same way
that it injures the potato plant. The vastator is remarkably destructive to
Ithe potato and spinach plants, many less being required to kill them than
is required to destroy the beet or solani.  placed twelve potato plants in

a greenhouse in October for experiment : the vastator attacked them ; six

Iare now rotten, the other six are dying. One of the plants perishing from

the insect have sent to the Polytechnic Institution, where every visitor
can see it. Perhaps there never was a series of minute observations made
Ion so large a tract of country as mine, upon this subject.
                                                             made observa-

Itions over at least 400 square miles round London and Brighton, and
received specimens from the midland counties.  rejoice to find that a
knowledge of the insect is rapidly extending itself in all directions. Any
person may find it even now in their own gardens ; and as the spring
advances, it will be their duty to endeavour to exterminate it.

Dec. 23, 1846.

REAPPEARANCE OP THE APHIS VASTATOR UPON THE

ISIR,           POTATO PLANT.

            regret to announce that the Aphis vastator reappeared last
week upon the potato plant in every district round London. At present
it may be found sparingly upon the under-surface of the leaf, and, though
within the last few days it has multiplied twenty-fold, several plants must
be examined before it can be detected. The present hot weather is highly

favourable to the rapid multiplication of this pest, which, coupled with its

early attack, must lead us to have the worst apprehension for the crops

this season. This creature has already greatly damaged the peach, apricot,

and nectarine trees in many localities. It is now feeding upon the turnip,
potato, and other plants. Allied species are destroying the currant tree,

and damaging to such a serious extent the carrot, parsnip, and parsley

crops, that they have exhibited in some instances the fatal plague spot
noticed in previous years upon the potato plant. These facts, unfor-
tiinately, prove that in all human probability the great plague of aphides
will again run their destructive course this year.

June 5, 1847.

    IP.S. shall be obliged for information and specimens of the aphis

from all parts of the country.
                     APPENDIX.                             [No. XV.B.

THE POTATO DISEASE EXTENSIVE DISAPPEARANCE OF APHIDES.

                     From the ' Illustrated London News.'
IAt various times have had occasion to call the attention of the
public to facts connected with this destructive tribe of insects, and, in the
present instance, have to relate other circumstances connected with their
natural history which cannot fail to gratify the people. The importance
of bringing every fact before the agriculturist as it occurs must be appa-
rent to all; for it is upon a correct knowledge of the habits of these
creatures that the farmer must estimate the probable damage when his

crops are unfortunately attacked.

      During this year the bean aphis has committed most serious damage.

It has killed plants in some places to such an extent that not one pod is

left; and even over large fields the crop will not nearly yield the seed

sown. The insects continued to increase up to a certain point, and then,

without reference to the destruction of the plants on which they were

located, took wing, and formed an army formidable from their numerical
strength, which appeared completely to fill the atmosphere. The entire

number assumed the winged state within a few days, and left nothing

Ibehind but their cast skins. The winged insects settled upon any palatable

food. They fled by thousands upon the beet-root, on which have observed
them feed in a former year. When they alighted, they sucked the juices
of the plant in the ordinary manner, and sometimes killed the leaf of the

plant, which exhibited dark, black blotches. They, however, were not

doomed to remain long in this situation ; they speedily died, and have not,

in many cases, left a solitary individual to continue the brood. Those

which alighted upon the outdoor cucumbers were singularly destructive.
They settled upon the under-surface of the leaves in great swarms, and
fed upon the plant. Some of the attacked plants died from the injury
Ithey sustained ; in others the leaf alone was damaged.
                                                           have been much
Iinterested in watching the destruction of the cucumber : for have heard
that during the last two or three years this plant has gone off in some
mysterious manner for which the farmer could not account. In the

instances which have come within my observation, every insect has

perished, and but a few of the whole plants were destroyed, on account of

the short duration of the attack.

The bean aphis also alighted upon scarlet runners, French beans,

parsnips, onions, and various other plants and weeds. Groups of large
masses of dead winged insects may still be observed, although scarce one

live insect exists.
IThe Aphis vastator has also, in those districts which have examined,
Ibecome scarce.      do not know what has become of them all, but many

have been devoured by ladybirds, some have been killed by ichneumons,

others became unhealthy and perished. In proportion as the potato plant
is strong and healthy, so does it resist the attack of this parasite. The

puncture of the aphis hence is in some instances merely followed by a
little black spot ; in others by a large black botch ; and again, it may be

followed by a more or less complete destruction of the entire plant. In every

instance where aphides have been feeding, although they have now dis-
appeared, it will be found that the leaves are apt to perish, and the dying
No. XV.B.]         APPENDIX.                      251

potatoes may be frequently observed to be covered with a white down,

which in reality is a beautiful appearance of the Botrytis infectans. In

consequence of these appearances following the attack of the aphis, hasty
investigators are sometimes led to the belief that the potato disease occurs
without the insect a delusion now highly prized by those who admire the
marvellous, and delight to speculate in aerial, comet, and cholera theories.

The early kinds of potatoes are now, in most instances, ripening to

satisfaction, and the golden yellow colour of the foliage demonstrates that
the leaf is performing its last functions, and that the tuber is being well
filled with starch and other nutritive matters. The late kinds still look

well, and scarce any insects now exist in many situations. The agricul-
turist should not, however, trust too much to the pleasing intelligence, for

he should be aware that they may again return between this time and

November, and eat down his crop. The large nights of vastators last

year occurred between the 7th of September and the end of the month.

IThese remarks are quite independent of some local instances where the
disease has committed ravages to a great extent.  have heard of one

field which yielded 17 sacks of bad and 32 of good tubers, and doubtless

there are many other like cases, but they now form rather the exception
Ithan the rule.  have myself nearly 200 kinds of potatoes planted in
I Iground without manure, and do not think amongst the number that
will find a single diseased tuber.

Carrots and parsnips, which have been infested all the season, are now

comparatively free ; and the damage has not been so great as to prevent

their perfect recovery.
      We rejoice also to state that the corn aphis, which was disseminated

over every part of the country, even to a few seedling oats growing in a

vacant piece of ground opposite the Royal Exchange, is now diminishing,
or even, in many localities, has disappeared. Its effect was to injure the

produce, and cause black marks to appear upon the ear and stem. It

came too late to effect extensive damage in this country. Private letters

from Baltimore state that the wheat and potato crops are abundant, and
that the former has dropped in price to one-half its highest rate last year.

    IAt the commencement of the season called attention to the reappear-
Iance of the Aphis vastator. During the progress of the year have
Ipointed out the damage which various aphides have committed. Now

have to communicate the singular and welcome fact of their extensive and
sudden departure. The past has afforded no indication for the present,
nor can the present indicate the future. Before this article is distributed

Iover the country, the aphides may recur; and, though now write to
Icongratulate the farmer on his present prospects, must yet caution him

to be continually on the watch, so that he may immediately discover if
another plague of these all-destroying creatures should visit his crops. By

correct information on these points, arrangements can be made before-
hand ; and cheap food, one of the greatest of all desiderata, may be
secured for the people. '

FlNSBTJRY CIRCUS,                                 ALFRED SMEE.

Aug. 5, 1847.
252                                    APPENDIX.                                 [No. XV.c.

                                            No. XV.c.

RECENT RESEARCHES ON THE POTATO DISEASE. ROYAL
     HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE, April 5th, 1876.

      MAXWELL T. MASTERS, M.D., F.R.S., in the chair.

MR. "W. G. SMITH exhibited a number of new drawings and referred to

a recent examination made by him of 360 slides prepared by Mr. Alfred
Smee in the first year of the potato murrain, 1845. These slides included
slices of diseased potato stems, tubers and leaves, and aphides taken from

infected plants. In these tubers and stems, and also within and upon

the bodies of the aphides, Mr. Smith had found a large number of the
bodies recently referred by him to the secondary condition of the potato

fungu"sD. uring the last fortnight," continued Mr. Smith, " Mr. Alfred Smee
has placed in my hands for microscopic examination no fewer than 360

slides having reference to the potato disease. These slides were all pre-
pared by Mr. Smee in the first year of the great potato murrain, viz.
1845, and the preparations include potato leaves, slices of stem and tuber,

and  a"pOhuidtesofta1k0e4n   from      diseased potato   plants in that year.
                            slides     illustrative of  the structure of the
                                                                               potato  plant,

twenty-seven distinctly show the oogonia and antheridia, as illustrated by
me in the ' Gardeners' Chronicle :' these bodies mostly occur in the stems
and tubers of the 1845 potatoes, just where they principally occurred in

the  Chiswick  potatoes last year.
     " Of the  remaining slides of
                                       insects,          principally  aphides,   about  one-

half show traces of the same bodies. The threads are growing both inside

and outside the aphides : sometimes the oogonia are deeply buried in the

body, whilst the whole insect is traversed by mycelial threads ; many of the

Ioogonia are inside the legs, sometimes inside the feelers. These oogonia

and antheridia are presumedly the same as those found last year upon
and within the diseased Chiswick potatoes, and they are exactly the same
                                       in Mr. Smee's 1845 potato preparations.
as  the bodies now to be seen          of aphides the insects are densely covered
      " On two special slides

externally with a fungus in fruit. So dense is the covering, that very
little of the insect's body can be seen. This fruit is almost identical in
size and form with the fruit of Peronospora infestans, and, like the latter,
it shows a marked differentiation of its contents, and apparently produces
zoospores. By carefully searching amongst this dense mass of fruit, the

oogon" iaWiathnoduat ntwhiesrhidiniag  above mentioned   can  also be detected.  new    facts,
                                        to speculate on  the  meaning of these

it must be confessed that this new association of these fungoid bodies on
diseased potatoes and aphides is new and suggestive. As my last year's

IChiswick resting-spores are apparently still alive, though latent, hope
to try some experiments with them as soon as they start into life in the

early summer."

      Mr. Renny considered that the relationship to Pythium was

strengthened by Mr. Smee's preparations. In Saprolegnia the antherid

was always borne on finer threads than the oogonium.                  From the 'Gardeners'

Chronicle,' April 8th, 1876.
No. XV.c.]  APPENDIX.  253

     In 1875 it thus appears that Mr. Worthington Smith discovered the
secondary form of fruit of the potato fungus in the seed tubers of imported

American potatoes growing at Chiswick ; and for this discovery the Royal
Horticultural Society bestowed upon him their Knightian gold medal.

Until that year it would appear that these secondary forms of fruit of

the fungus were unknown, although their existence had been previously

suspected.

      No one challenged Mr. Smith's interpretation of the bodies discovered
except Professor De Ba-rry, the French botanist. Professor De Barry
stated that he had seen somewhat similar bodies at times within potato
plants, but he considered they could not belong to the potato fungus,
because he could not make them complete their (fungus) entire life within
the potato plant, although he could make them apparently complete it in
the decaying bodies of minute insects. This opinion of Professor De Barry
was invalidated by some contemporaneous observations made by Dr.
Sadebeck, of Berlin, who said he had seen a parasite similar to that of

Mr. Smith's and Professor De Barry's growing on a potato plant at
Coblentz, and producing a disease in no way to be distinguished from the
ordinary murrain of potatoes. The question then presented itself whether
the potato fungus could grow on animal substances, like some of the fungi
to which it was immediately allied, as the fungus of house-flies, of silk-

worms, &c.

      As it was the winter season, 1876, when this question arose, Mr. Smith
applied to Mr. Smee, who placed his own collection of microscopical slides
of aphides and of diseased potatoes, mounted by himself during the potato

Imurrain in 1845-1847, in that gentleman's hands for examination.
       Through the kindness of Mr. Worthington Smith, am enabled to
give the following woodcuts of one of the microscopical preparations of
Mr. Alfred Smee's own collection, mounted by himself, of the Aphis vastator
and of a slice of diseased potato. The Aphis vastator is here enlarged
twenty diameters, and the minute fungus fruits are to be seen inside the

insect at A, B, c.

       These bodies belonging to the fungus are further enlarged on the
margin of the cut to 160 diameters, so that their nature may be better seen.
Some of Mr. Smee's aphides are completely filled with the fungus inter-
nally, and covered with it externally; and though Mr. Smee did not
completely understand the meaning of the fungus (at a time when it had
not yet been described), yet it is clear that he saw the fungus on the
insect, for some of the slides are scratched with a diamond and marked
" fungi." As far as we know, no one but Alfred Smee had detected aphides
 in this peculiar state of disease, and we believe the condition is unknown

 even now to most entomologists.

     If any further proof had been wanting as to the identity of the

bodies found in the potato with those in the aphis, it was supplied by the
behaviour of Mr. Smith's secondary form of fruit when (after a whole
year's rest) it germinated. Mr. Smith found on germinatien that the
 spores grew equally well on vegetable as on animal matter.

      It should be here observed that in Mr. Smee's book on the Potato Plant

it will be seen that a chapter of that work is devoted to the various kinds
 of fungi which are to be found on diseased potatoes, and there are several
 lithographic plates illustrating this subject. On plate 3, fig. 7, is a
254                                        APPENDIX.                           [No. XV.c.

drawing of a fungoid growth as observed by rny father on an Aphis

vastat&r. On plate 4, amongst other kinds of fungi, is a parasitic fungus
                    of the Aphis vastator.       At page 77 of the same work he writes :
"onDotuhbetlleesgs   the fungi exercise an
                                                important influence upon the progress of
the disease, although they most assuredly have not the power of producing

it. In fact, they never make their appearance until the potato plant has
                                                                      of  it is already dead."
been  apgraeinv,ioautslpyadgaem1a2g2e:d,"  and until some portion         a very close relation
And                                        There appeal's to me to    be

between the injury committed by the aphides and the appearance of fungi ;

Resting-spores of the Potato Fungus within        FIG. 14.                                     The same
      resting-spores enlarged to 160 diameters                                               Smee's 1845
                                                an Aphis at A, B, c, enlarged 20 diameters.
      preparations.)                            on right-hand margin. (From one of Mr.

                                                FIG. 15.

Resting-spores of the Potato Fungus within the cellular tissue of Potatoes. A. From the stem.
     B, c. From the tuber, enlarged 160 diameters. (From one of Mr. Smee's 1845 preparations.)

I Ifor in numerous cases where have observed fungi on the leaf, have also
                     on the plant.
noticed    aphides  a singular fact        that  there    is  a word  in  the  Hebrew language
           is also
     " It

which means blight and mildew collectively, meaning thereby aphis and

fungus."
In 'Instinct and Reason,' p. 261, Mr. Smee deduced the following
law of    the ravages of the aphides :
    " 1.  Aphides feed on living plants.

     2. Aphides come first upon healthy plants.
No. XVI.]                       APPENDIX.                                             255

      3. Aphides suck the juices of plants after having pierced the cuticle.
      4. Aphides, by sucking the sap, impair its qualities.

      5. The sap, being injured, no longer performs its proper functions.

      6. The injured sap cannot properly nourish the plant.
      7. TJnnourished or imperfect tissue is apt to die.
      8. Partial death, following the attacks of aphides, may be local at the
part affected, or remote ; that is to say, at a distance from the attack.
      9. Th,e total death of the plant may arise from the death of a part

necessary to the whole.

      10. Wild plants, or plants in a condition calculated to develop fibre,
will resist the attacks of the aphides.

      11. Highly cultivated plants, or plants not under circumstances
favourable to the formation of fibre, ill resist the attacks of aphides.

      12. Plants are most injured by aphides at that period of their growth

when they are required to deposit most fibre.
      13. Plants having their tissues damaged by aphides are more or less

apt to propagate diseased tissue in all their future growths.
      14. The damage to the plant hastens the transformation of aphides to

the perfect state.

15. The attacks of aphides are almost invariably followed by the

growth of fungi."
In ' My Garden,' published in 1872, in the chapter on Fungi, Mr.

Smee again   puts forwards his  theories  "oOn ntehefosrumbjecotf  of the potato disease,
for at page  363 we find these  words :                            fungus has attracted

Imuch attention of late years, as it has been represented to be the cause of

the potato disease. From my own observations believe that an aphis

invariably punctures the leaf before the attack of the fungus. It is

possible that the punctures of the insect allow the zoospores of the fungus

which have ciliae to penetrate into the interior structure of the leaf, whence
the mycelium spreads into every part of the texture of the plant. The
fungus appears as a white powder to the eye, but when examined by a
microscope the white patch proves to be a forest of little branching stems

surmounted by oval bodies. It was called by Berkeley Botrytis infestans,
and now the genus is named Peronospora." A figure of this fungus is then

given.

                                      No. XVI.

ELEMENTS OF ELECTRO-BIOLOGY; OK, THE VOLTAIC MECHANISM

      OF MAN, BEING A NATURAL SYSTEM OP MENTAL PHILOSOPHY.
      By ALFRED SMEE. Published February 1849. (From ' Chambers's
      Edinburgh Journal.')

ME. SMEE not only confirms the conclusions of prior investigators ; he

goes further,   and   endeavours to   account   for mental         "asrewqeuilrleads  physical
phenomena.     " The  physiological  matter,"  he observes,                           two lines

of investigation : the one having reference to the ultimate structure of
organic beings ; the other to the actions taking place in them. . . . By the

electro- voltaic test, the mechanism of nervous actions has been determined.
256                                 APPENDIX.                                                        [No. XVI.

.... Whilst, however, electricity appears to me to be an important agent
Ifor the cure of disease, the cases in which it is especially valuable are com-

paratively few ; and myself regard the treatment upon general electro-
therapeutic laws as more valuable than the immediate action of electricity
tithseelaf.u"thoTr hustsatmesucthhaptrem" iasecde, nittrablecpoamreenschnyemceas,saray
                                                                                        to describe  the battery  :
                                                                                        peripheral   parenchyma,

connected together, and each supplied with bright arterial blood, are

necessary for life. It follows that bleeding causes death ; that the supply
of imperfect blood, such as carbonaceous blood, is insufficient for life.
Moreover, a destruction of the central parenchyma, by injuring the brain,

or of the peripheral, by destroying the body, instantly prevents the
manifestations of the functions of animal life. . . . Now a central
apparatus, supplied with a peculiar fluid, a peripheral apparatus similarly
supplied, the whole connected together to form one universal total, is
Ifthe apparatus desired; and such an apparatus we have in a double voltaic
battery.  we abstract the proper exciting fluid from either end, or sub-

stitute any other fluid, or destroy the structure either at one end or

the other, or divide the connecting portions or wires, the effects proper to
the apparatus will not be manifested, and the battery will be destroyed."

     That animal membranes and fluids may take the place of metallic

plates,   :wiaresp, ileandwaascidcso,nsitsruacptepda,rent"   from an    experiment                  suggested by
Liebig                                                      consisting   of disks                  of pasteboard

moistened with blood, of muscular substance (flesh), and of brain. This

arrangement caused a very powerful deflection of the needle of the
               indicating a current in
galvanometer,  this Mr. Smee observes                       the direction of the                     blood to the
muscle." On                                                                                          have a nitro-
                                                            : " In the muscles we
genized material which is acid ; in the blood we have a nitrogenized mate-
rial which is alkaline; and the connecting part or nervous fibres are

neutral        The periphery or body, therefore, consists of the muscular

substance, forming one pole ; the cutaneous tissues the opposite ; the

Iserous fluid, which lubricates the parts, being the electrolyte. The whole

forms a voltaic battery, which shall hereafter consider in minute detail

as  the  Peripheral Battery.
      "  From the peripheral
                                    battery  two            series  of  connecting                 media  proceed

    Ifthe first, the muscular nerves, or nerves supplied to the flesh ; the second,
the nerves distributed to the cutaneous textures.                                       we examine the nerve-

fibres in recently-killed animals, we find that they consist of fine tubes

containing a fluid, and lined with a peculiar species of fat, which may be
obtained, from their prolongation into the brain, in large quantities, when
the part is soaked in alcohol for a long period. In this structure we have
all the conditions necessary to insulation namely, a fine membranous
tube lined with fat on its inner side, and containing a fluid in the centre ;

and such a structure, as far as electrical properties are concerned, would

be  an"aIlofgwoeusfotloloaw  glass   tube containing liquid.
                              the   course of the nerves, we
                                                                    find                that they  are prolonged
to the brain, and end in the grey matter, where they again come in con-
tact with a large quantity of blood-vessels. As the two series of nerves
are not immediately connected in the brain, it follows, according to the
laws of voltaic action, that another battery exists there, which may be
termed the central battery                   For the integrity of the circuit, it is

essential that the peripheral and central batteries be perfect ; that their
No. XVI.]                                          APPENDIX.                                               257

connection be maintained ; and that a proper exciting fluid, or bright-

arterial blood, be distributed to each part."
Such is Mr. Smee's view of the living battery : we come next to his
detail of the mode of action. For this he proposes the term Electro-
Aisthenics, or a study of the various organs of sensation; and these
are comprised under a new terminology : Opsaisthenics, of | sight ;
Ousaisthenics, of hearing ; Gumaisthenics, of taste ; Bhinaisthenics, of
smell ; Coenaisthenics, of touch ; and last, a sixth sense, Somaisthenics, or
bodily feeling. Blood and nerve being present in a normal condition, the
integrity of the various actions is assured. The eye, for example, is
stimulated by light, leading to the inference of a photo- voltaic current.
By means       of  "vUarpioonusexcphoesminicga,"l  solutions,      t"hteheaaupthpoarrateusstabtolisihnetesnsteheligfahct,t
artificially.                                      he writes,

Ithe galvanometer was instantly deflected, showing that the light had set

in motion a voltaic current, which propose to call a photo-voltaic circuit."
The eye itself is tested by thrusting a needle through the choroid coat,

and another into a neighbouring muscle, and passing the animal experi-

mented on suddenly from darkness into light, when, if carefully conducted,
a slight deflection of the galvanometer is the result. With the retina and

blood of the choroid coat for the positive pole of the organ of vision, we
find the iris and muscles of the eyeball and eyelids proposed for the
negative. The phenomena of hearing are accounted for in a somewhat

similar way; the poles being the auditory nerve and adjacent muscles.

The specific action can only be                    determined      by   showing that   s! ou"ndTheefferactnsgea
voltaic current ; and then how                     various are     its  modifications

of sounds appreciated by the human ear consists of about 12-j octaves, and
perhaps extends to the 32nd of a note in those endowed with most
perfect hearing. From this it follows that the human ear can distinguish
about 3200 sounds ; and therefore it would require 3200 poles for that
                With respect to the
purpose."                                          organ    of taste, Mr. Smee                          assumes the
gustatory      nerve as the positive               pole ;  and states that " we                         may make a

voltaic battery in which the circuit shall be determined by savours, in very
different methods. For instance, if we place a little persalt of iron, with
two platina poles, in a Y-shaped tube, and then drop a little infusion of
meat into one side, a voltaic circuit will instantly be produced." Next in

order comes the sense  of smell :                  and here        the  "afuatchiolirtastuinpgpostehse  that odorous
substances determine   abvloooldta;ic"             current,        by                                   reduction of
the highly-oxygenated
                                                   and that the olfactory nerves constitute

the positive pole of the battery. He then proceeds to establish a sense of

Tfeheelingfo, rmCeore, nahisethseanyisc,s, "  as   distinct from   Somaisthenics, or    bodily             feeling.
                                                  that feeling by   which we derive    certain             impres-
                                              is

sions from without, and is never in our understandings confounded with

a bodily feeling, or that sense by which we estimate the changes taking

place within our own frame." Thus Ccenaisthenics may be excited by
heat or cold, or by mechanical or other pressure ; and it is possible to
imitate this effect by varieties of voltaic apparatus. But it would appear
that, in experimenting on the living body, muscular power must be
exerted before the galvanometer marks any trace of a current, as will be

Iunderstood from Mr. Smee's statement.                                           "undinetrrodteusctedwaosnea

" black rabbit, into the masseter of which,"
                                                                   The subject
                                                                   he observes,

sewing needle, whilst the second was placed in the subcutaneous cellular

                                                                                                        8
258                                     APPENDIX.                     [No. XVI.

tissue. After leaving them for a few minutes, so that they might be in

the same state, they were connected with the galvanometer without
sensible deflection of the needle. After a few moments, the animal, not

liking the treatment, made an attempt to bite my finger, and the deflection
Iof the galvanometer instantly showed the mechanism of volition.
                                                                      then
gave the creature a piece of wood to bite, upon which it used all its power
of mastication; and by catching the oscillation of the needle, a very

powerful current was exhibited."
     We have thus, as clearly as the subject would well admit of, traced an

outline of the author's peripheral battery : we now come to the details
concerning the central battery. The author maps out the brain into
different regions, separated by commissures : to the first, which repeats the
impressions conveyed by the sensor, or aisthenic nerves, he assigns the
term Phreno-Aisthenics : the second, or that by which combined impressions
are retained, is Syndramics : third, the seeing of numerous objects, or
hearing of numerous sounds, conveys but one idea of sight or audition ;
the term for this mechanism is Aisthenic-Noemics : fourth, Syndramic-
Noemics, for the ideas derived from combined senses : fifth, Pneuma-

Noemics, for the notion of infinity : and lastly, to quote the author's own
words, " we have to consider from whence the impulse is sent for the brain to

cause action : a study which may be conveniently followed under the term

                                        The details are exceedingly difficult to com-
Iof Noemic-Dynamics
prehend in all their minutiae ; and yet trust, by passing gradually from

the simple to the complex, the leading features of this wonderful and
intricate apparatus will be developed; and though the exemplification

Iof the structure of a single brain would occupy many acres, can exhibit
examples of the mode of acting in the several departments by ordinary

voltaic combinations.
      " The requisites of action, blood, and nerve, are found in sufficient
abundance in the central battery or brain, as that organ is literally nothing
but fibres and blood-vessels. The nervous fibres are so numerous, that no

estimate could be given of the myriads of which the brain is composed ;
in fact, the whole of the white matter of the brain is composed of nerve

tubes."

      We believe it was Coleridge who once met a metaphysical serving-
maid at a tavern in Germany, and was surprised by hearing her express
her belief that every thought, idea, or impression received generated in the
brain, remained there ever afterwards, each one stored up in a minute cell,

and that good or bad memory would consist in the greater or lesser power
Ifof re-opening these cells and making use of their contents.
                                                                      science be

cstoamtepset:en" tWtho ednetearmmianne  the point, she was not   far  from the truth. Mr. Smee
                                        receives an impression,       is not evanescent, passing
                                                                  it
immediately away, but it is retained in the system to regulate future actions.
Now, in voltaic constructions, it is not difficult to produce an action which
shall influence future  motions, and thus exhibit the effects of memory.
                        iron wires, and place them in a solution of argento-
    " If we take two

cyanide of potassium, and direct a voltaic current through them, silver
would be reduced at that wire constituting the negative pole. The two
wires would be ever afterwards in different electric relations to each other ;
one would be positive, the other negative : and thus the effects of memory
would be shown, and future actions regulated."
No. XVI.]                           APPENDIX.                                           259

As the nerve-fibres all terminate in the grey matter of the brain, these
terminations are taken to be the negative poles. In this way the entire
body is repeated in the brain, which organ again is supposed to be double,
and yet so constituted, that two impressions made at different parts of the
body convey but one idea to the mind. Under the head of Syndramics the
author shows that the large size of the brain, with its multiplicity of fibres
and vesicles, is necessary for the reception of the endless variety of
impressions made upon that organ. When it is remembered that twenty-
four changes can be rung on only four bells, we may form some conception
of the myriads  of changes    to be effected in             or 3000
each organ of   sense. Mr.      Smee considers   the 2000    brain   "eplerombeanbtlsy  from
                                                  that the                               con-

tains room for all the most important, when packed and arranged with the

absolute perfection manifested in all the operations of nature."

Without following each step of the investigation, we may state that
each portion of the brain, as enumerated above, is severally treated of in a

somewhat similar process of reasoning. A few of the conclusions at which
the author arrives will serve to show
theory. " The faculty of desiring,"         the   mode by   w" hreicsholvhees  builds   up his
                                            he   observes,                      itself  into a

tendency to act, and is manifested when the central batteries are in a con-

dition of excitement. Desire is to mental operations similar in all respects
to tension in electric arrangements. When the desire is gratified, it ceases
for a time. This phenomenon is similar to an exhausted battery in which

arrangements exist for replenishing the exciting fluid ; as in this case,

Iafter a time,the  battery  would   again become active,    and exhibit        tension."
              "    might    dilate   largely upon the       mechanism          by which
     Again
pleasure and pain may be regulated; but it will be sufficient to give a
                                                        in which,   in the voltaic
single illustration of the    most simple method                   minute piece of
circuit, a strong impression   might stop action.       If a very
metal be placed in a glass of fluid as a positive pole, and a large current be

passed through it, the metal would instantly be dissolved, and the circuit
could not be completed by that road. What is true of solid poles is true
of liquid poles, or intervening fluid; and where repair is constantly
necessary, as we know it is in the brain, a strong impression would more
than equal the ordinary supply, and thus action, through that combination,
would be stopped. The effect upon the brain by a painful impression
appears to amount to more than mere exhaustion, as the part seems
damaged permanently, and the action through that road does not again

readily take place."     come to Electro-Psychology,        or " properties             of the
      Next in order we

mind, deduced from the voltaic structure of the brain." This portion of

the subject involves many important considerations and metaphysical

isdpeeacuolaftiiomnms. ortaMlrit.y.Sme"eWfiendksnaowp,r"ocheesssafyosr, e"vferroymfatchueltyv,ereyveonrguapnitzoatitohne

of our bodies, that we are immortal ; that God exists ; that there is virtue
and vice ; a heaven and a hell. Man, in every age, in every climate, is
                                                        these first principles. . .
compelled, by his  very   organization,  "  to believe  the basis of jurisprudence.     .
Electro-Noemics,"   he   also explains,     should be
It shows that crime and pain should be associated together at the same
time, because a stronger result would attend punishment inflicted the

moment the crime was about to commence. Such a course is suitable for
the lowest intellects, or persons of the lowest mental capacity. When,

                                                                               82
260                            APPENDIX.                          [No. XVII.

however, good principles could be effectively instilled, they would control
        action, and prove far
every"  Electro-Noemics also   more  useful.  produce  a  strong  effect in future
                               show  that to

actions, a strong impression must be left on the brain. From this cause
punishment should be inflicted upon a man in a healthy, vigorous condi-
tion, and neither ill-fed nor debased in energy ; otherwise the impression

would be transient or evanescent, and would not deter the party from the

commission of future crime. Electro-Noemics also indicate that slight and

proportionate punishment invariably following crime, would have more
effect than severer punishment, with less chance of its infliction."
       From the foregoing summary of Mr. Smee's book, it appears to con-
tain matter interesting to other classes of readers as well as electricians
and physiologists ; but we believe that the time is distant when legislators
or philanthropists will discuss questions of social economy or politics in an
electro-biological point of view. Still, we are willing to accept the work

as another contribution towards an inquiry that has long engaged the

attention of philosophers : biology, the science of life, is a subject of per-

manent interest ; and if a writer do no more than provoke discussion, he

may do that which will eventually elicit truth.
       We here close our notice of Mr. Smee's book with an enumeration of

its further contents points of the investigation into which we have not
thought it necessary to enter. They are Electro-bio-Dynamics, or the
forces produced in the living body ; Bio-Electrolysis, or the changes taking
place in the human body; Electro-Biology of Cells, or the relation of
electricity to growth, nutrition, and circulation ; and last, Electro-Thera-

peutics and Pathology.

                                 No. XVII.

LECTURE ON ELECTRO-BIOLOGY; OR, THE VOLTAIC ME-
     CHANISM OF MAN. Delivered by ALFRED SMEE at the London
      Institution. (' The Lancet,' April 21st, 1849.)

THE subject of my present lecture is Electro-Biology, which literally
means neither more nor less than the relation of electricity to the vital
functions. Now, systematic writers divide the vital functions into two
great classes into those of animal life, and into those of organic
life.

       The functions of animal life will particularly occupy our attention
this evening; and for their consideration, we shall have to study the
apparatus by which the animal receives impressions from, the external
world, transmits them to the brain, registers them, combines them, and
acts, not only upon the immediate
                                     impressions,      but also upon those which
it has received at former periods.
      For the manifestation of the functions of animal life, we require a
central parenchyma or brain, a peripheral or body, the two being con-
nected together by a peculiar tissue called "nerve-fibre;" and at both
situations a proper   supply of  bright arterial blood
production of the    phenomena                            is requisite,   for the
                                  of life. If we look     to purely      physical
No. XVII.]              APPENDIX.                                       261

contrivances, we  find that similar  conditions are    fulfilled  by a  double
voltaic circuit.
                                                    S
                  Z  -                              Z
                  S

    If we abstract the proper exciting fluid from either end, or substitute

any other fluid, or destroy the structure at one end or the other, or divide
the connecting portions or wires, the effects proper to the apparatus will
not be manifested, and the battery will be destroyed. The analogy between
the mechanism of a double voltaic circuit and that of animal life is
quite complete ; for if we pith an animal, an operation which separates the
brain from the body, or remove the blood from the brain or from the

peripheral part, or destroy the structure of either the brain or the peri-
phery, action is stopped, and animal life ceases.
You will at once say, doubtless, that man has no metallic wires, no

Iplates ; and therefore, you may naturally ask, how far does that fact

destroy the analogy which have given to you ? It is not necessary,
however, that the connecting portion should consist of metal ; and though
Iall present are doubtless accustomed to see the electric telegraphic wires

along the course of the railways, yet have here upon the table an example
of fluid telegraphic conductors, which answer as efficiently for the con-

ducting of the voltaic force, as wires or metals. Those amongst you who

reside at Upper Clapton, may remember some time since to have seen

mysterious wires placed at an elevated situation round the Horse-shoe

IPoint on the river Lea. At the time these wires were in that situation,
was experimenting upon the conducting power of liquids,
found to possess that property in an extraordinary degree.        aInfdthtehenyerwveerse,

however, carry the voltaic force, they might perhaps be expected to have

Iwithin themselves some means of insulation; and from my own micro-

scopical examination of nerve-fibre perfectly fresh, believe that a layer
of fat exists in the interior of each primitive fibril, which would as effi-

ciently insulate it as the gutta-percha of my tube does these artificial

nerves which are placed on the table.

     In this double voltaic apparatus before you, in which the communi-

cating portion consists of gutta-percha tubing, filled with acid and water, a
powerful voltaic current is passing, but one which will yield no indications

of its presence to ordinary voltaic tests. It is no easy matter, gentlemen,
to prove the presence of a voltaic current in a fluid, and for a long period

I did not know how to proceed to render its existence certain. However,
Iat last observed, if any metal capable of being oxidized was interposed in
Ithe path of a voltaic circuit, that one portion becomes positive, the other

negative : and that this result is no fanciful chimera, now show you an
electro-metallurgic precipitating trough, in which a piece of copper is
inserted between the positive and negative plates, and you will at once

perceive that the portion near the negative pole has become acted upon
or positive, the part nearest the positive pole has become negative, and
Ihas metallic copper deposited upon it. From this experiment
                                                                        saw

that a mode was afforded to me of ascertaining the presence of a voltaic
Icircuit in any fluid. To give you a practical illustration of the value

of the electro-voltaic test, have introduced two copper wires into one
of the gutta-percha tubes constituting my artificial nerves, and you will
262              APPENDIX.                           [No. XVII.

Iperceive that the moment connect them with a galvanometer, deflec-
Ition ensues. Animal bodies consist solely of membranes and fluids, and
therefore, in the order of my investigations,    had to study batteries

solely composed of similar materials. This form of voltaic circuit is
extremely difficult to investigate, though one is placed upon the table for

Iyour inspection.

      After had thoroughly studied the electro-voltaic test, the time
Iarrived to ascertain whether a voltaic current was actually passing during

nervous action : for although the analogies which have detailed were, to
my mind, complete, yet analogy would be useless without the corrobora-
tion of direct experiment. My first experiment was to introduce two steel

needles into a rabbit : the first into the masseter, or muscle which enables

the creature to masticate ; the second, into the subcutaneous cellular tissue.

After two or three minutes, the creature, which was very tame, attempted to

bite my finger ; the power of volition was sent to the muscle : this acted

upon my electro-voltaic test, and you may judge of my inexpressible
delight when the deflection of the needle showed to my mind the mecha-
nism of volition. These needles being between the skin and muscle, the

course of the voltaic circuit is clearly demonsti-ated to exist between these

two points, and therefore each required a most minute consideration.

     Sensations are received by various organs which are destined to be

acted upon by certain physical forces, as the eye by light, the ear by
sound, the nose by odours, the tongue by savours, or the skin by heat

or force.

     It is quite certain that if a voltaic circuit is generated in the eye,

there must be such contrivances as photo- voltaic circuits ; that is, voltaic

Icircuits in which light causes the evolution of electricity. In trying the

experiment, found that there was not only an extensive series of com-
binations in which the sun's rays determine the generation of electricity,
but that in one division light caused a positive voltaic circuit; in the
second, a negative voltaic circuit. The table of these circuits will illustrate

the manner in which these circuits are formed, by using solutions so

arranged that one portion may be screened from the light, and the second

may be acted upon powerfully by the sun's rays.

                 NEGATIVE PHOTO- YOI/TAIC CIRCUITS.

Mixed solutions  of proto-sulphate of iron and nitrate of silver.
                     gallic acid and nitrate of silver.

                     oxalic acid and chloride of gold.

                     ferrocyanate of potash and ammonio-percitrate of iron.
                     ferrocyanate of potash and ammonio-pertartrate of iron.
                     feiTocyanate of potash and potassio-tartrate of iron.

                           POSITIVE PHOTO-VOLTAIC CIRCUITS.

Mixed solutions of pernitrate of iron and red ferrocyanate of potash.
                             bromine water, phosphorus water, and pernitrate of iron.

    I IThese experiments cannot show you this evening, because cannot
Icommand the sun's rays to shine upon one side of my apparatus ; but

from what have stated, you will perceive that it is quite within the range
of ordinary physical effects to have voltaic circuits set in action by light.
No. XVII.]  APPENDIX.                                               263

Having developed photo-voltaic circuits, the eye itself next demands
our attention ; and we find nerve and blood to be abundantly supplied to
that organ. The electro-voltaic test is best applied by the insertion of one
Ineedle into the choroid, the second into the muscles of the eyeball, and

  found a slight deflection of the galvanometer when a strong light was
thrown into the eye, proving that vision was a voltaic phenomenon.
The essential part of the organ of hearing is encased in textures of
such extreme hardness, that it will probably be for ever prevented from
Ibeing the subject of direct experiment. In the cochlea,
                                                          believe we
may reasonably assume that the pitch of the note is determined ; and
in the semicircular canals which are placed in the three orthogonal planes
of a cube, physiologists are pretty generally agreed that animals learn the

direction of sound. Blood and nerve essentials to voltaic action are

here distributed, and no physical difficulty is presented to the probability
of a voltaic circuit being determined by sounds.

The nasal organ is, like the ear and eye, liberally supplied with blood
and nerve-fibres. The voltaic circuit is easily demonstrated by the electro-
voltaic test ; but the animal has an extraordinary repugnance to the

operation, and you must be extremely careful not to be deceived by other
Isecretions which are competent to set up the voltaic action.
                                                               can very
readily show you that it is not at all difficult to form voltaic circuits,

Iin which odours should excite the electric action. The tube which hold
in my hand contains two iron plates, which are separated by a mem-
brane; and on each side pieces of sponge, dipped in very dilute muriatic

acid, are arranged. Now, if ammoniacal vapour, which produces the

most powerful action on the natural nose, be brought under one side
Iof the diaphragm, you perceive that a very strong action of the needle is

immediately produced. The experiment which have selected is one
which shows the result easily, rapidly, and in a very marked manner;

Ibut should not think it a bold assertion to declare, that with a little
Itrouble and patience could exhibit voltaic effects, although perhaps to
a less marked extent, with every other odoriferous body.

      When an animal tastes, the matter which contains the savour comes

Iin immediate contact with the tongue, and is there probably absorbed.
need hardly state that the essentials for sensation, blood and nerve,
are abundantly supplied to that organ. With respect to physical con-

Itrivances analogical with the tongue, it is very easy to show voltaic

force excited by savours ; and have here a Y-shaped tube, containing
a solution of pel-nitrate of iron, and two platinum poles, which exhibit

Iby themselves no signs of electric action. As soon, however, as drop
a little infusion of meat into one side of the tube, you will instantly
perceive that the galvanometer shows signs of action. There is no
mystery about the meat, as sugar, or in fact any other savour, would
have had a similar property in a greater or less degree. The direct
examination of the tongue in the living animal affords unsatisfactory
results, inasmuch as secretions in the mouth are very apt to give wrong

Iresults a circumstance which should be veiy carefully guarded against.
      The last organ of sensation to which have to beg your attention is
the skin. Now, by the ordinary sensor nerves, we derive two sets of
impressions of somewhat different characters for instance, we are enabled
to judge of impressions upon the body by either heat or force, or what
264  APPENDIX.  [No. XVII.

may be termed Ccenaisthenics. "We are also enabled to judge of the
changes taking place within our own body, which estimation may be

Imore properly called Somaisthenics. By Somaisthenics we are enabled

to estimate the slightest muscular motion, and, in fact, cannot move
my finger or my arm to even the slightest extent without having a
perfectly distinct idea of the amount of motion produced.

       The skin is acted upon by variations of temperature and force :
hence we have to inquire how far heat and force can be employed to

Iset in motion the voltaic force. In experimenting upon the variations

of temperature, found a large series of thermo-voltaic circuits, which,
curiously enough, are analogical to photo-voltaic circuits, inasmuch as

Iheat, at various times, determines both negative and positive circuits in the

same manner as light. have here a negative thermo-voltaic circuit. The
apparatus, as you perceive, consists of a Y-tube, containing sulphate of

Icopper. Into each side of the tube a copper wire is placed, and you

perceive that the moment apply the heat of a spirit-lamp to one side

the galvanometer is very strongly deflected, the heated side becoming the

Inegative pole.
       When force acts upon the skin, presume the blood-corpuscle is pre-
vented from coming in contact with the termination of the nerve-fibre ;

Iand will beg you to bear this supposition in mind, as in a later part of
Ithis lecture shall demonstrate to you, that if this supposition be correct,

a voltaic circuit must be generated. My observations upon heat and
force simply indicate that a thermo- or dynamo-voltaic circuit is an
ordinary voltaic or physical phenomenon; but that by no means proves
that in the living body the mechanism of feeling is voltaic. This, however,
is an experiment easily shown, for we have but to introduce our electro-
voltaic test into the cutaneous textures, when a powerful deflection of the

galvanometer occurs whenever we pinch or otherwise irritate the skin. We
thus find that the mechanism of all the sensations is voltaic, and, according

to the laws of the voltaic test, the needle nearest the negative pole becomes

Ipositive ; that nearest the positive pole, negative. From direct experiment
   should therefore infer, that the organs of sensation all constitute the
positive pole of the peripheral battery. These inferences, however, must

Ialways be taken with a proper allowance for the complex character of the

voltaic circuits in the body, or rather, would say, for the complex

materials of which the circuit is composed.

      Sensations are received by a certain definite number of sensor nerves,
which constitute the only means we possess of obtaining a knowledge of
the external world. The sensor nerves pass to the brain, and then come
in contact with a highly vascular tissue, called the grey matter of the

Ibrain ; and invite your attention to the very exquisite injections which
I have made of that tissue, by means of the solution of carmine, and

which will be exhibited under the microscope in the library after the

lecture.

     Inasmuch as the sensor nerves come in contact with blood-vessels, it
follows from voltaic laws, that a voltaic battery exists in the brain, which

is opposed to that in the body, and by which the electro-biological circuit

is completed. At this point we leave the regions of direct experiment,

and we must deduce the mechanism of the central batteiy according to

voltaic laws on the one hand, and the properties of the mind on the other.
No. XVII.]             APPENDIX.                                      265

    I infer that the sensations are simply repeated in the brain, nerve for
Inerve, action for action, and this first battery term the sensation or

aisthenic battery ; the second pole of this battery is probably connected

Iwith the corresponding fibre of the opposite side, by what anatomists call

a commissure, and which have illustrated on the table by a voltaic

arrangement.

    IWe have represented to our minds, not only simple sensations, but '

also combined impressions : thus, whilst am looking at all the parts of
this theatre, one impression namely, that of a theatre is brought before
my mind. There is no difficulty in obtaining this result by voltaic means ;

I Iand the mechanism by which believe it to be accomplished have termed

the syndramic or combination battery. Thus, if we have three primitive
nervous fibrils, A,B, C, they may be thus combined, AB, AC, SC, ABC.
IThe diagram behind me illustrates this mode of combination ; and here,

upon the table, have the voltaic arrangement itself, and you cannot fail
to observe that these wires, even on this very limited scale, begin to look
like the interlacing which we observe in the brain.

    If we divide any* space into a certain number of squares, and give to

each square a certain name or figure, it will be apparent, that by simply
giving the names of the squares filled up with black, the word, or name, or
Isymbol, would at once be accurately described.
                                                 have divided this piece
Iof card into certain squares, and if read you a certain combination of
numbers, it would appear, at first, to give no definite idea ; but if you
examine carefully, you will find that this combination of numbers brings

Iout the word LIFE. This word, find, has been very unfortunately chosen,
Ibut in reality only selected the word in illustration of the principle of
combination, because it only consisted of four letters, and because each
letter was so formed that it very perfectly filled up square spaces.
Ladies constantly in practice take advantage of this principle in their
patterns of worsted work ; and it would be possible so to describe a
picture, up to the very limit of our powers of sensation, that it might,

from the description alone, be repeated in any country, and yet be a

Iperfect facsimile.                                                   ^i..
dwell thus long upon the syndramic or combination battery,
because, in all probability, it constitutes a very large part of the brain.
When we consider the large number of ultimate fibres in each organ of

Isensation, do not think that we have reason to suppose every possible
Icombination ensues ; and even with regard to ordinary sentient nerves,
think that such a universal combination would be embarrassing to the

mind, and that the combination probably would only extend to the nerves

of each separate region of the body. It is quite certain that we always

know the specific sense by which impressions are learnt that is to say,

that we know whether an idea has been derived from the eye, nose, mouth,

or other organ of sensation. This resolves itself into one idea for a vast

Inumber of sensations, and is a state which can very easily be imitated by
voltaic contrivances.  have upon the table a voltaic arrangement of this

character, in which but one action is produced from one or all the
combinations which exist in the syndramic battery. In some cases, ideas

Ido not arise alone from action on one sense, but on two or more senses at

one time a combination which infer to occur in the syndramic-noemic
battery ; and lastly, it is necessary to assume that all these last combina-
266                   APPENDIX.                       [No. XVII.

tions of each specific sense are connected together into one total in the
pneuma-noemic battery, from the opposed pole of which the dynamic or

motor nerves spring.
      The situation of this important battery is somewhere in the base of

Ithe brain ; and believe that in applying the electro-voltaic test in this
Isituation, have obtained deflection of the galvanometer. Let me, how-
Iever, speak .with the utmost caution upon this point ; for although have

tried the experiment over and over again, the animal is almost invariably
destroyed, and in fact by the electro-biological maps * which are suspended
upon the wall, you will at once perceive that an action here influences

every nerve in the body, and thus may very readily destroy vitality.

     Now, what are the qualities of this last battery, which has but one
impression for all the sensations of the body ? We find that it represents

totality, and cannot be limited. It has therefore the properties of infinity,

and gives to man his most exalted ideas. The ideas of soul, Gk>d, eternity,

immortality, are obtainable from this battery, acting in conjunction with
I Ithe lower batteries which have already described.
                                                      regret exceedingly
Ithat the hour allotted for this lecture has now been so far spent, that
am unable fully to consider the properties of the mind deducible from

Ithe theoretical structure which have developed upon voltaic laws ; but,
Iunder the circumstances, feel bound to pass on to matters which can be
elucidated by direct experiment.

     When the voltaic force is carried by the sensor nerves to the brain,
it there causes some change of matter, by which polarity is ever after
determined. This phenomenon is a physical result of the most ordinary

Ikind ; for have here a solution of argento-cyanide of potassium, with two
Icopper poles, and before the lecture passed a voltaic circuit from one
Ipole to the second, by which have effected a change of matter, and silver
Ihas been precipitated on one side. You will now see that, immediately
connect the two poles with the galvanometer, a strong deflection will

Iensue, and, to use a metaphorical phrase, the solution has remembered

what did to it. This expeiiment, which is but a sample of a class, must
only be regarded as analogical, and is only valuable to show that voltaic
electricity may produce effects which will ever after be appai-ent.
     In the arrangement of the nerves of the body, every sensor nerve is

opposed to every motor nerve, and may excite it to action under certain

I Icircumstances. Now before consider this subject in detail, may state

that the voltaic circuit, when it has the choice of two or more roads,

invariably takes the easiest route, to the exclusion of all the rest. Here is

an arrangement in which one of my platinized silver batteries is connected

with two precipitating troughs, having the same distance to travel in both

cases, but one is charged with sulphate of copper, the other with sulphate
of zinc ; and yet with this trifling difference the entire current has passed

through the sulphate of copper, to the exclusion of the sulphate of zinc,

because copper was more easily reducible than zinc, and therefore offered

Ia somewhat easier passage to the voltaic force.

      Upon examining the arrangement, find that the experiment has been

     * Copies of the maps in Mr. Smee's ' Elements of Electro-Biology ' and
The Mind of Man.'
No. XVII.]                     APPENDIX.                     267

Itried under the most trying circumstances, as observe that the positive

pole, in the sulphate of copper, is almost entirely dissolved. Notwith-

Istanding, however, this, the law which have developed and described in
I Imy ' Electro-Metallurgy,' still holds good, though must confess that
should not have risked the demonstration of this extreme application of

the law, which fortunately, by accident, has brought the matter more

strikingly under your notice.

From this law, we learn that the voltaic circuit would be completed

through the nearest motor nerve, when any sensation was excited, unless
obstacles were presented to its passage in that direction, or any circum-

stances favourable to its passage through any other motor nerve were
afforded in some more distant part of the Electro-Biological circuit, when

even the furthest motor nerve might be excited to action.
      The action of every animal is determined, then, not only by the

impression received at the moment, but by every other event which it has

registered or remembered from the first moment of its life.
The motor nerves, by which the circuit is completed in the body, are
distributed, in man, to the muscles; in other creatures to the electric

organs ; in others, to light-generating structures. The electric battery of
fishes, as it is technically called, is composed of an enormous number

Iof minute cells, supplied with blood-vessels. The nervous force, which
have already shown to be voltaic, acts at right angles to the direction of

the cells, and there produces some change of matter which instantly

Icauses a powerful voltaic current.
          have here a glass vessel, containing a solution of ferrocyanate of
potash, into the interior of which is placed a porous cell, containing a

Isimilar solution; a platinum pole is inserted into both vessels, for the

purpose of connection with the galvanometer. Now, if pass a voltaic
current from the outside to the inside (zs), no change of matter takes
place in one part, the prussiate of potash remains the same; in the
other it is converted into the red prussiate. From this change one side

becomes strongly positive to the other, and you perceive that so powerful

a current has been generated, that the needle completely swings round
Ithe instant connection is made with the galvanometer.
                                                             have only
shown this experiment upon one cell; but it must be manifest to you,
that as every cell adds a certain amount of force, it simply requires a

number to make a battery as powerful as that of an electric eel. The

Iartificial electric eel have myself constructed, in a vast variety of
Iways, which have not now time to consider.
The muscular substance is ultimately divisible into primitive fibrils,
which consist of a sheath, called the sarcolemma, containing, in the
interior, a peculiar matter, which, during the act of contraction, becomes
wider and shorter ; and this contraction is caused by a change of matter,
produced by the voltaic force, carried through the motor nerves.

    I have here a strong piece of gut to imitate the sarcolemma, and into
Ithe interior of this have placed fluid and pieces of platinized silver.
Upon the outer side of this gut is placed a strong piece of amalgamated
zinc, so that the moment connection is made between the zinc and silver,

gas is evolved, which renders the bladder wider and shorter, and thus
moves this bar of wood over a space of three or four feet.
The conditions of the natural muscle and artificial muscle are per-
268  APPENDIX.  [No. XVII.

fectly analogical. Both possess a power only limited by the strength of

the materials. In both cases, the power acts over the short end of the
lever, and therefore at a mechanical disadvantage. In both cases it is a

Igreat power moving over a small space. I, however, can move my natural

muscles much quicker than can my artificial muscle ; but you must
please to remember that my organs are not competent to construct a
machine having such fine tubes as we find in the ultimate muscular
fibrils ; and for want of this delicacy of construction we sacrifice the
speed and rapidity of action observable in the perfection of Nature's

operations.
       Anxious to lay before you the leading experiments and deductions of

Ithis truly delightful subject, have delivered this lecture with the utmost
Ipossible rapidity, and yet see around me multitudes of experiments which
I Ifear that shall have no time to explain, as the hour has already passed.
IBy your applause, understand that you wish me to proceed ; but as some
Iof my audience live at considerable distances, will only detain you by

calling your attention very briefly to a few other points. In the first

place, we find that man consists of a double voltaic circuit, and therefore
we ought to consider the nature of the changes taking place in that voltaic
circuit. Now, there are strong reasons to suppose that hydrogen and
carbon act as the positive pole, and become changed in that capacity into

water and carbonic acid. It would only require one thirty-second the

I Iquantity of these materials to produce any result that it would of zinc ;

and can assure you, that many a time have sought diligently and care-

Ifully for a voltaic circuit which should be efficiently excited by carbon or

coke as a positive element ; and can promise to the fortunate discoverer
of such a combination the delight of being able to supersede the steam-
engine, and the pleasure of successfully generating the voltaic light.

Then, and not till then, will voltaic batteries be employed to the exclusion

of every other means of generating force. Although up to the present

I Itime have not been able to use coke or carbon for a positive pole, have

succeeded in making a variety of circuits, in which substances composed
of carbon and hydrogen form powerful voltaic circuits ; for instance,

sugar and nitric acid, oxalic acid and chloride of gold, ferrocyanate of
potash and nitric acid, constitute examples of this class of batteries.

      The voltaic circuit in animals is exactly balanced, and does not act
without some impression to set in motion the electric current. The
arterial or oxygenized corpuscles are admirably adapted for this purpose,

Iand have here an experiment which will illustrate their functions in a
Ivery beautiful manner. The glass vessel which hold in my hand contains

a solution of common salt, and two iron poles are inserted into it. Now

Iin this state everything is balanced, and no voltaic force is exhibited. If

take an artificial corpuscle made of animal membrane, containing a little
pernitrate of iron, and bring it in contact with one of the iron poles,
a very powerful deflection of the galvanometer ensues, indicating the
presence of a current. When, however, one corpuscle is placed against
each plate of iron, the effect is again balanced, and no voltaic circuit arises.
These experiments well indicate the functions of the blood-corpuscle in the
living body ; for when one is in contact with each end of the nerve-fibre,
no current can take place, but the moment one is removed, or acted upon
by heat, light, or other forces, a strong voltaic battery is formed.
No. XVII.A.]           APPENDIX.                                          269

I would gladly have occupied your attention with a few remarks
upon the relations of electricity to organic or cell-life. By a modifi-
cation of the aggregation of cells, a plant produces leaves, stalks, flowers,

or roots, which every gardener knows is, to a certain extent, as much

Iunder human control as digging, raking, or hoeing. During the pre-

valence of the potato malady, subjected the plant to every form of
electricity, and in every possible manner, over long periods, without

obtaining any result.

    IThere is, however, one remarkable circumstance to be noticed with

regard to the relation of electricity to cell-life, for have found that
electric currents stop the circulation of the blood, as suddenly as a stop
does a watch when put down ; and this entire stoppage of the circulation

extends not only to the blood-corpuscle, but also to the lymph-corpuscle
which
        creeps so  slowly along the side of the vessel.  life,  we  find  that  all
    If   we take   a review of the functions of animal

sensations, the registration of impressions, thought, action, and other
phenomena of animal life, are voltaic effects, and solely obedient to

physical laws : and to the idea of the performance of these functions we
assign the idea of vitality. Life, therefore, is one word used to signify a

number of changes. It is no independent reality apart from the matter
which exhibits these phenomena. Neither is it an imponderable attached
to matter ; nor is it an all-pervading ether, or anima mundi, as some
philosophei's would have us suppose. Life, mind, memory, reason, thought,

come from organization, are purely physical phenomena, and cease at death.

Man, however, is immortal. Man, at all times and in all regions, has
believed in his immortality. Now that which is mortal can have no

relation with that which gives to man his immortality. That which is

infinite must not be limited ; time must not be confounded with eternity,
matter with space, the body with the soul, nor material actions with God.

commEalencdtsrou-bs iotologbye,lievteh,en",thaletadthse  us no less to infer, than religion
                                                         dead shall be raised incorruptible, and

we shall be changed."

                                       No. XVII.A.

PRINCIPLES OF THE HUMAN MIND DEDUCED FROM
     PHYSICAL LAWS ; BEING A SEQUEL TO ELEMENTS OF ELECTRO-

      BIOLOGY. By ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S.

                                                  PREFACE.
       SOME years since, M. Roret, the distinguished French publisher, did
me the honour of causing to be made a translation into the French lan-
guage of my ' Elements of Electro-Metallurgy,' in which it met with as
signal a success as the original edition in this country.
      As soon as M. Roret received my work on Electro-Biology, he also
caused it to be immediately translated, and kindly wrote to me to know

Iwhether desired to make any additions to the English text.
    IAfter a careful consideration, determined to write a short epitome

of the Principles of the Human Mind, deduced from Electro-Biology, to
form an Appendix to that work.
270  APPENDIX.  [No. XVII.A.

    IBut, after the remarkable kindness with which the work has been

received in this country by my friends and the public, feel that it would
be a want of courtesy, if not an act of ingratitude, to allow further
remarks upon the same subject, however unimportant they may be, to

Iappear in a foreign country before they were issued in the English language.
          apprehend that the time is fast approaching, when no other
system of mental science will be acknowledged but that which is based

upon physical laws and the structure of the brain ; and if my researches

Ishall be found hereafter to have contributed to the development of true

philosophy, shall indeed feel more than amply rewarded for the hours of
anxious but delightful labour spent in its development.

       7, FlNSBTJBY ClBCFS,
           Sept. 18th, 1849.

                                Knowledge of the external World.

      1. Our ideas of the external world arise, primarily, from an action
upon the ultimate nervous fibres of the organs of sensation, by the specific
stimulus competent to excite each organ of sensation respectively.

      2. Each primitive nervous fibril is called a unit; the repetition of

units, Number.
      3. That which is competent to act upon these nervous fibrils is called

Matter.

      4. Whenever matter undergoes any change which renders it appre-
ciable to our senses, it is said to evince Force.

      5. The definite combination of nervous fibres excited to action, deter-
mines the character of the idea presented to the mind, such as form, posi-
tion, magnitude.

      6. Each combination may be expressed by a word or cypher, and
forms a definite image. The use of words is called Language.

       7. The sum total of all the possible combinations of the ultimate
nervous fibrils, excited to action, comprises all the possible images which
can be represented to the mind.

      8. Inasmuch as the possible combination of all the nervous fibrils is
immensely numerous, so are the images which may be reflected in the
mind immensely numerous.

                                                                 Senses.

      9. An idea is represented to the mind, when any one or more of the
filaments of either specific organ of sensation is excited without reference
to the definite image thereby produced.

      10. This solitary idea, derived from the filaments of the eye, is termed
Vision ; of the ear, Hearing ; of the nose, Smelling ; of the palate, Tasting ;
of the skin, Feeling ; and probably, from the nerves communicating the
changes occurring in our own body, Personality.

                                        Combination of Senses.

      11. The perfect knowledge of any object is obtained by impressions
received by the sum of the organs of sensation.

      12. But as matter may exist without exciting all the organs of sensa-
tion at one time, we determine the combination of senses which has
concurred to give us the knowledge of any external object.
No. XVII.A.]  APPENDIX.  271

                                                   Infinity.

      13. An idea is represented from the excitement of one or all the
nervous fibrils of any organ of sensation indiscriminately. This idea is
infinite, inasmuch as it is indivisible, incapable of addition and represents
totality.*

                                                            Time.

      14. Our knowledge of the external world at any given period is the
sum total of the images from all our senses.

       15. These images represented to the mind are perpetually changing.
       16. When images change, one remains ; the other changes perhaps
several times before the first changes. The relation of these changes to
each other is termed the time of their occurrence ; that which changes the
least frequently is said to be of the longest duration.

                                                                 Cause.

     17. In the change of images, when one specific image never appears

without a similar antecedent, and the matter in the external world which
gave rise to the first image set in motion the second the antecedent
image is said to cause the second image.

      18. The mind finds great difficulty in distinguishing between con-
comitance and cause, because the matter which produces an antecedent
image may not set in motion the matter which produced the second image.

                                       Pleasure and Pain.

      19. When images of the external world are produced with a certain
intensity, the idea of Pleasure is excited ; when with a greater intensity,
the idea of Pain.-f

      20. The transition from Pleasure to Pain being sudden, not gradual,
it follows that the nature of the action on the brain, and consequently of
the ideas, is different.

                                                         Memory.

      21. An image once formed in the brain produces an indelible impres-
sion, and may at any future time recur. This property is called Memory.

                                                          Consciousness.

      22. When an image is produced by an action upon the external senses,
the actions on the organs of sense concur with the actions in the brain ;
and the image is then a Reality.

      23. When an image occurs to the mind without a corresponding

simultaneous action of the body, it is called a Thought.

      24. The power to distinguish between a thought and a reality is

called Consciousness.

      * Infinity is sometimes confounded with its hyperbolical use in the sense of

endless number.

     f Every action of our lives is either pleasurable or painful ; and thus we

perceive how vastly the former state preponderates over the latter.
272  APPENDIX.  [No. XVII. A.

                                                 Instinctive Ideas.

      25. Several ideas must necessarily co-exist, giving rise to compound
ideas always existing in the brain : thus personality and infinity give us
the idea of the Soul ; pleasure and infinity, of Good ; pain and infinity, of
Evil ; cause and infinity, of God ; time and infinity, of Eternity ; infinity,
pleasure and time, of Heaven ; infinity, pain and time, of Hell.*

      26. These instinctive ideas are not produced by the immediate action
of external influences, but have their origin in the construction of the
brain, or organ of thought.

      27. Instinctive ideas belong to the higher class of mental images ; and
there is no reason to suppose that a more simple idea is implanted in the

human species. In the lower animals, however, it is apparent that either

other images exist, which guide the creatures to perform their operations
   as the bird to build the nest, the bee the honeycomb; or that the

nervous system is so constructed, that the creature is led to perform

specific acts under some definite excitement.

                                                      Reflection.

      28. When images already implanted in the brain, which possess many
points in common, continually reappear, the party is said to be reflecting.

      29. During reflection, the influences of the external world to produce
new images are entirely, or to a great part, neglected.

      30. By reflection, ideas may be combined so as to form general laws.
      31. By reflection, general laws may be applied to specific instances, or
images may be analysed into their component parts.

                                                      Judgment.

      32. When an idea is represented to the mind, it either accords or
discords with other ideas previously received, or with general laws resulting
therefrom, or with the moral law. The determination between this con-
cordance or discordance is called Judgment.

                                                    Imagination.

      33. Man has the power of uniting two or more antecedent images, or
the parts of two or more antecedent images. By this power, a totally new
image is formed, and hence it is called Imagination.

      34. Observation is the basis of fancy ; and the novelist is fruitf ul only
in proportion as he stores his mind with natural images.

                                                         Action.

      35. Man acts by electricity, which is set in motion through the
muscular structures, whereby contraction ensues, and parts of the body
are moved.

      36. Action may be produced by the immediate influence of the

      * As these instinctive ideas are simply thoughts, and cannot be proved by
our external senses, the mind may be led at times to deny the reality of their
existence. Revelation, however, declares their truth, and thus compensates for
the natural weakness of man.
No. XVII.A.]  APPENDIX.  273

external agents upon the body, which give rise to a new image in the
brain; and action may also be produced by the recurrence of a former
image.

                                                   Specific Action.

      37. The mind is one and indivisible ; and thus, the particular muscular
movement which the electrical force determines is not only regulated by
an immediate image, but by every other image which has at any former
time been implanted in the brain.

      38. Pleasure and pain regulate all actions : hence the particular move-
ment which is determined arises from the pleasurable or painful character
of all former images ; as animals, as well as human beings, seek those
actions which are likely to be pleasurable, and eschew those which are
likely to be painful.

      39. But the action determined in any particular instance may be
painful for the sake of obtaining greater pleasure at future periods ; and
the idea of obtaining infinite pleasure may allow of the most intense

immediate pain.

                                                   Hope and Fear.

      40. The idea of future pleasure is called Hope of future pain, Fear.
The government of mankind is conducted by exciting Hope and Fear.

                                                          Desire.

      41. When a tendency to act exists, it is called Desire , and always
exists, more or less, when a being is in good health, and in a state free
from fatigue.

                                                  Virtue and Vice.

     42. All actions in the higher generalizations would give the idea

either of infinite pleasure or of infinite pain. Actions which concur with
those which lead to infinite pleasure are called Virtuous ; and those which
lead to infinite pain are called Vicious.

                                                Moral Law.
      43. The moral law, being infinite, is competent to control all actions.

It is therefore important that it should be frequently and strongly

impressed upon the human mind.

                                                         Volition.
      44. The resultant of the force of an immediate stimulus and of all
former ideas implanted in the brain is termed Volition.

                                                     Free Agency.

     45. A man is born a fi-ee agent ; but after images are once implanted,

he is compelled to act from the ideas existing in his brain. Hence, could
we but tell the exact ideas which any human being possessed, it would be
practicable to foretell his line of action under any defined circumstance.
274  APPENDIX.                [No. XVII.A.

     CERTAIN SPECIFIC IDEAS.

                                                     Life.

     46. The term Life is assigned to the idea which the miud forms of the
capacity of an organized being to perform its functions.

                                                          Death.

      47. The term Death is assigned to the idea which the mind receives of
an organized being incompetent to perform the vital actions.

                                                    Mind.

      48. The term Mind is assigned to the general idea of any action of the
brain, which is a part of the organization of man. An idea is the term
assigned to any specific action in the brain.

                                                    Organization.

      49. Organization is the term assigned to the construction of a being
to adapt it to perform certain functions.

                                               Future State.
      50. The mind has constantly represented to it the idea of a personality
which will exist infinitely.
      51. Whilst, however, the idea exists, we have no power to learn the
properties of infinity ; and hence we cannot define the nature of the state
in which we shall live hereafter.

                                  DISEASED STATES OF MIND.

                                               Insane Ideas.

      52. Whenever an idea appears in the brain, which is neither instinc-
tive nor is due to external causes, nor is deduced by the ordinary operation
of the brain, it is said to be an Insane Idea.

      53. When this idea is continuously the same, the party is said to have

a Monomania.
      54. When various images appear and vanish indiscriminately, the state

is called Incoherence ; and when this state is combined with more or less
unconsciousness, it is termed Delirium.

      55. The danger of insane ideas depends upon the distinctness with
which the idea is impressed upon the brain; for it will determine the
party to act in proportion to the power with which it is impressed.

      56. To the violent actions arising from strongly implanted diseased
ideas, the term MANIA is given; and the violence of the Mania is pro-
portionate to the power of the delusion. To the individual it is an
exaltation of pleasure.

      57. When, from the delusion, the patient is in continual fear, he is
said to be melancholy ; and it is probably, to the individual, an exaltation
of pain.

      58. When a fixed insane idea exists in. the mind, the party cannot be
No. XVII.A.]              APPENDIX.                                       275

said to be partially deluded; for,      inasmuch  as the mind is one and indi-
visible, it will control all actions.*
     59. A
            strong moral  impression may counteract an insane    image,   as a
party may   be kept from   doing wrong, by feeling assured that           lead
to present                                                       it will
            or future inconvenience to himself.

                      DEFECTIVE STATE OF MIND.

                          Idiotcy.

it     60. When the structure of the brain is     congenitally   defective, so that
    cannot perform all its normal actions, the    party is said  to be an idiot.

                                             Loss of Memory.
      61. Sometimes the power of memory is intermittent, or is totally lost,
as after the frequent recurrence of epileptic fits.

                                                   Fit*.
    62. Any interval of unconsciousness, except sleep, is called a Fit.

                                                   Fatuity.
      63. When from loss of memory, or want of power in the brain, the
functions of reflection or judgment are not perfectly performed, the
individual is said to be fatuous.

       64. Sometimes               Loss of Sensation.
world is diminished   the power of receiving impressions from the external
                      or lost, as in blindness, deafness, &c.

                          Paralysis.

    65. When parts of the body do not move by volition, they are said to

be paralysed.

                          Senile Imbecility.

    66. In old age the brain loses its power to receive new images, to-

restore bygone impressions, to connect different images, or to apply
general laws to specific instances. That which ennobles the man has

passed away ; the outward form remains, but the inward structure has lost
its power to act. Childhood again ensues not to acquire new ideas, but

to forget those before implanted. All that is beautiful or desirable in this

world has passed away the brain has lost its power the mind ceases the

very existence of the man is unknown to himself, till death gives rise to a
new life, and discloses that new and glorious state in which our organiza-

tion teaches us that man will be immaterial and immortal.

                              . Varieties of Races.

      67. As individuals differ in their organization, it follows that they
differ in their capacity to perform various acts ; and we may presume that

       * As a matter of jurisprudence, it has been held by the Lord Chancellors, in
the House of Lords, that the mind cannot be said to be partially deluded r
inasmuch as it is one and indivisible.

                                                                                                          T2
276  APPENDIX.  [No. XVIII.

the mind, being one of the functions of the body, is of varying power in
different individuals.

      68. The observations which apply to different individuals, apply with

greater force to different races.

                                  No. XVIII.

ON THE PRODUCTION OF CHOLERA BY INSUFFICIENT
     DRAINAGE. WITH REMARKS ON THE HYPOTHESIS OF AN

      ALTERED ELECTRICAL STATE OP THE ATMOSPHERE. By ALFRED

      SMEE, F.R.S., Surgeon to the Bank of England, &c. (From the
       'Lancet,' September 1st, 1849.)

WHEN pestilence passes over the land, and consigns to a premature grave
alike the old and the young, it behoves each in his respective depart-
ment to endeavour to trace out the proximate cause, and strive to dis-
cover some antidote to so direful a calamity.

       The experience of all the world proves that the lowest districts, the
banks of rivers, and natural watercourses are the situations in which the
malady chiefly resides. Two physical hypotheses may be framed upon this
fact : firstly, that the cholera is caused by a poison which gravitates to
those situations ; secondly, that in those situations poison is generated.

     If, however, cholera be produced by a heavy poison subsiding from

the atmosphere to low situations, we should have cholera exhibiting itself
in all low districts, and the weight of the air would be absolutely greater
in such localities. This fact has not been proved, otherwise the Board of
Health could always determine, by weighing the atmosphere, where cholera
was likely to appear, and, when existing, when it was likely to depart.
The hypothesis of a heavy poison being the cause of cholera is a generaliza-
tion embracing many facts, but not based upon any direct proof.

     In low situations, however, drainage is manifestly more or less imper-

fect. The effete materials of the human frame are not quickly removed
from the sphere of human residences, and thus can act more detrimentally
than in higher and drier localities. Nothing is more hurtful to animal
life than the effete matter of the same animal, and disease more or less
serious is sure to occur when any creature is exposed to the influence of
the worn-out materials of its own frame.

      Nature has provided that ordinarily the most rapid diffusion of
gaseous emanations should take place throughout the atmosphere ; and
with such force does this diffusion occur, that Professor Graham has
beautifully observed, that it would be as easy to stop the mountain tor-
rent as to impede the equable diffusion of different gases.

      Every person must have observed that sometimes this diffusion is
quicker than at others, and that the same source will sometimes exhale
the most pestiferous stench, whilst at others no offensive odour will be
discoverable. This difference is clearly attributable to the exhalation
passing more rapidly into the atmosphere at one time than another.

      Now all cholera cases appear in situations where the victims have
No. XVIII.]                  APPENDIX.                              277

been exposed to   the  exhalations of drains,   cesspools, &c., or  to the equally
                  of   the lungs and skin of   other individuals.     Hence these
hurtful products

facts may be expressed hypothetically, by assuming that from some cause
the diffusive power of the atmosphere is at the present time below the
average ; and hence, wherever noxious exhalations exist, there the disease
is manifested according to the susceptibility of the unfortunate individuals
exposed to their influence.
    IThe non-diffusive hypothesis meets eveiy case with which
                                                                    am
acquainted in this great metropolis; for, from having carefully studied
Ithe official facts communicated by the Registrar-General, together with
other observations,    have been surprised how constantly cholera has

appeared upon the lines of the great sewers.
    The Fleet ditch, which is almost a river in the magnitude and length
Iof its course, has furnished abundance of cases, and its immediate neigh-

bourhood many more, from causes which shall presently detail. This
sewer runs its course along the lowest
                                        ground between two hills, Ludgate
Hill on the one hand, Fleet Street on    the other. When the sun shines

upon the hills, the air becomes warmer and specifically lighter, and hence,
according to immutable physical laws, a circulation of air laden with the
hurtful gases is produced in a direction from the river to these streets, and
with a magnitude of current directly proportionate to the imperfection of
the trappings of the sewers. This life- destroying blast is perceptible to
the olfactory organs of the most indiscriminating person.
    The cholera does not necessarily follow water, because no case has
occurred along the New River, which is a pure, pellucid stream, running
at a considerable altitude along the hills, and which therefore does not

Iimbibe the drainage in the neighbourhood. At Highbury Yale a foul

ditch runs, and there, am informed, the malady has occurred. From
Ithese facts we learn that water without a sewer is harmless.
      The non-diffusive theory, which submit is competent to account for
the fact of cholera, shows that the public have incurred a grave responsi-
bility for not having removed effectually the excrementitious matter from
London, as it points out that every death from cholera is a homicide which

might by proper management have been prevented.

    The most indifferent person must have observed that noxious vapours
do not diffuse with equal rapidity at different times, and a question

naturally arises, how far electricity may be supposed to influence that
state. When particles of matter are electrified similarly, they repel each
other ; when dissimilarly, they are mutually attracted. As far as gases are

Iconcerned, do not know of any experiments which bear upon the matter ;
Iand so far as my own attempts have at present gone, do not feel at
present satisfied with the results. During the prevalence of cholera the

electrical state of the atmosphere has been neutral ; and when thunder-

storms have occurred, the electrical disturbances have only been manifested

for a few hours. This neutral state is probably most favourable for the

non-diffusion of gases.* It is probable this non-diffusive state does not

      *  Connected with this subject, we must not   forget the presence of ozone
    the                It has the properties of a  highly-oxygenated substance,
in       atmosphere.
and hence would enter into combination with mephitic bodies. This curious

substance is produced whenever electricity is passing through water or aqueous
vapour, and perhaps, identical with the peroxide of hydrogen.
             is,
278  APPENDIX.  [No. XVIII.

altogether depend upon electrical conditions, as we have neutral electricity
for days together when cholera does not appear.

      The absence of diffusive power may not be for all gases equally ; and,

if subsequent experiment confirm this idea, a cause for each specific epi-

demic may be ultimately ascertained by the medical practitioner having

Iproper recourse to chemistry and natural philosophy.

      Within the last month have had many inquiries upon the possibility
of the disease being due to the direct action of electrical states upon the

Ihuman frame. Upon this matter can only say that, having kept small
Ianimals under electric tension for weeks together, never could observe
Iany very appreciable effect ; and do not believe myself that electricity in

any form could give rise to cholera. With respect to the statements

Iwhich have appeared in the papers, of the non-action of an electrical

machine, under French auspices, when the cholera raged, may state that

it is contrary to my own experience, and so opposed to physical laws that
it partakes rather of the romantic than the real.

      With respect to the effect of electricity as a remedial agent for
cholera, there are not sufficient physiological reasons for supposing that
in any form it can be applied with great success ; yet, as a stimulus,
Dr. Peacock has employed it usefully, and, by using the intermittent cur-
rent of the electro-magnetic or magneto-electric machine, the asthenic

Iand dynamic pole of the great peripheral battery may be excited to action,

and, according to the experiments which have elsewhere described, the

entire capillary system of the surface and extremities of the body would be
stimulated, and the blood thereby drawn off from the interior. There
would be no difficulty in keeping a cholera patient under electrical tension,
by simply placing the legs of the bed on blocks of glass, and connecting

Ithe bed with the conductor of an electric machine ; but, upon physiological

grounds, do not apprehend that much benefit would arise in so severe a

Idisease as cholera.
         invite the attention of our profession to the non-diffusive theory, for
its universality or its incorrectness can only be proved by a multitude of

observers. At present, it appears to me to express the greatest number of
facts, and to be the most useful for practical application, as it declares

that cholera may be avoided by pure air, proper ventilation, and perfect

drainage.

      The practical man is never contented without inquiring into the best

mode of action. It is clear that in a few days we cannot alter our

gigantic sewage works, and therefore the best preventive which can be
adopted is to cause the flow of such a great abundance of clear water that
the poison may be retained in the sewers. Clear water contains oxygen
to combine with the noxious products, and it is found that, up to a certain
state, water takes from the atmosphere, gases to which it has an affinity,
instead of yielding them to it, to spread abroad the poison.

      The supply of water in London must in a great measure be procured
from the New River, though thousands of tons might probably be thi-own
into the sewers by employing the waste labour of workhouses and prisons
to pump water from such wells as already exist.
                                       APPENDIX.                                279

                                       No. XIX.

ON BINOCULAR PERSPECTIVE. From the Second Edition of
      ALFRED SMEE'S book, 'The Eye in Health and Disease,' and from

    other notes, &o. 1854.

I"!N the last edition of this book, stated that we know that it is
impossible for any painter to delineate a picture in the manner in which
Iwe see it with both eyes, because two eyes give us a view of three sides of
a cube, and he can paint but two.                     conceive it possible, that for objects
at moderate distances, painters may, in some cases, take a certain liberty
with perspective and depict the two perspectives ; but it certainly cannot
    at"teNmopttwedithwstiathndninegar
be                                     objects.
                                       the assertion
                                                      of the impossibility  of  delineating                                                                                       a

Ipicture as seen with two eyes, which was the correct opinion of the time,

certain abstract considerations, with which need not trouble my readers,
induced me to believe that such a delineation was more practicable than
I Iat first sight was supposed ; and after much thought and studious experi-

ment, trust that am enabled to submit the laws by which painters may
represent, to a great extent, objects as seen with both eyes, and conse-
                              natural beauty.
quen"tlIyninstaulldythinegir  the phenomena           of binocular  perspective, it must be

remembered that the two eyes, being placed at two inches and a half apart,
give a different perspective view ; and, as in nature the eyes are directed
to the same point, it follows that the same part of the same object must be

the same point of eight for the two perspectives.
      " The picture in a binocular perspective drawing really consists of

two drawings overlapping each other, the point of sight in both being

the same. By this overlapping, lights and shades, tones and the effect

of breadth, are produced, such as the eyes really observe in nature.

    "The following may be regarded as the leading rules or laws of
binocular perspective, which may be useful to the painter as a guide in
the production of the drawing, or as a test for the detection of error when
it has been made. Much judgment and skill are no doubt requisite for
the painter so to construct his picture that the effect of solidity may be

Isuggested to the mind rather than hardly delineated ; and, as far as can
judge, from the observation of paintings of some of our great artists, they
have, as an effort of genius, really depicted objects as seen with two eyes."
      For example, he found that " Paul Veronese most skilfully obtains the
effect of solidity by the suggestion of a line more or less broken to conceal
his artifice, outside the limbs of the figures which he has represented." My
father never entered a picture-gallery without testing the pictures by his
laws of binocular perspective ; and when he was at Rome in 1868, he made
some interesting notes of the pictures in the Vatican, in which he found that
the great masters produced in somewhat different manners the principles
otinhfebmGin.uoicduTolh'asurstp,heeirnrsepBeacistriav"cec,ai'saglrt'phaidoctuautgriehosn,thotehf eltraeiwnstisfoa"rnatnhueninsddaeemfifnieneidtweenrehesasluf-ntooknfneoewd;g"ne  to

                                                                                                                                                                                  ;"

                                                                                                                                                                                  in

Correggio's, "the edge                 is double ;" in Paul Veronese's, "the second line is
half pencilled in ;" in                Andrea Sacchi'e, " half-tone outside edge ;" in Bar-
280                                         APPENDIX.                               [No. XIX.

tolomeo's, " hairy       edge ; "   i"n  Caravaggio's,   "  shade over line, colour  ;  " in
Perugino's, " hard       outline         in Guercino's,  "  indeterminate outline,"
                                   ;                                                    &c.

     My father was greatly interested in this celebrated collection of
pictures in the Vatican, and spent considerable time over them. Unfor-
tunately the above notes, with the sketches attached to them, were con-
signed for care in the writing-case of my travelling bag, and have

remained there forgotten for several years. Lately, in thinking over
events in my dear father's life, the remembrance of his visit to the

Vatican and of these notes suddenly flashed across my mind. Had he

lived, he would probably have again brought forward his theories on
Binocular Perspective, with these notes fully set forth as illustrations.

      He gives eleven rules or laws on Binocular Perspective :
      " 1. The point of sight appears the same to both eyes as to one.
      " 2. Small objects of less width than the distance between the pupils
of the eyes, when placed in a plane before the point of sight, are increased
in width and rendered either wholly or in part transparent, according to

their distance from the eyes.
      " 3. Large objects, in a plane before the point of sight, are increased
in width, and their lateral edges become transparent and allow objects to

be  se"en4.  through     them.
              Objects    or parts
                                   of  objects    on either side    the  point  of  sight  are

increased in width, and the edges become transparent.
      " 5. Objects in a plane, behind the point of sight, are seen in two places,
but indistinctly, because they are out of focus, and because their images
fall upon the internal surface of the retina at a greater or less distance
from the point of distinct vision.
      " 6. Solid bodies or parts of solid bodies, appearing transparent,

modify the tints of objects seen through them.
      " 7. Bodies of a light colour throw a light veil over objects seen behind
them. Bodies of a darker colour throw a dark veil.
      " 8. Colours of different character, as yellow and blue, when super-

imposed according to the preceding law, produce a tint different from
either, and yet not the colour which would arise from their admixture.

     "9. In cases where objects or parts of objects are widened and

                                   rendered transparent, the breadth of the distinct
                                   or solid part is narrower than when viewed by

                                   one e"ye10a. loSnme.all objects placed some distance

                                   before the point of sight and near the eyes
                                   appear in two places, but one impression is

                                   gener"a1ll1y.  neglected.        becoming    transparent
                                                  Parts of objects

                                   have frequently much light reflected from them,

                                   and where the image is seen in two places some-

                                   times    the light is only reflected  from one   image.
                                         "  The annexed figure will       serve to   give an

                                   illustration of the interpenetration of objects
                                   when seen by two eyes, and will also explain the
             FlG - l6 -
                                   geometrical law on which it is founded. It will be
                                   seen that by two eyes we are enabled to see a

greater amount of the back object than would be discernible by one eye
No. XIX.}                                APPENDIX.                                         281

alone.    This amount          may  be   called X, and          the   quantity  denoted varies
directly   as the base              and   the line CD,         and   inversely
                              AB,                                               as the line BO.

By similar  triangles AB:BC::X:DC;                             therefore  X     =  AB x    PG
                                                                                       BC
    eq"uIantiosntuwdyhiincgh  gives the value of X in every
an                                                                   position.
                              these principles nothing has           more astonished
                                                                                      me   than

the fact of the colours which overlap to the two eyes not giving the com-

pound colour, which would result if they were mixed and seen by one eye.
In all those parts of a picture where colours overlap, much skill will have
to be exercised by the painter, as the appearance in nature is that of a
film or coloured gauze overlapping other colours, and the result is not the

ordinary compound colour.
      " One of the few artists who have seen Turner paint, stated to me that

in painting the near objects he lightly touched with his brush and then

placed his finger over it, whereby he produced a semi-transparent streak
instead of a line. This streak enabled the more distant objects to be seen
behind it, and thus the conditions of binocular perspective were in part

fulfilled.
      " Another curious phenomenon connected with binocular perspective
is observable in the case of a landscape viewed through a window, for in

that instance the vertical bars become either wholly or partially trans-

parent, and the objects behind them are seen with a shade over them.

The horizontal bars retain their solidity and obscure all the parts they

shade. This phenomenon occurs when the head remains in its ordinary
position ; but when the head is turned so that the eyes are one above the

other, the horizontal bars become transparent, and the vertical bars retain

their solidity. It is requisite for the observance of these effects that a

distant object should be the point of sight, and not the window bar.
      " According to the laws which have been detailed, we observe that
objects behind the point of sight are seen in two places, although indis-
tinctly, from being out of focus, and from being seen at the lateral part of
the retina. From these facts it is apparent that a painter should depict
the objects in the background of a neutral or tertiary tint and very indis-
tinct. In nature the object directly viewed is alone seen in perfection,

and he that would carefully study nature should contrive that his prin-
cipal subject should be the brightest in colour and most distinct in detail,
when it will stand forth in all its beauty.
    " The outline effects of binocular perspective may be readily obtained
by placing two candles at 2j
amining the shadows which                inches apart,  from         flame to flame,  and ex-
                                         are produced   upon         a white screen.
                                                                                       It will

then be seen that objects near the screen will have a light shade at each
lateral border. Small objects will, at a greater distance, appear double ;
and the double images being superimposed, a body different from either

will be produced. A finger held horizontally across the flames will have
the end prolonged by its shadow, but it will be observed that no change
Itakes place at the upper and lower edges. By this experiment only the

outline effect is produced; but cannot too highly recommend to the
paint"eAr stoashruulte,hitmheseilmf uapgewoitfh
                                                  two candles  and   study these effects.
                                                                two   places is not appreciated
                                                 an object in
entirely, because one object falling upon the margin of the retina is
scarcely visible. These considerations curiously bring before our mind
282                                            APPENDIX.                                [NO. xix.

the fact, that even the apparent imperfections in the construction of the
                                                                integrity of their functions.
parts"   of  our body   are  necessary         for the highest  binocular perspective were
              occurred   to  me that,
         It                                    if the laws of

correct, pictures might be obtained by photography which should repre-
sent the appearances observed with both eyes. The conditions required

for binocular sun-pictures are similar to those required for binocular
drawings or paintings. As it is requisite that there should be one point of
sight for the two perspective drawings, considerable nicety is required in
the production of binocular photographs, as the slightest deviation from
correctness produces doubleness or great distortion. To obtain a binocu-
lar picture of any body, the camera must be employed to take half the
impression, and then it must be moved in the arc of a circle of which the

distance from the camera to the point of sight is the radius, for about

2 2 inches, when a second picture is taken, and the two impressions, con-

jointl"y,Thfeorremaorenembainnyocwualayrs  picture.  this   result  may   be  obtained.  A spot
                                           by which

may be placed in the ground glass, on which the point of sight should be
made exactly to fall; the camera may then be moved 2 1 inches and

adjusted till the point of sight falls again upon the same spot on the
ground glass, when, if the camera has been moved in a true horizontal
              effect of the double picture will be perfect.
plane",  the  obtaining this motion in the true arc of a                  circle,  Mr.  Hensman,

         For

the engineer to the Bank of England, recommended me to adopt a car-

riage with two movable axles, with wheels of which the front pair is a

little smaller than the back pair. The idea of the construction is, that

the carriage should revolve on two cones which ran round a circle, and the

diameter of the circle is determined by the distance between the larger

and smaller wheels and the convergence of the axles. In practice, on a
surface adjusted by spirit-levels, it answers well, and probably may be
found useful in some cases. At Messrs. Home and Thornthwaite's photo-

graphic room, an apparatus has been fixed, which allows the motion of the
Icamera to be made perfectly horizontal in the arc of a definite circle.

From experiments which we have made, rather give the preference to
pictures made with the camera in continual motion, backwards and for-
wards, for 2 inches, as the picture is, in this case, even more beautiful
than if the two images were superimposed. This experiment is very

remarkable, for who would have thought formerly, that a picture could

possibly have been made with a camera in continual motion ? Neverthe-
less, we accomplish it every day with ease, and the character of the like-

ness "isWwhoennedveerrfulalysoimlipdrboovdeyd   by it.      in binocular  perspective,   a suitable
                                               is depicted
background should be arranged behind it to
                                                            exhibit the interpenetration.
If this be not considered, the picture has an               increased width with double

edges, and does not exhibit that glorious delicacy of shading which Nature

gives to objects seen with both eyes. In all cases of binocular perspective
we must be careful not to imitate Nature by endeavouring to depict an

excessive range of distances. In practice, the eye can only focus objects
within a certain range : hence in pictures we still take Nature as our guide

when"    we  only depict   a  moderate range.               or the importance      of this mode
             is not easy  to  predict the extent
         It

of drawing, because an extensive experience is required before artists can
No. XX.]  m APPENDIX.                                                                     283

Ijudge of these matters. From the best consideration which can give to
Ithe subject, am inclined to believe that, with regard to paintings, it will
reduce to rule the methods intuitively practised by our great and honoured
masters ; and, with respect to photographs, it may be possibly found to
supply the desideratum so long required of delineating a delicately-shaded

pictur"eI,ninvsietewaidngotfh, easse  at present,   a hard perspective   drawing.     is  produced
                                       binocular   representations, the  best effect
by examining them with one eye when they are tolerably close ; or, if two

eyes be employed, by viewing the i*epresentation at such a distance that

we are not enabled to detect the flatness of the picture, and thus discover

the cheat. How far we may take liberties with the distance between the
two sights, for the camera, will be a subject of future investigation under

various circumstances.
      " The light falling upon the edges of bodies obliquely is reflected to a

considerable extent. This effect must be carefully noted by the painter,

as this phenomenon much increases the appearance of the rotundity of

bodies. In this case the light is the colour of the source from which it
arises. Sometimes it is white light ; in the evening it is red.
     " In the cases of bodies in a plane either before or behind the point of

sight, which from their size and position are seen in two places at once,
the impression of one is generally neglected. In these instances it does
not follow that the light reflected from one image should be reflected from
the other, because, from the position of the eyes, the position may not be
congenial for reflection in both cases. The effect of light is extremely
difficult for the painter to represent, because white or yellow paint is a

          substitute for the glorious light of day.
          investigations which have conducted upon
Ivery "pTohore                                                           binocular perspective

have afforded instructive and interesting views of the mental image which

results from the combined physical pictures of both eyes. To represent
this mental image so that it may be visible at one glance, has been a work

with me of much thought ; and its practical application has been a deduc-

tion from my electro-biological speculations."

                                                   XX.

ON EDUCATION. LETTER OF ALFRED SMEE ADDRESSED TO THE

          COMMITTEE OF INDUSTRIAL INSTRUCTION IN 1853.

I have very carefully considered the various questions transmitted
by the Committee of Industrial Instruction, and beg to submit the
following remarks in reference to the matter.
1. It appears to me in the highest degree desirable that the endowed
grammar schools should teach subjects more congenial with the spirit

Iand requirements of the present time. Having been educated at St.

Paul's School, can confidently state that many important branches of
knowledge now neglected could be taught in addition to the mere routine
of Latin and Greek. Childhood is that time of life which is most suited
to receive knowledge by the medium of the senses, and hence an                            exclusive
application to grammar, Latin and Greek, does not comport                                 with the
natural aptitudes of the individual at that period. To meet                               this im-
portant defect, it would be desirable to add            to the present usual              course of
study the elements of Arithmetic, Chemistry,             Physics, and Natural
                                                                                           History.
284                       APPENDIX.                             [No. XX.

     IUp to twelve years of age, believe that subjects of instruction
should, as far as possible, be brought tangibly before the child ; for every

object which is impressed upon the mind, and every property of which it
is made cognizant, remains till the latest period of life, and may give rise

Ihereafter to important results. Simple facts brought tangibly before the

senses may be regarded as units of knowledge, and must submit that
such units should especially be regarded in any scheme of sound education
for early childhood. After twelve, the mind well stored with units may

be taught to combine and arrange them, and at that period the best and

soundest theories should be the subject of education.
    I much
              fear that those who seek to  oifm"prNoove    the  endowed grammar
schools will  be met with the usual cry                  room    for such subjects
Ihere." To those who employ this old and hackneyed phrase, will reply
that it is impossible to confine a child's attention to Latin and Greek for

more than half the period that he is usually employed at school, and that

such additional subjects would be an agreeable diversion for his mind,

would command his attention, and render his scholastic studies far more

agreeable to him.

     A child not only likes to derive knowledge by the medium of his
senses, but he is also fond of doing some work for himself. This desire

should, as far as possible, be gratified ; and a child may practise drawing,

be taught to make pieces of mechanism, and even conduct some of the

more 'simple chemical processes.

      The number of masters even at our first grammar schools is extremely

insufficient. In some cases a single master has the charge of as many as

forty boys, a number far too many to insure a satisfactoiy tuition ; and
thus the addition of masters for other subjects could not fail to be

extremely beneficial.

     The introduction of additional studies into the endowed grammar

schools would probably require not only the force of public opinion, but

even would demand a legislative enactment, so far are the managers

wedded to bygone practices and antiquated customs.

      2. With respect to the Mechanics' and Literary Institutions as now

constituted,  they seem   rather to be places of amusement than institutions
for study.                for example the London Institution, which is noted
              If we take
for its wealth and its means for instruction, we find that at the present time
not one single educational course is provided. Its laboratory is tenantless

and useless, and, with the exception of an evening lecture twice a week

during the winter months, its magnificent theatre is unused.

     It appears to me that all these institutions should have professors to

direct regular educational courses adapted to the young, and occasionally
that special evenings should be set apart for the illustration of new
discoveries and principles, in order that those engaged in business may be
fully made acquainted with all the scientific novelties of the day. The im-
provement of these institutions in many cases depends upon the managers ;
in too many instances the managers regard the post as an honour to be
coveted, for a certain rank which it is supposed to bestow on account of
their sitting in a more prominent seat, and by placing amusement before
instruction theyforget the real educational objects for which such institu-

tions are destined : but there appears to me to be no valid reason why

regular systematic instruction should not be supplied at the Mechanics'
and Literary Institutions.
No. XX.]                                APPENDIX.                         '285

3. The same class of boys are sent to the grammar schools as to the

proprietary schools : hence their requirements demand a similar education.
For instance, an education which is good for King's College would be good
for St. Paul's, Westminster, or Merchant Taylors', as the boys in each case
belong to the middle class of society.
Different classes of society manifestly require, in many respects, a
                                        ; nevertheless,  amongst all classes, there are many
pveoriyntdsififnerecnotmmedounc.atioAn  knowledge of     the properties of numbers and of

physical forces is as useful to the poor as to the rich. The master who

orders the steam-engine to be manufactured should understand its
several parts and the power which it is likely to possess. The engineer
who designs the steam-engine must of necessity be fully acquainted with

its principles and properties. The man who works the steam-engine should
equally understand the principles upon which it is constructed ; and the

mechanic who makes the engine would be the more trustworthy servant if

he possessed the intelligence to comprehend the nature of his work and
were fully aware of the purposes for which each part was destined.

     A knowledge of the properties of matter and of physical forces should
be taught to every child, irrespective of station or future occupation. It
cannot fail to be useful in every grade of life, should be regarded as the

foundation of secular knowledge, and taught at every school.

     In this country, the people, as a mass, seem to be greatly destitute of

an acute appreciation of colour and form. To acquire a knowledge of this

character, Nature must be studied. The beautiful flower, the elegant plant,
or the symmetrical proportions of animated life must be observed, and their
appearance fixed upon the mind at an early period of life.
The appreciation of beauty is as suitable for those in a lower as for

those in a higher station of society ; yet the difficulties presented to the

observation of Nature in the environs of a large metropolis are far beyond

Iwhat might have been anticipated.
       Many a time have seen troops of police scouring the woods in the
vicinity of London to prevent an invasion of property by an entomologist

catching an insect, or a flower-seeker gathering a primrose.

     At every school there can be no reason for the omission of botanical
and natural history rambles under the surveillance of competent persons.

At medical schools it is the practice of the professor to take such rambles,

and the day is much enjoyed by the pupils. Independently of the pleasure
derivable from such rambles, which cannot fail to endear the master to the

pupil, the mind would be thereby led not to despise the beautiful because

it is common ; and would be trained to admire and to study the form and
colouring of Nature, the only reliable guide for the artist or designer.

Even with respect to works of art, the mass of the people have the
greatest difficulty in obtaining copies of approved examples, or of viewing
approved devices; and consequently their education on this score is

Iextremely defective, and their taste extensively vitiated. "When first
Iprosecuted my electro-metallurgic researches, thought that some system
Imight be adopted to enable the public to obtain copies of the beautiful

coins or medals of antiquity ; but found that although the cabinets and

Imuseums were freely open to me, yet they were practically closed to the
working man.  have on several occasions been employed on the part of

the Crown to give evidence against false coiners, who might have earned

a large remuneration if they had had subjects upon which they might have
286                            APPENDIX.                          [No. XX.

exercised the same amount of skill. In matters of art, description is but

a poor apology for the reality, and therefore copies or models should be

placed in every school.
     Great mischief appears to arise from an inaccurate use of words and
language. Frequently a sufficiently definite meaning is not attached to

the word, as the mind is not sufficiently trained to regard the object

signified. At grammar schools the pupil is always treating of words
Iinstead of things, and from want of definite ideas the pupil is much more

exposed to the influence of quibbles. believe that half the discussion and
difference of political and religious opinion depends upon an imperfect

appreciation of the meaning of words, depending upon their being so much
used without relation to the things signified, and in this respect we
frequently observe a deficiency in the education of the clergy.
     A great defect of the schools for all classes of children in this country
is their exclusive attention to the mere book information of man, to the

neglect of the real knowledge obtainable by the study of Nature.

     IMy professional duties have given me ample opportunities to observe
different classes of society.  need hardly make any remark upon that

degraded class whom we occasionally see, and who scarcely know their
name, age, and abode, or in fact possess much more intelligence than an

animal. Am DTI gat, mechanics we frequently observe a strong desire to

obtain knowledge as far as possible, but they have slender means for

learning the rationale or theory of the means which they employ in their

respective trades. They read to a certain extent, but they can only afford

Ito purchase the cheaper books of the day ; and amongst my dispensary

patients frequently observe signs of moderate intellectual culture, which

doubtless would have been further developed had they only the advantage

Iof better means for improving themselves.

      Amongst the middle classes have frequently been astonished at
observing, not only that there is a total absence of books of any kind, but

also that there are no indications of any pursuit of knowledge of any kind
Iwhatsoever; and frequently, in answer to my interrogatories,
                                                                      have

discovered that they have no occupation whatsoever besides that of their

monotonous business. The good effect of a variation of study is well

manifested amongst the gentlemen employed in the Bank of England ; for

almost all who have obtained the higher posts are distinguished for their

general knowledge, and amongst them may be found historians, musicians,
painters, botanists, floriculturists, mechanicians, political economists,

microscopists, entomologists, numismatists, and in fact students of many

Iother branches of knowledge. With those who have no occupation have
often enforced additional studies as a healthy exercise to the mind.

     The middle classes in many cases are deficient to a great extent in the
appreciation of general principles, and thus when called upon to govern,

even to a slight extent, are often much perplexed by not having been

trained to control their action by fixed and immutable laws, and are

bewildered by a conflict between feeling and principle.

    IThe upper class follow the bent of their inclination with respect to

their occupation and pursuits, and have known persons in their private

capacities alternate the most manual labour with the most intellectual

studies. In respect of intellectual culture by the study of Nature and
Art upon the highest philosophical principle, they are frequently greatly
in advance of those in a less exalted state.
No. XX.]                          APPENDIX.  287

       To remedy the defects observed amongst diffei-ent classes, an example
must be afforded by extensive changes in the system of education pursued
at the endowed schools ; for though it is impossible to overrate the high
tone of feeling and valuable traditional rules for the guidance of conduct
which pervade these noble establishments, yet we cannot forget that the
scholastic learning there followed belongs to a bygone age, which, though
well suited to that period, yet is not adapted to the present state of human

knowledge.

    I4. Enterprise in this country is always competent to adapt the supply

to the demand, and therefore myself am inclined to question the necessity

of issuing cheap books, maps, models, diagrams, or apparatus. At the

same time there appears to be a great want of well-arranged devices of this

Icharacter, so designed that they can be made readily and cheaply. On

this account believe that it would be a great desideratum to employ the
highest talent to write books or make patterns from which manufacturers
might construct their models. In all probability private printers and
private manufacturers would make from a pattern more cheaply than
could be effected in Government or other central workshops. The cost of

the copyrights of educational works, or of models, is of very little moment,

as any expense could be afforded for so great a national object.

     5. It appears to me that great care must be taken in issuing general

rules for education,   for fear   that   an undue preponderance be given to
particular directions  of study.        is manifestly important that all classes
                                   It

should be instructed not only by words, but through the medium of their
senses. After a general preliminary education great care should be taken

that every department of knowledge be carried to its fullest extent by
different persons, and that no superiority or bias be given to one science
over another. There is always a fear in a central governing council that

one party may get a preponderance, when sore mischief may be caused ;
but, with a due regard to abstract and practical knowledge of all kinds,

plans of education may be very conveniently set forth for general

guidance.

      6. 7, 8. The question of prizes must be regarded as one of extreme
difficulty and delicacy. No doubt the substantial prizes awarded exclusively
to successful cultivators of classical learning do positive injury to the

advance of human knowledge, and, in my opinion, a decided preponderance

of substantial prizes should be bestowed upon the successful prosecutors of

real learning over that of the dead languages. When we take into con-

sideration that our forefathers bestowed their prizes on the students of

the dead languages at a time when they were a key to every form of useful
knowledge, should we not regard their intention by diverting some part

from their comparatively useless pui-pose to the furtherance of the various
branches of human knowledge for which they were doubtless instituted,
and which ever must fill a full page in the annals of the world ?

      Whenever prizes are given the student should be taught to estimate
knowledge for knowledge itself, to prosecute science for science itself, and

Ion no account to regard the prize as the end to be attained. Upon the

whole, am myself adverse to the liberal use of prizes, for we find that
even the philosophers of the Royal Society are apt to display considerable
weakness in the disposition of the royal medals.
An excessive stimulus to competition appears to me calculated to urge
288                    APPENDIX.  [No. XX.

men always in some way to try to vie with their neighbours, and ill-feeling
is produced by continual attempts to have some slight advantage or
superior rank. From boyhood it will be desirable that knowledge should
be cultivated for a more noble end. The infant should be taught that
knowledge itself is above all considerations of wealth or station ; that it
should be valued for its own intrinsic worth and for its positive power of

conferring happiness upon the possessor, independently of any accidental
adjuncts as wealth, position, or power, which may or may not be its
accompaniments. The infant should be taught that knowledge itself
confers upon the individual an inexhaustible source of pleasure which will

Iremain through every vicissitude of life.                               To
          perceive another reason for employing prizes very cautiously.
obtain a prize the pupil is led to give up his own mode of thought and

substitute that of his examiners. In any extensive system the minds of
the pupils are led to esteem knowledge for the opinion the world has of it,
instead of being encouraged to follow and practise that more severe frame

of mind which judges of knowledge by knowledge, tests theories by facts,

and gives that moral courage which enables the man to put forward and

Imaintain his well-considered opinions against those of all the world

besides. For this reason fear that an extensive central system of prizes

might retard knowledge, and produce one general public opinion and a

universal mediocrity.

      The answers given in competing for a prize are not of necessity a test
of the opinions of the writer. The sceptic may give answers inferring his

belief, and lately the medical profession was greatly scandalised by a

gentleman answering all the questions upon the treatment of disease, by

describing the most approved medical practice, whereas within a few hours

Ihe announced himself as a subscriber to the absurdities of Hahnemann.
         can speak from experience that those who work for prizes not only
seek a knowledge of the subject, but make a practice of ascertaining the

modes of thought of the examiners, and a competitor sometimes obtains

success by confining his studies to those parts of the subject which he

considered would probably be selected for examination.

     In the medical profession it is notorious that the questions likely to

be asked at the public examinations are narrowed into a small compass, so
that whilst a student makes himself acquainted with his profession he also
frequently considers it necessary to make himself acquainted with the

knowledge and peculiarities of his examiners.

    IIf, however, prizes are not carried to great excess, believe that they
Iare useful. am, however, inclined to believe that far greater benefits may

Iarise from affixing a certain designation to a certain standard of knowledge,

as have observed that the designation of M.A. and of F.R.S. are esteemed
by the public as indications of a certain standard of knowledge.
                                                                       should
    ISubstantial prizes, as fellowships, scholarships, and annuities,
greatly prefer to honorary prizes, as being better adapted to promote the
desired end. Being of intrinsic value, they would in most cases be free
from the objections which appear to be attached to purely honorary
distinctions.
No. XXI.]                     APPENDIX.                                   289

                              No. XXI.   ^

AN INTRODUCTORY DISCOURSE ON THE OBJECTS AND ADVANTAGES

    OF EDUCATIONAL LECTURES, IN CONNECTION WITH THE LONDON

    INSTITUTION. "With a Diagram showing the Faculties of the Human
    Mind at different Periods of Life. Delivered by ALFRED SMEE, Esq.,
    F.R.S., on Saturday, October 14th, 1854, on commencing the season

    of Educational Lectures.

YOUNG LADIES AND YOUNG GENTLEMEN,

    The proprietors of the London Institution, which was founded by the
munificence of the merchants and bankers of London for the promotion of
literature and science, have resolved to give up this theatre to your use
upon two afternoons in each week ; in order that you may advantageously
partake of the inestimable benefits of instruction from well-qualified
teachers, and perfectly enjoy the delightful pleasure which arises out of
Ithe knowledge of natural science.
         have been requested by my fellow-managers to address you this first
afternoon on the general use and value of those scientific subjects which will
be hereafter more particularly considered by the eminent lecturers who

Ihave been engaged to instruct you ; and must also ask you to give me
Iyour careful attention, and to think of nothing but that which am saying,
Iwhilst detail what you can learn and what you cannot learn by coming
here and listening with your best attention to the different lectures as they

are delivered.

    You are not all of the same age ; and you will observe that these
lectures will not be attended by the young only, but occasionally even by
Isuch as are advanced in years, and sometimes by those who are still in

the prime of life. shall endeavour to show you the parts of the different
subjects which will most interest and most instruct my different hearers ;
for rest assured that each of us, from the time we leave the cradle till we

recline in the arm-chair of extreme old age, has different powers, different

capabilities, and different duties to perform. At no period of life can any
neglect be allowed, without that neglect producing a corresponding injury
at every subsequent period ; and a loss of time and opportunity now, will
be attended by a loss of honourable position and of happiness hereafter.
      Now, my young friends, at your  age you have all your senses acute
in  the highest degree. Nothing can
                                      escape your bright sharp eyes, if

rightly used. Your ears, also, are endowed with the highest faculty of
hearing, and your tender skin with feeling. In these respects you will
have great advantages over the older part of the audience. Here you
excel ; and it is your duty to take full advantage of the acuteness of your
senses. Sharp, however, as your eyes are, you will find that to appreciate
all the beauties of nature, you will want much additional and artificial
assistance. You will first require the aid of the microscope to help you,
since for seeing the lovely down upon the butterfly's wing, covering and
protecting the wing-case, like the slates on a house, it is absolutely
necessary ; and you will find that when you have strained your eyes to the
utmost upon a drop of water, and yet have seen nothing, the microscope
will reveal to you thousands on thousands of living beings, enjoying their

                                         U
290 APPENDIX.

life, and, even in their inconceivable minuteness, completely fulfilling
the object for which the Creator of the universe in His wisdom de-

Isigned them.                               am enabled to show you an

      By the kindness of Mr. Thornthwaite,
elegant microscope which he has devised for the purpose of exhibiting
microscopic objects to a number of persons at the same time. For illumi-

nating the specimens, he uses a spirit-lamp, which is fed by oxygen gas
from a tube instead of atmospheric air. This intense flame renders a piece

of lime incandescent ; and, by means of a microscope constructed like a

magic lantern, a magnified representation is shown upon a white screen.
By it you are enabled to see the curious structure of the foot which is
given to the spider for arranging the threads of his web : by it a thin slice
of common wood is shown to be built up of cells aggregated together ; a

drop of blood is found to contain the most curious organized bodies, called
corpuscules; and a section of hard bone exhibits a structure rivalling the

most beautiful carpet. In every object in nature a perfection is contained

which requires the aid of the microscope to reveal, for after unaided vision
has exhausted its powers of appreciation, a new world is brought to light

at every increase of magnifying power.
      As you require the microscope to reveal the hidden treasures of ter-

restrial bodies, so the telescope must be used to show you the wonders of

Ithe heavens. Saturn, to the naked eye, looks but an ordinary star ; but

have here a drawing of the glorious form which it assumes when seen by
the assistance of the telescope constructed by Mr. De La Rue, one of the
managers of this institution.

     In your intercourse with each other, you will find that you are not all

equally endowed with the same powers of perception by the senses. Those
who are more highly favoured should bestow a kind consideration upon
those who are less blessed. You have nothing to lose by aiding each other

to acquire knowledge, but everything to gain by promoting and exercising

this social kindness.
      Your period of life philosophers may call the AISTHENIC, for now your
senses are in the highest perfection. They will never grow better, though
      twerimll ingartaedu"atllhyis                               worse, till extreme old
they                                and imperceptibly become                              age
may                                  strange eventful history,"  and you may be left

      " Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything !"

      You have all seen the little child reposing upon its mother's lap,
admiring its fingers, as it moves them, with delight and astonishment.
This is one of the first acts of observation; but you are no longer
children, and your desire for new objects has increased with your age ; and
you now excel in the power which you have to observe different objects
with intelligence, and to fix their images in your minds for ever. Some of

you who are yet young are not so quick of perception as those who are
older ; yet the period of youth is the period for obtaining lasting impres-
sions. Although you have the power of vision, you scarcely can tell how
many things you may have seen, which you have never noticed. How

Imany of you know that a bee has four wings, or that a common fly has

but two ? And will dare venture to assert that many of you have never
noticed that a beetle has six legs ; but yet you all have seen bees, and flies,

and beetles hundreds and hundreds of times.
No. XXI.]  APPENDIX.
292                                APPENDIX.                                     [No. XXI.

      The advantage of the knowledge of objects, and the proper name to

be assigned to each, is very great. At these lectures you will find that a
large number of objects, embracing also a very great variety, will be shown
to you. Excellent and accurate drawings will likewise be exhibited, so
Ithat you may be led to form a correct idea of the appearance of those
different objects which are presented to your notice.                            must here tell

you of some instances where persons have not known objects when they

have seen them, in order that you may judge for yourselves as to the use
which it may be to you to come here and pay attention to these lectures
which the proprietors have so liberally provided for you. A working man
went to the gold diggings and found a beautiful stone. He showed it to
his companions, who thought it a most valuable diamond and offered
him at once 200 for it. Being determined not to make a bad bargain,
he refused this sum, brought it to England and offered it for sale, when to
his horror and dismay he was told that it was really not a diamond, but

only a crystal of quartz, and scarcely worth half-a-crown.
     In making you acquainted with the knowledge of objects, the London
Institution will be of much use to you ; nevertheless we have not the

Icollections here which exist in our national museums : and whilst ask you
Ito attend diligently these educational lectures, still also beg of you not to
neglect frequent visits to the British Museum, to Kew Gardens, to the
Zoological Society, and to the Crystal Palace ; in each of which you will

see fresh objects every time you go, although your visits may be very fre-
quently, repeated ; for you will discover it to be an equally curious and
interesting truth, that the oftener you go and the more attentively you
look, the more you will find to observe and admire.

     The power of observing increases with its exercise. One boy takes his

walk, and sees nothing ; another takes the same walk, and sees many

things. The observant youth has bestowed his attention upon everything

around him ; but the other has passed heedlessly by the most interesting

Iobjects. In youth attention is the faculty of the mind which ought to be

the most carefully cultivated and practised ; and hope that no one will
come to these lectures who will not try to attend, and in fact who will

Inot try diligently to attend to all which is passing.

         am well aware that the youngest of you may sometimes find it
difficult to fix your attention. The best plan, however, is to bring with

you a pencil and a note-book, and put down the principal points which the

"leActTuTrEeNrTmIOeNn.t"ionsL. et  W" haettneenvtieorny"obuer   thoughts wander   remember the word
                                                               your watchword ;  and then the lectures
which you are about to hear will be a source of pleasure now, and perhaps
of profit for all future time.
     The managers of the London Institution will spare no expense and

no trouble to render these lectures interesting and instructive to you.
The more you desire, the more are they prepared to give you, as it was the
only wish of the great merchants who founded this noble institution, that
it should, like the sun, send forth its light upon all who desire to partake
of its genial influence.

     It is, however, not only the observation of simple objects which is
important, but the changes which each object undergoes must be carefully
noted. We see the egg of an insect hatched into a caterpillar ; the cater-
pillar grow till it spins its web, and turns into a chrysalis; and the
No. XXI.]                 APPENDIX.      293

chrysalis finally lose its case and become the beautiful butterfly. This
forms a palpable series of changes, the order of which your memory is
not likely to alter ; but changes continually occur in all bodies, and these
         you must    be very careful to note in the order in which they occur.
changes  chemistry    the transmutations of matter under various circum-

     In

stances are of the most extraordinary character. The beautiful pigment
called Prussian-blue is but a change of offensive animal matter, potash
and iron. Some of our scents and flavours also, as the oil of pine-apple
and the oil of the delicious ribstone pippin, are the products of chemical
         from fusel oil,  a most offensive product in the distillation of
changes                    knowledge of these changes, the educational
spirit.  In acquiring a

lectures at the London Institution will be of great service to you. We
have a laboratory with all necessary materials, and every form of apparatus
is at our command, which may be required to illustrate the different
subjects. A lecture would frequently cost a large sum of money, were
not the apparatus at hand, or could it not be easily borrowed. It is for
Ithis reason that ordinary schools cannot undertake the teaching of these

subjects : and were to tell you of the labour and expense required for
some of the lectures which have been delivered within these walls, you
would be especially thankful for the privilege which you possess of being
enabled to attend these demonstrations.

The knowledge which here will be brought before you will be of the
utmost value in future life. Each fact may be regarded as a unit of
Iknowledge ; and those who acquire the most will have a great advantage
over their fellows.  show you a piece of gossan, a peculiar sort of stone

which guides the miner to the detection of copper ore, and large fortunes

Ihave been made by a knowledge of the peculiarities of the stone. This is

a simple mineralogical fact, but might illustrate similar facts in every
department of science.

     It is not, however, a mere question of utility, but thei'e is the highest
gratification also to be found in a careful observance of Nature, and the

study of Nature's laws. A touching anecdote was told me by Mr. Spence,

Ithe distinguished author of the work on Entomology, which commend to

the notice of you all. At the Model Prison a person was confined in a

dismal cell, with windows which did not allow him ever to see the sky.

When he took exercise, he paced a few square yards in the same spot day
by day. His only amusement under this terrible sentence was minutely

to notice every little weed which grew upon it. He saw these sprout from

Iseed, increase in growth, bud, flower, and seed again. Now, when tell

you that the plants so observed were simply the shepherd's-purse, the
groundsel, and a few more weeds, you will see how great is your advantage,
when you consider the multitude of plants which clothe the earth, the
countless swarms of insects which fly in the air, the fish, the birds, the
animals, the changes of the seasons, and even the works of men's hands

which are open to your observation in freedom. In fact everything which
is contained upon the earth and even in the firmament of heaven, the sun,
tlie moon, the planets, the comets, the stars, the nebulae, will afford you

objects for observation, study, and delight, if you will only regard them

with intelligence and attention. There is in fact no end to the acquisition

of natural knowledge : for if you could know all which others have dis-
covered, it would be but as a drop of water to the ocean. The study of
294                             APPENDIX.                    [No. XXI.

Nature and Nature's laws forms an inexhaustible source of pleasure ; and
the longest life will not suffice to exhaust a fountain which can never be

I Idried up.                    have heard persons declare, that they have
          regret to state that
been present at nearly every lecture delivered by the eminent men who
have honoured this institution by their discourses during a period of many
                                        from            Let  such a fearful
years, without deriving  any advantage  ; for   them.        to our lectures
statement weigh heavily  on your minds                 come
                                               if you

as those persons have done, without paying a proper attention to the
subjects explained, you will, like them, derive no benefit. Others who have
attended to the lectures, have acknowledged that they owe their present
                                     attention to the great truths which    have
position and  power   to a careful                                          hear
been taught   within   these walls.    It is, therefore, better for you to

a few lectures attentively, than hundreds with that carelessness and inatten-
tion which allow no permanent effect to be produced upon the mind.
     If we carefully consider the evils arising from an absence of know-
ledge, we shall soon perceive what lamentable consequences must be the
Iresult. Two or three years ago, many persons were poisoned by bella-

donna-berries sold about the streets ; and remember a man to have been

bitten by a viper as he carried the creature about, supposing it to have
been only a harmless snake. This year we read that in Italy, during the
visitation of the dreadful scourge which passed over the earth, the people
believed that the doctors were the cause of it, and drove them from the

city when they most needed their aid. At another place they supposed
the doctors had poisoned the water, and compelled them to drink to prove

their innocence. Curiously enough also, five hundred years ago, by a
similar lamentable ignorance, a fatal epidemic of the period, called the
black death, was ascribed to poison cast into the wells by the Jews ; and

hundreds of poor wretches were cruelly tormented and barbarously put to
death, for a malady which was entirely owing to a visitation of God.

tboeg"inDaotomnooortbesthecrionvnekv. etnoIiefpnutytouosfefadsothoens,o"t,imyaoneudfoawrreaaittnteotnitltliooynnolyutolaosrseuinrorgoldupenrredcibnioegufosroebtjiemycoetus,

which never can return, but your faculties of appreciation will rather

diminish than increase. Although the faculties of observation last as long

as the senses last, yet in advancing years new objects do not make such

I Ivivid impressions as they do in early life. The faculty of deriving simple

ideas from Nature, have called from reasons which need not explain,
the SYNDRAMIC FACULTY: a faculty which increases from childhood to

adolescence, and decreases from puberty to old age. It is your time now
to observe, and if you neglect it deficiency of information and inferiority

to those around you must inevitably be your lot.

     It is, however, not only necessary to obtain facts, but the facts must
by thought and reflection be brought before the mind, and so combined

and arranged together, that they may constitute principles. In this way
we derive our ideas of force and power, and obtain a notion of heat, light,
and electricity, and all the various qualities and properties of matter.

    IThus, if throw a piece of potassium into water, it combines with the
Ioxygen, one element of the water, and forms potash ; or may remove one
element by a piece of zinc, or a piece of iron. When we find from a vast

number of facts that we can join simple bodies together, separate com-
No. XXL]  APPENDIX.                                                    295

pound bodies in their elements, and convert two bodies into a third, we
then Iotbtiasinnootnemiydeparoovfinccheemtiocalshaofwfinihtyo.w we obtain the ideas of all the
physical forces, or the relations of one to another : that will be the duty of
your different teachers. This part of the subject is
and will require your fullest attention and reflection.   confessedly  difficult,
                                                                       persons,'
                                                         As youthful
however, you can have but a faint glimmer of those great and glorious
principles which hereafter you will more fully perceive.
       This high mental faculty is termed the NOEMIC FACULTY, which is
almost entirely absent in early childhood, then increases to manhood, and
declines again with advancing years. For the exercise of it, you must well
employ your time whilst young in the collection of observations for
reflection. Without facts you can have no thought, without thought you
can have no principles ; and it is upon the correctness of your principles
that your success in after-life will most materially depend.
      We have remarkable instances of the power of a knowledge of princi-
ples over the mind of those who are ignorant. Sir Harry Smith, when he
conquered the Africans, desired to show them his superior power. He
ordered a baggage-waggon to be placed at a distance, to which he had con-
nected wires communicating with a battery. When the Africans had
assembled, he told them at his command the waggon would blow up. They
marvelled. He spoke the word; they saw nothing. The circuit was
secretly completed, and the waggon was shivered to atoms. Some
voyagers, taking advantage of an eclipse, the occurrence of which was
predicted by calculation, have stated that they so frightened the Indians,
Ithat they obtained from them whatever was desired ; and though

   entirely and utterly disapprove of this mode of proceeding, it never-
theless equally illustrates the power which is conferred by an intimate
knowledge of the great principles of science.

By thought and reflection we are likewise enabled to form right
judgments in general; and when two assertions, apparently different, are
brought before our minds, we can select that which is the true one. Last
year the merchants of London were startled by the large amount of gold
stated to exist in certain English rocks. Some of my friends were inter-
ested in a particular mine, which by the mechanical process yielded large
quantities of gold; but by chemical processes, only such an amount of
the metal was found as was insufficient to cover the expenses of extraction.
After much careful thought, therefore, we judged it most prudent to trust

to the chemical processes, but many persons trusted to the mechanical pro-

Icesses and lost thereby various sums of money ; and in one case heard
that a single individual lost as much as 4000 by this error of judgment.
With all our care we shall not always judge rightly, or, judging
rightly, we shall come to wrong conclusions, because we shall sometimes
act upon wrong facts. We should therefore have much compassion upon
those who are proved to have formed erroneous judgments ; although true
facts and principles will always in the long run prevent mankind from
believing the plausible statements of quacks, pretenders, and schemers.
We cannot judge rightly by our own unaided reason, for without a proper
set of facts and principles no judgment can be made; and we only

deceive ourselves if we call our thought a judgment without proper data.
Nevertheless, the tendency of man to judge with insufficient data is so
296            APPENDIX.                                   [No. XXI.

great, that more than half the errors of mankind may be traced to this

source alone.

     Before you are called into action, also, your mind must be stored with

facts and principles properly to guide your designs. The child knows

but little, and does scarcely anything ; the boy has more facts, and there-

fore effects more ; but the man is in the plenitude of his power till age

weakens him, and lessens his capability. The faculty of action is called

Ithe DYNAMIC FACULTY ; and to judge of what you may be called upon to

do, consider what has been done since the period when was but a youth.

Since that time the railway system has been devised ; and then consider

the tunnels, the cuttings, the embankments, the bridges, and the many ela-
borate contrivances necessary to be devised before this great revolution in

locomotion could be effected. During the same period, also, the electric

telegraph has been invented ; and now intelligence is conveyed so rapidly
that events are daily transmitted over extensive regions of the globe, and

frequently a knowledge of events is received at one part of the globe at an
earlier period by the clock than that at which they actually happen.
     Again, the application of electro-metallurgy to the arts has led to
great improvements, and most extensive alterations in our processes.
Moreover, in the course of the same period, the Thames Tunnel has been

constructed under the river Thames ; and also the Britannia Bridge, which
crosses over an arm of the sea. The formation of a palace of iron and

glass is another example of an extraordinary effort of human intellect.

It is impossible for you to tell what may be effected in a similar number
of future years ; and if you desire to take part in the rapid course of

Ihuman improvement, your mind must have been stored beforehand with

those units of knowledge which have already described.
     As youths you are neither expected, nor are you competent, to carry

out any great work ; but certain things you can do for yourselves, and

you can thus bring your knowledge into play within reasonable limits.

Tou do not require expensive materials for many processes. A few little
glasses and a retort will enable you to make analyses, and even to manu-
facture many substances. In these ^employments you will find great
amusement in the long evenings of winter, as well as in the dreary wet
weather which sometimes occurs in the Christmas holidays.
     At this Institution, during these holidays in the present year, Mr.

Malone has arranged to receive a limited number of young persons and to

give them laboratory instruction ; and those who take advantage of his
teaching, will thus be enabled to conduct many chemical processes for
themselves in the laboratory of this building.

     Accurate original research often requires costly apparatus ; but to
Icarry out that which is known, the simplest contrivances will suffice.
                                                                         am
Itempted here to show you a little electrical apparatus which once set up
on the spur of the moment. We had a beautiful garden in one of the

London suburbs, and we received information that whilst the family were
at dinner a systematic robbery of the fruit was carried on. After ponder-

Iing over the matter, got some wire, and connected it at one end with a
Ibattery and at the other with a cup of mercury ; and with another wire
connected again the mercury to the other pole of the battery, enclosing in

Ithe circuit a magnet, the keeper of which was attached to the alarum of a
Dutch clock.   then stretched a delicate piece of thread across the garden,
No. XXL]      APPENDIX.                                        297

tying one end to the copper wire and the other to the trunk of a tree. All
Ibeing ready, went in to dinner, and the alarum speedily rang. The thief
Ihad moved the thread and pulled the wire out of the mercury.
and caught   the boy, who declared that he                     ran out
only would                                                  come again if we
            let him go this once. All such  would never
                                            little devices  you may contrive,

and they have a good influence in encouraging the habit of spontaneous
invention.

Chemical and mechanical occupations are more especially for the
young gentlemen, but the young ladies may have their share of occupation.
They will find that their botanical studies may be much improved by
studying the growth of plants. Those who live in the country, may
cultivate their flowers with more ease ; but even those who live in the
middle of London are not altogether precluded from this pursuit by the
difficulties of their situation. Many plants may be grown under glass in
great perfection, as Ward has taught us. Here is a specimen of the rarest
of English ferns (called the Tunbridge fern), which grows and fructifies
Iin Finsbury Circus as well as in any part of Great Britain.
                                                              myself love
Ito see plants grow in this manner, and have generally lilacs in blossom at
Christmas ; and with a little trouble and protection you also may have
many choice plants even in the centre of London. To such of you as may

Iat once like to commence the cultivation of plants by this process, have
Ibrought some Lycopodiums, which will distribute after the lecture, and
which you can readily grow under glass.

     To cultivate plants with success, it is quite necessary that you should
attend to certain circumstances. As horticultural weapons you must

employ and regulate the heat and cold, the light and darkness, and the
damp and dryness of the soil and atmosphere. By properly managing
these natural powers, success will attend your efforts, and you will be
delighted to see the fronds of ferns unfurl themselves, and many a choice
flower will gladden your eyes with delight and fill the room with odoriferous
perfume. However much the sun may be obscured from your room, still
some forms of vegetable life will be put forth ; and though by comparison
the rose or lily may superlatively excel chickweed or groundsel, yet there

is no plant, however insignificant, however common, which has not its own

peculiar beauties and charms, and which would not be esteemed as a

marvel of design if others more beautiful were absent from the comparison.
     In the study of natural history young people may bring many objects

of the greatest interest under their notice. Here is a pet toad, which has

Ilived under my roof many years. It was the smallest toad ever saw,
Iwhen caught him in the woods where the Crystal Palace now stands.

He has done me much good service, by eating the insects which damaged
my plants ; and you see that he has now grown to reasonable proportions.

It is a matter of much interest to see this creature feed. When he

perceives an insect like a cockroach, he sits perfectly motionless, till, by
directing both eyes upon the creature, it exactly ascertains the distance,
when in an instant it darts out its head with an inconceivable rapidity
and swallows its prey. Now every creature, if attentively examined, will

be found to have its peculiar mode of feeding ; and really a large volume
might be written on this subject alone, full of the most curious

information.

Look at these beautiful Guernsey lizards, which astonish us by their
298                        APPENDIX.                        Xo. XXI.

rapid and graceful movements, and which we have opportunities of observing
by keeping them in my glazed plant-cases. Even fish may be brought
within the range of this kind of observation. Here is a very great
favourite of my family, a little fish from the Thames, called a Pope, who
has banished his natural shyness. The moment he sees us he comes up to
the top of the water to receive his accustomed food. By watching animated
beings, we find that everything possessing life has its own proper interest ;
for everything is beautiful. Even that which at first appears ugly and
deformed on a more intimate acquaintance is found to. be perfectly
adapted to its end, and endowed with the highest interest.

       The young ladies and young gentlemen who this day attend in our

theatre, have all of them their own different and particular objects to
attain; and should therefore make their knowledge subservient to a
different end. You are all of you the sons and daughters of persons
holding a good position in society. As for the youths, some of you will
be blessed with independence, and live upon the fruits of your own estates.
To you botany will be invaluable, for enabling you rightly to manage your
woods and fields. Mineralogy and geology will also be extremely usefiil,

to guide you to the knowledge of the qualities of various soils and of the

mineral products of the land. Others of you may be destined to be

merchants, and send your ships over every quarter of the globe. To
all of you a knowledge of the sciences will be an invaluable acquisition.
Some again will become engineers ; others will be manufacturers ; and
some will enter into the medical, legal, or clerical professions : but in every
path of life which any of you are likely to follow, the subjects which will
be taught at these lectures will certainly come into every-day use.
       The duties of the young ladies will hereafter be not less important,
though, perhaps, less stirring than those of the young gentlemen. Tour
knowledge of chemistry will enable you to conduct your households with
economy. In the sick-room, the knowledge of the laws of life will enable

you to comfort the afflicted ; and your knowledge of Nature and Nature's
works will render each of you a fitting mistress for your respective house-
holds, suitable teachers of children, and worthy companions for the

intellectual man.
     In your study of Nature you cannot but be deeply impressed with the
beauty of the objects which you must observe. You will find the most
              design in    theShfaakveosupreiatere'tsheimmemoorf taplhi"loSseovpehnicAagl esspe"cuislaatiofnittifnogr
marvellous
more than     2000 years.

monument to an unrivalled genius ; but in the Transactions of the Society

of Antiquaries for 1853 are many very interesting examples of the manner

in which the division of the life of man was anciently regarded. Of these

the following is a very remarkable composition. The original was written
in Hebrew 900 years ago ; and is especially curious from the states of man
at his different ages being compared in their characteristics to those of

various animals.

       " At the age of One Year he resembles a King on a Dai's, whom every

one kisses and adores.
       "  At  the age of Two or Three he resembles a Pig, routing in dirt.
       "  At  the age of Ten he capers about like a Goat.                   for  a
       "  At  Twenty, a Neighing-horse, he attires himself, and looks out

wife.
No. XXII.]                    APPENDIX.           299

"  After being  married, he is like an Ass (that is, burthened).         as
"  Having got   children, he must find food for them ; and is therefore

impudent as a Dog.
      " Grown old, he gets like a Monkey, but (this is) only the ignorant

man : whereas of the wise man Scripture says, ' King David was old '
(1 Kings i. 2). Old, but still a king." *

    I IIn the remarks which have made this day, would wish you clearly to
Iunderstand that do not expect all of you are to become professed chemists,
Inaturalists, or botanists ; nor in fact necessarily professors of any other
branch of natural knowledge.  have particularly desired to call your

attention to the value of natural knowledge to all classes of society. You

I Ishould esteem natural knowledge as indispensable to every gentleman; and
  feel sure that all the points which have reviewed for your consideration
should not be neglected by anyone aspiring to the title of an educated

IEnglishman.

          doubt not that there are very few of you who would not greatly
prefer these lectures to your ordinary school exercises. You must not,
however, neglect the tediousness of books for the pleasures of lectures.
Follow the study of languages, arithmetic, and of mathematics at school as

the most valuable aids to the understanding of natural knowledge; and

prosecute natural science as a guide for the conduct of your own affairs.

The study of Nature confers on you pleasure, honour, power, the means of

procuring wealth, of benefiting your fellow-creatures, and leads you to the

contemplation of the Sourc3 of All Good.

      The London Institution has given you great opportunities of instruc-

tion ; and if my discourse should determine any of you rightly to take

advantage of the benefits now offered, the words of my heartfelt appeal to
study Nature with earnestness and attention, will be engraven on your
minds to the latest day of your lives ; and you will rejoice that you have

been this day present at the London Institution.

                                  No. XXII.
ON THE NEW BANK OF ENGLAND NOTE, AND THE

     SUBSTITUTION OF SURFACE-PRINTING FROM ELEC-
     TROTYPES FOR COPPER-PLATE PRINTING. By ALFRED

      SMEE, F.R.S., Surgeon to the Bank of England. 1854.

I FEEL some delicacy in appearing before the Society of Arts upon a

matter of so much importance to the commercial community as the print-

Iing of the Bank of England notes ; nevertheless, from the part which
Ihave played in this matter, trust the members of the Society will not
Ithink that am exceeding my duty in bringing the matter before them.

    IIn the month of November 1851, had the honour of presenting a

report to Mr. Hankey, the Governor of the Bank of England at that

                                   ' Archzeologia.' vol. xxxv. 1853, p. 171.
              APPENDIX.  [No. XXII.

Iperiod, that from facts and observations which had come under my notice,
   believed that the time had arrived when surface-printing from electro-

types could be advantageously employed for Bank of England notes, and

that they could be both printed and numbered by ordinary printing-
presses, with considerable saving of expense and increased identity of

Iappearance. In presenting this report further stated that many difficul-
Ities presented themselves, and, therefore, would suggest that a trial be

permitted upon the cheque, and, when the production of this was brought
to perfection, we might carry on our processes upon the bank-note, with
such extended experience as the printing of the cheque might afford.

      Heretofore the notes and cheques of the Bank of England had inva-
riably been printed from copper and steel plates, in which the lines were
engraved or cut into the metal. Into these hollows the printers rubbed
the ink, which, in process of printing, was transferred from the plate to

the paper. In surface-printing the reverse state of things exists, as the

design, instead of being cut in the plate, is left in relief, and the ink being
applied to the eminences by means of the rollers, is transferred in the
press to the paper to form the impression.

      For plate-printing, a single cut with a graver forms a groove which
holds the ink. For surface-printing a line must be cut on both sides, and
equally finished on both sides. This materially increases the difficulty of
engraving, yet the difficulty simply resolves itself into one of labour, skill,

and expense.

    IHaving an original design, the means of multiplication must be per-

fect ; and here, although foresaw many difficulties, yet my electro-metal-
lurgical experience indicated that the perfection which the Bank required,
and the mercantile community demanded, might be obtained. With a

sufficiently excellent original and ample power of duplication, the very

important question which had necessarily to be solved was the capacity of
the surface press to give such a print as would serve our purpose.

     In plate-printing the paper is pressed into the grooves or design, and
there is no tendency of the ink to spread, but in surface-printing there is

a liability for the paper to be pressed round the edge of the letters, or,
from the pressure applied, for the ink to be spread over the margin, when
Ian extended print would be produced from the original design.
                                                                foresaw

that the success of surface-printing for bank purposes must depend upon

the power of the press to yield rapidly, perfect impressions. In this mat-
ter my expeiience was in a great measure founded upon the observation of
Ithe impressions of the 'Illustrated London News,' and periodicals of

similar character, when observed that even with their rapid production,

under the most unfavourable circumstances, at times we obtained, either

Ientirely or partially, perfectly sharp impressions, without any appreciable

lateral extension of the ink. From this concluded that it was only
necessary to study the conditions necessary to have a clear impression, and
in this matter surface-printing would rival plate-printing, and besides give
us all the advantages which are pre-eminently the characteristics of

typography.

     In accordance with this report, Mr. Hankey at once directed the

experiments to be commenced, and subsequently allowed me to act with
Mr. Hensman, the engineer, and Mr. Coe, the superintendent of printing ;
and though each of us had our separate departments in which our indi-
No. XXII.]  APPENDIX.  301

vidual labour and knowledge was most useful, we consulted together on
every matter, and by our mutual exertions, acting together to one end for
the benefit of the Bank, we have been enabled to overcome every difficulty,
and to bring the process into practical operation for all the manifold
varieties of cheques and notes which the Bank of England requires for its
purposes. Independently of the original idea, which was exclusively my
own, the responsibility of settling the various processes for carrying out
the system devolved equally upon Mr. Hensman, Mr. Coe, and myself,
but upon Mr. Hensman and Mr. Coe falls the labour of conducting the

operations.

      The original form or pattern of the various notes and cheques which

have been adopted, was accomplished and settled under the direction of
Mr. Hankey and the Court of Directors, before any of us commenced our

labours, and, though the particular manner in which the note was designed
added very materially to our difficulties, it was an imperative condition
with the Bank that we should in no way deviate from that design ; but we
were compelled to reproduce it exactly as designed, a condition which has
been so rigorously adhered to, that in only one case has any deviation been

made. In that instance the lines have simply been allowed to be somewhat
more open than in the original design, as it was found that even in the

original plate the work had been made so fine that the successful printing
could not be insured for large quantities.

       When we found that we were bound to copy implicitly designs
specially adapted to plate-printing, we almost despaired of success, for in
all other instances where surface-printing has been adopted, the design has

Ibeen suited to the nature of the printing. This difficulty, however, only

served as an incentive to further exertion, though must confess that as

we proceeded, step by step, we were by no means certain that we should
not be compelled to abandon some part of our original design. With the
exception of these stringent conditions, we were permitted to conduct our
operations entirely in our own way; and to the kind consideration of
Mr. Hankey, the late Governor, and Mr. Hubbard and Mr. Weguelin, the
present Governor and Deputy-Governor of the Bank of England, our
success must in a great measure be ascribed.

       The cutting of the original design is necessarily the basis of future
operation. The whole of the written part of the note was originally cut by
Mr. Beckett, the engraver to the establishment, but the Britannia was
designed by Mr. Maclise, and engraved by Robinson. This engraving was
the basis of our operations. After various experiments, the cutting of the
Britannia in a manner suitable for easy duplication was executed on a
steel die, by that veteran engraver Mr. Thompson, whose artistic feeling is
fully recognized by the public. The other parts of the notes and cheques

iwere in a great measure cut by Mr. Skirving, in some cases upon pieces of

brass, in others on plates of copper, about an inch in thickness. In no

case is the original ever employed for printing, but is simply used to make
moulds, so that, throwing out of consideration accidental mechanical or
chemical injuries, they will retain their integrity for any length of time
without change, and will enable any number of duplicates to be made
therefrom. From our inquiries, we have reason to think that there are
very few persons who have attained sufficient perfection to execute this
class of work in the manner which the Bank requires, but the finished
302                         APPENDIX.                         [No. XXII.

manner in which Mr. Skirving has executed his part of the work has met

with the highest approbation. It is the province of supply, however,
always to be equal to the demand, and therefore, if surface cutting
increases, we have no right to suppose there will be dearth of labour
or talent in that department of art.
     For the duplication of the original designs, we have recourse to the
                                                              For the
power afforded to us by the processes of electro-metallurgy.

purposes of the Bank of England, we have had recourse to the various
forms of battery apparatus described by myself in the ' Philosophical
Magazine ' for June 1840, and subsequently in my ' Elements of Electro-

Metallurgy.' "We employ, as a source of power, the platinized silver

voltaic battery, which many of the members of this Society may remember

Iwas brought under their notice some years ago. It was devised when
was a student of medicine at King's College, and resided in my father's
house in the Bank of England. With friends entirely devoted to other
Ithan scientific pursuits,  was placed in an awkward position by the
Idiscovery of the principles on which it was founded.  brought it here

unknown to any member, and after a long investigation a gold medal was
awarded for its invention. For fourteen years it has stood the test of

experience : and when we see that by its agency the plates of the maps of
the Ordnance Survey have for years been deposited ; when we see at the
present time that by it the types of the Bank of England notes and cheques
are formed ; and lastly, when amongst other purposes we find that it daily

Itransmits the power from the Observatory at Greenwich to indicate the

correct time in London, trust the Society, in consideration of its applica-
tion to these truly national objects, will not consider that their medal has
been altogether bestowed in vain.
     At the Bank we employ large batteries, in vessels holding several
gallons of the acid charge. The platinized silver plate is of fair thickness,

and the zincs are so arranged that they can be readily changed. The

purer we can obtain thick-rolled zinc, the more economically can we con-

duct our process, for then we are not subjected to the inevitable loss which

arises if tin, a very frequent impurity, is present. We are careful, for the

sake of economy, very thoroughly to amalgamate the zinc: in fact, we

prefer to repeat the process once or twice, that no local action may exist.
     For charging the battery we use dilute sulphuric acid, and generally
mix the fluids in the proportion of one-eighth acid to seven-eighths water.

It is convenient to adjust the mixture to a specific gravity of 1130, which
gives a strength suitable for battery purposes. A battery charged with
this liquid will last in action nearly three weeks before it is completely
exhausted; but practically, after it has done efficient duty from 7 to 14
days, it has become feeble, it exhibits the natural decay of old age, and we
generally respite it from further work and substitute a new charge, to
resuscitate its former life and vigour. When the battery is thoroughly

exhausted, the solution has a specific gravity of 1360, and contains 144
grains of zinc for every 1000 grains of bulk, if evaporation and conden-
sation have been compensated for by the daily addition of sufficient

water to make up the original bulk.

      To ascertain the changes which are occurring in the battery            we
                                                                             an
Icommonly employ an hydrometer; but have specially constructed               to
Iinstrument which call a battery-meter. The point corresponding
No. XXII.]    APPENDIX.                                               303

specific gravity 1130 is called unity, and the interval between that part and
1360 is divided into 144 parts. By this division every degree represents
one grain of zinc dissolved in 1000 grains of bulk of the fluid. The

opposite side of the scale, between the same parts, is divided into 60 parts,

each of which is, for every 1000 grains of bulk in the fluid, about y^j of
an inch in the thickness for every superficial inch of surface, upon which

the copper is reduced in the precipitating trough. In this division a little

allowance has been made for some local action of the zinc. By this
instrument we really weigh the zinc which has entered into combination
with the oxygen of the water in which it is subsequently dissolved. By the

attraction between the zinc and the element of the water the power is

produced wherewith the plates of the bank-notes are made, and this attrac-

tion differs not in kind from the attraction between the coals and air in

the act of combustion which gives us the power in the steam-engine. In

the electro-metallurgic battery, however, is perhaps observable the first
instance of the estimation of the primary change of matter, to determine

the amount of work actually performed. In the steam-engine the coals
burnt will not necessarily give us a satisfactory clue to the work done ;
and even in the animal, the most perfect of all machines, the food the
soldier eats will not indicate the number of miles traversed, or of the

enemy killed.

     In an application of the battery-meter we have an illustration of a law

which governs all physical phenomena. "Without a change of matter we
can have no physical force ; and all physical force is referable to a corre-

sponding change of matter. In our electro-metallurgic apparatus we obtain
an effect equal to the original change of matter within a very trifling per-

Ifcentage, a result which must be regarded as a glorious triumph of human
improvement.  by the use of the battery-meter these great laws are
popularized, and lead to a more universal reference of effect to cause, it
will amply repay any little trouble which has been bestowed upon it.
To contain the battery with its charge, we generally employ the best
salt-glazed stoneware. Strange as it may seem, no form of earthenware
permanently resists the attacks of the metallic saline solution. They pass
into the innermost texture of the material, and, even with vessels for
holding writing ink, disintegration eventually ensues. Upon the whole,

Iearthenware is preferable to glass, because it is less brittle, and trust that
the mention of the subject may lead some member of the Society to produce

a cheap material, as impermeable as glass, and as durable as pottery.

     At the Bank of England we generally find it convenient to employ

parallelopiped-shaped vessels. Those made of mahogany and lined with
gutta-percha are convenient and economical. For most of our purposes,
we use the vertical trough, because the subject can be readily inserted and
removed for inspection. For rapid deposition we employ the horizontal
trough, in which the subject is placed at the bottom, and the copper pole

above. In the use of this apparatus some refined chemical laws are in-
volved. In the first place, sulphate of copper possesses a low diffusive

power, and is carried, by virtue of that property, so slowly through the

fluid, that if we relied upon it failure would surely attend our labour.
Secondly, the saturated solution of sulphate of copper formed at the
positive pole is so heavy that it descends from the place of its formation,
like a cataract, to the bottom of the vessel. Lastly, the part of the solution
304  APPENDIX.  [No. XXII.

deprived of its copper becomes so light that it rapidly rises to the top.
For all rapid deposition we seek to form our new salt at the top of the
apparatus, that it may descend to the place where it is required, and
the light fluid may rise to mix with the denser portion. Practically, the
vertical trough is suitable for the purposes of the Bank; but however
important may be the requirements of this corporation, the laws of nature
are paramount, and will not vary to suit its convenience.

      Up to the present time the best standard salt for the reduction of
copper by electro-metallurgy, is the sulphate, and, with the occasional
exception of the nitrate, is invariably employed. We always have a neutral
trough containing a simple solution, three parts saturated. For general
purposes we use a saturated solution diluted with dilute sulphuric acid of
battery strength, to the extent of from one-half to one-third of the bulk.
We are careful to use recrystallized sulphate of copper, distilled sulphuric
acid, and distilled water, as all impurities are hurtful. For our positive
pole of copper it is very desirable to get good metal, and probably the
sheathing of the innumerable Russian vessels we intend to capture will
best serve our purpose, as the Russian copper is proverbially pure and free
from tin.

    If we regard the precipitating trough, we can but regard it as a very

curious and wonderful chemical laboratory, in which two processes are
being conducted at the same time, and in precisely equivalent proportions.
In it we have the best of all chemical factories for the production of
sulphate of copper by the combination of the plate of copper with the acid
of the salt, and in it we may perceive the most perfect of all foundries

wherein the metal is cast upon the mould atom by atom, with a skill which
rather shows the perfection of nature than the deficiencies of the opera-

tions of man.
      As a general rule we employ a single battery with one trough. Where

we desire rapid action, we employ a compound battery of two cells in
series, but this entails a double cost of battery power. In a great many
cases, where time is of no object, we employ a compound trough with a
single battery that is to say, we arrange two troughs in series with
one battery a contrivance whereby we use our battery power twice over,
and obtain two equivalents of copper, one in each trough, and consequently
at half the cost. This form of apparatus is no trouble to manage. We
have placed it in one of the iron safes for which the Bank is so famous,
and wires are carried through the wall to supply the electric power. Here,

unseen, and without labour or attention, the process goes on by night and

by day, on Sundays and holidays ; and when the deposit has acquired suffi-
cient thickness, the mould is taken out and the deposit removed.

       The deposited metal is of excellent quality, and a part of one of the

IBritannias, when carefully weighed, was found to have a specific gravity of

8 ' 85. To ascertain the ductibility of the metal, sent one of the scraps
to Messrs. Home and Thornthwaite, and one pound of metal was found to
be capable of being drawn into three and a half miles of wire.

       The authorities of the Bank are justly jealous of fire, and therefore we
have not been able to keep our rooms or solutions at an elevated tempera-

ture, which is very desirable for many purposes. It is far better that we

should be put to inconvenience, and our processes retarded, than that one
single document should be jeopardized by our operations.
No. XXII.]               APPENDIX.                                      305

After having procured suitable originals, with proper means of dupli-
cation, the next process which we have to consider is that of obtaining
rempemeaqrdpufeelio,rceytdaes.md,oitubWlwduhsti.ellintsWhgisurhitnentaker-ecpegetsrrhscaeahdrayuoarilitslghyiaenttmaillptlhloieistyemoidsfouinwtlodoiosldosb,hnlaoggcueuklrtdlteaaf-ibpdteeerdfcou,hrsaebtdyhietsahsegpeuspnorrpeooroncaselelsaysss
described   by Murray, who was rewarded by a medal
            is placed in the solution, and the copper    from the Society of
Arts. It
                                                         grows over it. All
blacklead is not equally good, and when it has remained in the air for
some time we find it advisable either to heat the blacklead or use a little
bisulphuret of carbon, or other volatile fluid, to drive off the adherent air.
      Occasionally, when we have metal originals, and are pressed for time,

Iwe employ clichee moulds, but we never employ them when they can be

avoided. The Britannia, have already stated, is engraved on steel, and

moulds are made from it by striking it upon pure soft lead, fixed upon

brass plates, by which process very perfect moulds are secured.
      For all our other originals, when we desire perfection, we rely upon

electro-moulds, and electro-moulds alone. For this purpose the original is
placed in the precipitating trough, and a thick electro-mould deposited.
IThere is very little risk of adhesion, and very little difficulty, with moderate
care, in obtaining a perfect mould.  need hardly mention that it would

be a serious matter to place the original on the wrong side, for great would
be the horror of the operator, on peeping into the trough, to see its costly
original to have wasted away, instead of receiving the deposited metal.
When the electro-mould is sufficiently thick, a wire is soldered to it :
it is waxed on the back and sides, and used for the deposition of the dupli-
cate. In the use of the electro-mould there is much risk of adhesion, which

Irequires skill to prevent. Sometimes we employ the film of air which
              described  in my ' Electro-Metallurgy   '
have already                                             sometimes  we  employ
                                                     ;

with good success the vapour arising from sulphuret of ammonia, a process

which has been specially devised for the purposes of the Bank. In both

these cases the moulds are inserted into the solution in a dry state,
and little bubbles of air are apt to adhere, and be carried down into the

Isolution, to the great detriment of our electro-cast. Upon pondering over
this inconvenience,      thought it would be desirable to have a process
whereby the mould could be inserted in a wet state. After some thought
and many experiments, it occurred to me that we might use the layer of
metal in the infinitely divided state in which it is employed in my battery.

IWith care many metals in that state will answer, but give the preference
Ito platina. When the process is carefully performed, have seen the most
perfect success attend the platinizing process. Nevertheless, commonly
enough, without care, we find that there is a liability for little adhered
drops of water to be carried down, which in the electro process have
Ibeen covered with metal, and the casts show slight indents, which are

fatal to success. Upon the whole regard this process as an addition
to our knowledge, and it is particularly applicable to deeply-cut wavy

line work.
The casts of the Britannia are generally deposited so thick in the
compound trough that they can be turned down to the required form and
size. Other subjects are generally backed with solder, and turned to their

proper thickness. In cases where the lines are very thin, and at the same
                                                                    X
306  APPENDIX.  [No. XXII.

time deeply cut, the metal must be aggregated very carefully, otherwise
the metal grows on each side of the holder of the mould, and a slit is

left down the centre of the metal. In some cases this would be a fatal
inconvenience, and, where it is indispensable to avoid it, we use a feeble
battery power, with a stronger solution of sulphate of copper in the pre-

cipitating trough.

     All depositions in electro-moulds require for the highest perfection
the utmost care. It would be tedious to the Society to dwell upon all the

little points which require attention. Nevertheless, with proper care, no
mode of duplication has ever been devised which is attended with similar

identity. In all our electro-casts, whenever the most trifling air-bubble is
found, it is thrown out directly, as the few halfpence required as the cost

of the deposit of a small quantity of copper is nothing as compared with

the supply of perfect notes to the public.

       Although circumstances have led me to study more especially electro-
metallurgic operations, yet it is important that electricity should take its
proper place, and not be pressed into our service on every occasion,

whether it be suitable or not. In the bank-note it was a matter of debate

whether in some parts the steel die and punch should not be used, but for
various reasons it was decided to use a steel original, with lead moulds, for
electro-casts. There are some cases, however, in which the punch-and-die
system, or even the transfer system of Perkins, might be advantageously
applied in the typographical art.

       The electro-casts, when ready for printing, are mounted on solid brass

blocks, and many tools had to be constructed for this purpose. In this

detail there is involved the difference between making and manufacturing,
the formation of one article and the production of an infinite number. By

this system of tools, if any part of a forme is damaged, another piece is
immediately inserted. The same screw-holes in the plate and the same

screws are used for the new piece ; and, by every portion being made to one

gauge, an exactness is given to the system which it would have been im-

possible to have obtained by leaving such details to the caprice or judgment
of the workmen. By this system every part of the note is maintained in
exactly the same relative position, and thus identity in the form of the note

is absolutely secured. At the Bank a large stock of electrotype plates are
always ready to be mounted at a moment's notice, and if one happens to be

accidentally damaged, another is ready for insertion in precisely the same
place as that which preceded it. The electro-copper is so durable that
there is scarcely any limit to its wear, and at the ' Times ' newspaper one
cast is said to have printed nearly 20,000,000, and yet not to have been
completely worn out. The limit to the duration of electro-casts for the
purposes of the bank-note has yet to be discovered, as above a million have
been printed with no perceptible effect. This duration alone is a matter
of considerable importance, as by it a constant identity is more particu-
larly insured.

       There is, perhaps, no part of the process of the manufacture of the
note of more importance, and more replete with curious interest, than the
production of the paper, by Mr. Portal, on which it is printed. The mill
is situated in Hampshire, on the river Test, and this beautiful stream

supplies the water to drive the machinery necessary for the production
 of the paper.
No. XXII.]                                   APPENDIX.                          307

The motive power of the mill is obtained from a turbine, an horizontal
Itwater-wheel, new to this country,          but much used in Belgium and France.

    is applicable to places where            the fall is either slight or great. It is
reckoned that by this contrivance from 70 to 75 per cent, of the whole force
is obtained, while the vertical breast wheel, which would have been required
for this   situation, would not have afforded more than
cent, of                                                          from   60 to  65 per
           the initial power. In using this turbine the           quiet  state  of the
water below the mill is not a little remarkable, for instead of the bubble
and boil, it is as smooth as at the mill-head.

      The new bank-note has a new water-mark, and the design which has
been adopted is attributed to Mrs. Wyndham Portal, who suggested the form
of water-mark which has been approved. These alterations in the water-
mark constitute an important part of the new note, and the tinting is
effected by means of Smith and Brewer's patent an invention which is
considered as a valuable addition to the mechanical appliances of paper-
making, and was rewarded by a medal at the Great Exhibition of 1851.
They have carried out their contrivances in the Bank. The essential part
of this process is the use of steel-faced dies, which are engraved with the
desired pattern, after which they are hardened, by being heated in leather
charcoal, and then suddenly plunged in water. These dies are used with
copper or tin forces in a stamping machine, to give an impression upon
plates of sheet brass, and these plates when embossed are filed on the back
to the requisite proportions, to allow the moisture of the pulp of the paper
to pass through the apertures. The different pieces of brass, when struck,

filed, and put together at the paper-mill, by Mr. Brewer, form the mould
for the paper, and are so arranged that each mould is designed for two pair
of notes.
In practice, great advantages attend the use of this patent. In the
first place, identity in the water-mark of the paper is secured, a matter of
no small importance when the subject of bank-notes is considered, and
moreover it is specially adapted to give gradations of tints, lights, and
shades, which, for the first time, has been introduced into the paper of the
BankIfowf eEncgolnatnradst
                            notes.  elegant  and  simple  method  of mould-making with
                              this
that previously adopted, the difference is sufficiently striking. In a pair of

five-pound notes prepared by the old process there are 8 carved borders,
32 figures, 168 large waves, and 240 letters, which have all to be separately
secured by the finest wire to the waved surface. There are 1056 wires,

67,584 twists, and the same repetition where the stout wires are introduced
to support the under-surface. Therefore with the backing, laying, large
waves, figures, letters, and borders, before a pair of moulds are completed
there are some hundreds of thousands of stitches, most of which are avoided

by the new patent. Moreover, by this multitudinous stitching and sewing
the parts were never placed precisely in the same place, and the water-

mark was consequently never identical. In this process we may detect

principles which are not only valuable to the Bank, but to all public
establishments having important documents on paper, as it affords to the

public one more test whereby they may readily discover the deceptions of

dishonest men.

      For the preparation of the paper, cuttings are selected from the finest
pieces of linen of the purest and whitest colour. These are carefully
308  APPENDIX.  [No. XXII.

dusted, placed in the machine, and reduced to pulp. This pulp is passed
through the finest strainer to the vat at which the paper-makers stand.
To insure as far "as possible identity even in the paper, Mr. Portal has put
up machinery constructed by Mr. Donkin, in which all the improvements
and adaptations heretofore adopted by machine paper are brought into
operation for bank-note papers. The mould is dipped by hand into the vat
of pulp, and a sufficient quantity taken up to make the note. This, as soon
as the water is drawn off', is passed to a man, who puts it on a blanket,
which slowly moves at a regular pace, and brings a new part into play for
each mould of four notes as they are made. After the notes are placed in

the blanket, they are carried under successive rollers till the water is

squeezed out, and the pulp acquires consistency. This part of the process
has performed the duties of the flannel and powerful press of the old
system. The paper then, instead of being removed by a boy, as in the old
process, is carried by machinery to the next part of the machine, where it
is dried by passing over warm cylinders. This part of the machine answers
to the old drying-room. When dry, it is spontaneously carried to the

sizing apparatus, where it is sized with the whitest and purest size, when it

is finally dried in the last compartment of the machine by passing over
heated cylinders. By all those processes which have been in use in those

machines which make paper by the mile, paper made by the hand mould is
dried, sized, and dried again in the short space of half-an-hour, instead of
requiring an interval of many days, as in the old process.

       Mr. Portal, however, does not so much look to the rapidity as he seeks
identity, for in all cases the pulp, being subjected to precisely similar con-
ditions, may be expected to afford precisely similar results.

      When the paper is dried, it is moderately glazed to give a smooth
surface for printing. Formerly the paper used invariably to be wetted
previous to printing, and a pretty-looking apparatus existed in the Bank
for wetting the paper, by excluding the air from a receiver with an air-

pump, and then allowing the water to rise and wet the paper. This wetting,
however, damaged and weakened the paper, and hence it was very desir-

able to take advantage of the power of surface-printing to be applied to
dry glazed papers. The smoothness is given by placing the sheets of

paper between plates of copper, and subjecting them to a pressure sufficient

on the one hand to give a fine and true surface, and yet not sufficient on

the other to damage the water-mark.

      When the paper is rolled, it is carefully inspected, and every damaged
sheet thrown out, for if any little speck remains it is liable to injure the
electrotype in the subsequent printing ; and, after one inspection, the
paper is re-inspected by two of the sharpest-eyed of the sharp-eyed
inspectors of the mill. The paper is then inspected as to its gauge, as
occasionally a sheet shrinks considerably in its manufacture. The paper
is again inspected to see that every sheet is placed with its face uppermost,
after which it is counted and packed up ready to be sent to Mr. Marshall,
the chief cashier of the Bank.

       These numerous processes of inspection are performed by females, and
they generally belong to families who have been engaged in the manufac-
ture of bank-note paper for 150 years. Each inspector is seated in a
green box, opposite to a north light ; but the ladies who have honoured

the Society with their presence this evening will probably think that the
No. XXII.]                    APPENDIX.                           309

Iinspectors are subjected to some torture when state that rigid silence is
expected in the room they sit in, and the whole number of females daily
perform their allotted duties without gossip of any description.
The strength of the paper made in the manner above described is very
tigsorebraeetnindwgehremniatdwweeeianckoetnrhseitdhemarantteihtreiawlsno,autliudtsreotshtoerferwtnhigsetehwbaiest.era-mcTtaourakbl,elyswutehresicttehhdaistbyncaoalccsuhilmaantpegldee
machine ; and a sheet of note-paper, although so thin, will always bear a
weight of fifty pounds,  and  sometimes as much
before it breaks.                                  as seventy-five pounds,

The printing-ink for the bank-note is also a matter which has re-
ceived attention. The properties of ink, when carefully prepared, are
very curious and require considerable judgment to adjust them to par-
ticular papers. To Mr. Winstone, the printing ink manufacturer, has
been entrusted   the preparation and adaptation
                somewhat careful treatment for      of  the ink for the note,
as it required                                     the  peculiar arrangement

of the blacks and lights in the note. The black colouring material is made
by burning coal-tar naphtha, and collecting the smoke in large rooms.
This smoke or lamp-black is placed in a retort, and heated to a high
temperature, to drive off all volatile matters, when the ink becomes con-
solidated and improved in colour. This is subsequently ground with a
suitable varnish to a proper consistence to rest firmly on the delicate
lines of the Britannia, without spreading to produce a rugged edge, and
yet completely fill the   black patches of
In the bank-note it is   also expected that  the   letters of the designation.
                                              the  ink should dry sufficiently
to allow handling immediately after being piinted, a property which Mr.
Winstone's chemical knowledge has enabled him to produce. To my mind,
whatever may have been the results heretofore attained, the typographical
art for rapid production has much to be improved by the adjustment of
the distributive machines to the ink, and the ink to the distributive
machinery. For the peculiar viscidity and tenacity of the ink, the weight
of roller and rate of motion should be adapted to the character of the ink.

At present no laws have been deduced upon this matter, but extended
experiments upon perfect work will, perhaps, eventually give us a know-
ledge of the relation which ought to exist between roller and ink.

    IIn my original proposition to the Governor of the Bank, suggested
that, in the first instance, the hand-press should be employed, because by
it the pressman could more perfectly manage the ink, and have everything
requisite for the adaptation of the typographical system to the bank-notes

before the selection of a printing machine was made. The authorities of
the Bank, however, determined, at the instance of Mr. Hensman and Mr.

Coe, at once to attempt the use of the machine, and these gentlemen made

an investigation of nearly every printing machine in use before the kind of

machine to be employed was selected. It was found that the machines in
greatest repute by the best printers were not sufficiently perfect for the
Bank, inasmuch as the type did not always fall in the same place in regard

to the tympan, a circumstance which interfered with the overlaying, so
necessary to fine work, and in no case was the inking apparatus sufficiently

good for this class of work.
      For the cheques they considered that the double platten was the best
machine which was in active operation at that time. For that reason a
310  APPENDIX.  [No. XXII.

machine by Hopkinson and Cope was adopted, and the cheques were
printed by it, as also some of the notes.

       For the other bank-note a new platten has been specially constructed
 by Messrs. Napier and Son, with contrivances for both the tables and the
 inking rollers to traverse, by which means an effect is produced equivalent
to rolling with a single hand- roller twenty different times. In this machine
 a plan of great value is employed, as the form of every note is made to
 one gauge, and every denomination has its separate tympan and over-
laying. By these means, when a note-plate is once made ready for
press with its overlaying, it is always ready at a moment's notice without
 further preparation for taking impressions. This appears to be a contri-
 vance which has added additional power to the system which, under the
 circumstances, well meets the requirements of the Bank.

       Counting machines are appended to each end of the machine, that no
impression can be taken without being registered ; and when 100 impres-

sions are printed, a bell strikes to call attention to the fact. In Napier's

machines 3,000 notes are printed per hour, and two boys are required to
feed with paper, and two to take off the printed notes.

       After the note is printed, as a part of the system, it was proposed that
it should be numbered and dated at the ordinary machines, instead of the
Bramah's machine heretofore employed. These machines are also double,
requiring two boys to feed and two to take off. By this working the note

is completed, and handed over to the cashier to be examined and counted.
By this part of the system, the note is decidedly superior to that of the

old ; the printing by the new process being very much improved as a mere
question of printing.

       Curiously enough, the numbering apparatus originally invented by
Bramah has been adapted, with the necessary modification, for the Napier's
gripper machine, with an improved inking apparatus.

      When the forme is arranged in the printing machines, the first act of
the printer is to obtain a perfectly level impression, equal in tint at every
part, which is accomplished by filing the back of the blocks wherever he

finds any elevation exists. This may be called a general picture, which
possesses the general appearance, but without the lights and shades which
give beauty and excellence to the impression. When the general picture
is obtained to the parties' satisfaction, four impressions are taken upon
thin paper, and, according to the gradations of tint required, the impression
is cut away, so that in one place no thickness exists ; in others one, two,
three, or all the thicknesses remain. For the darkest portion the four

thicknesses are left, for the lighter none are allowed, and for the inter-
mediate tints two or three thicknesses are left. The whole are then pasted
together and placed over the electrotypes, and, by the contrivance of the

overlaying, those parts which are desired to be darkest get the heaviest

pinch, those parts required to be of a lighter 'tint are the least heavily
pressed, and in this way the impression is in a great measure brought

to perfection

      Upon the trial of this overlaying little alterations are made, to bring

it to the utmost uniformity. In this part of the process much depends

upon the skill of the superintendent of the printing department, who has
the final examination, and when he is satisfied the printing is allowed

to commence.
No. XXII.]                APPENDIX.                                       311

       The time has long since passed away when scientific men would think

of attempting to devise an inimitable note. A note to be inimitable must
be made with a skill superior to the power of imitation of all men. The

doctrine of inimitability should be buried with that of the philosopher's
stone and the elixir of life ; nevertheless, certain properties are demanded

by the mercantile community, whereby a man may readily determine a

good note. In this matter constancy of appearance is of paramount
importance, and in this particular the new surface note stands pre-

eminent. The vignette is printed in every impression line for line invari-
ably the same. The same expression of face is constantly maintained ; the
same number of lines in one impression is visible in the second, and,

however many thousands of notes may be issued, not the slightest possible

variation within certain limits can exist. Moreover, the note is printed
with a similar ink, and the same tone of colour preserved, that the public

may be familiarised with a constant standard, and a uniform appearance
will be marked in their mind.

       Probably many of the members may recollect that the Society of Arts
many years ago very warmly entered into the question of inimitable notes,

and a very interesting little volume was issued by them on the subject.
Some of these proposals were remarkable from the intricacy of their
designs, but so far as the protection of the Bank is concerned no such
intricacy is required, as the Bank is never at a loss to detect a forged
impression, be it executed ever so skilfully, and the system pursued
by the Bank is so perfect that no forged note has ever escaped eventual

detection.
The doctrine even of difficult imitation is one which must be studied
by physiological principles, and must be considered in reference to the
Ifaculties of the eye and the properties of the mind. By actual measure-

ment have ascertained that the eye can see perfectly over a range of
2 18', which for twelve inches' distance would represent a space of half an
inch diameter. However, it has been ascertained by other philosophers
that an impression on the eye lasts for the one-tenth of a second, wherefore
it follows, to look over very carefully every part of a note, no less a time
than a third of a minute would be consumed, and probably in practice
three times as much would be required. As nearly 30,000 notes are daily
presented for examination, it follows that one gentleman must be employed

166 hours to inspect every single portion thoroughly. Practically, however,
the work is perfectly performed by nineteen inspectors, and therefore they
cannot enter into a minute and elaborate examination of every part of
every note, but only judge by the general appearance of all manifestly
good notes : and a careful examination of any one where there may be
             grounds for
prima facie  such causes  suspicion.   by  long  experience,    that any  extra-
       From
                          it is found
ordinary complexity is not only useless, but delusive and dangerous, from
leading the mind into details which cannot be successfully appreciated.
The labour and exhaustion produced by minute inspection of any very
fine work for any length of time is shown         by experience to be great,
and, though to the psychological surgeon it       presents many features of
intense interest, yet the limits of this paper   forbid me to enter into its

consideration.    of identity, there is also another  property  of the eye to be

     In speaking
                             APPENDIX.                                            [No. XXII.

considered ; for although there can be hardly any such thing as absolute

identity or likeness between any two objects, yet any objects which do not
differ more than four seconds will appear alike to unaided vision, though
I Iwith the microscope great differences may be discernible. Whenever, then,

throughout this paper speak of identity, refer to the identity observ-
able by the unaided sight : and after all it is but a rough comparative
identity, a mere vision of identity when examined in a philosophical point
of view. As far as the public is concerned, nothing can exceed the value
of a uniform appearance : this the new note affords in the highest degree.
                                                                                  will not vary.
Day  after  day, and   year  "aMfte. rMyaerasrh,atlhl e"  character of the paper
The  same   signature   of                                which appears in the    paper of one

note will be repeated in the next. The same wave lines, the same rough
edges on three sides, the same shadows in the water-mark will be brought
continually before the sight. The Britannia will have the same expression of
countenance, and will be repeated line for line, and dot for dot, for millions

of impressions unchanged and apparently unchangeable. The very weight
of the paper does not vary above two or three grains, unless damaged by
wear, and the colour of the ink will be maintained as far as possible. As
the stone is worn by water constantly dropping, so will the mind be
impressed with one uniform appearance. With these constant appear-
ances, the public should become familiar; and really in a country like

this, where the circulation of notes is so large, and the Bank has taken

such pains to secure identity, he that does not make himself acquainted
with the appearance of a genuine bank-note does not deserve to be its

possessor.
      To attempt to construct an unforgable or inimitable note would be a

mere delusion and snare. The public should know that everything which
has been made can be copied : and without due care, whether they are

numismatists, and look after Darics and Queen Anne's farthings, or
antiquarians, and collect old Bibles or ancient manuscripts; whether they
seek to buy gold-dust or sell precious stones ; whether they transact their
business by bills, notes, cheques, or coins, they are in all cases liable to
fraud and deception, and ever will be liable so long as evil remains in

the world.

      Bank-notes are perhaps as little or less liable to be falsified than most
other human inventions, in consequence of the certainty of the eventual
detection of the fraud, and the great risk of punishment from the care and

vigilance employed to trace out delinquents.

     All questions of fraud are amenable to certain principles, which, on
this occasion, it is not my province to consider. Whatever knowledge may

have been obtained upon this subject has been obtained at the Bank, and

Imay be regarded as the property of the Bank, which have neither the
Iliberty to communicate, nor am granted permission to discuss. At the

desire of the Bank, many experiments have been conducted upon chemical

Imeans of multiplication. Without entering into details, am led to

adopt a principle for the prevention of chemical changes ; namely, to put
the paper in the same chemical relation as the ink which we desire to
protect, and in this way we obtain security against change in both writing

ink and printing ink. In these experiments new fields for investigation
were found, but it is not in my power in this paper to enter into their

consideration.
No. XXII.]                              APPENDIX.           313

As far as the Bank is concerned, the new system has insured increased
excellence with diminished expense, but probably its adoption by the Bank
will lead to a far more important use in the arts. Since the printing of

the cheques, the Government have adopted surface-printing for the receipt
stamps, and more recently for their new bill stamps. For extensive pro-
duction and uniformity of expression, surface-printing stands pre-eminently
as the master. Although the daily production of the ' Times ' and the
weekly production of the ' Illustrated London News ' may justly be termed
the typographical wonders of the world, yet the care bestowed upon the note

to render its unlimited duplication perfect, has a tendency to materially
influence the printing art in this department in a beneficial manner.

    I IOne application of surface-printing, although disconnected with bank-

notes, cannot pass over in silence, as think the Society of Arts should
Irecommend the adaptation of surface-printing to the Ordnance Maps ; and

though am fully sensible of the difficulties which would attach to this
Inew system, and fully estimate the perfection of these plates, nevertheless
  feel persuaded that all difficulties may be surmounted, and every English-
man may be in a position to have a correct map of the land of his fathers,

Iat a price not exceeding that of an ordinary newspaper.

     In regarding the future operations of the Bank, cannot but think
that the results which have been described are the first step of the com-
Ifmencement, and not the end, of those improvements which will take place
in the production of bank-notes.        the use of the steam-press exceeded
my own propositions, yet in many respects the result has fallen short of

my anticipations.  Considering the great importance of a uniform note
Iof a certain standard of perfection, it was necessary to take the most

prudent course ; nevertheless cannot bring my mind to suppose that the
processes can possibly stop where they are. In the first place, the original
cutting of certain parts of the note will be far more highly finished than it
is at present when increased skill is brought to bear upon it. With regard
to the printing, hereafter, probably four, and possibly six or eight, will be

printed, and subsequently numbered, at a single operation.
      "We are all too apt to think that art will stop at our point, and not

progress, but it is the property of invention ever to move forward. The

point at which we have arrived must be the step from which future
improvements must spring, and, proceeding step by step, the highest

possible excellence will doubtless eventually be secured.
      There are certain characteristics which are common to the whole class

of Bank of England notes which should be known to all the world. In the
first place, every note has three of the natural edges of the paper, and one
             In  twhoerdcsent"reBaonfk                     water-mark composed of waved
cut edge.                               every note is  "a  are inserted in the substance of
lines, and  the                          of England

the paper at the upper and lower portion, with a facsimile of the auto-
graph of Matthew Marshall, the esteemed chief cashier of the corporation.

IThe Britannia is printed on notes of all denominations, and all notes have

the words " promise to pay the bearer on demand."
      The entire class of bank-notes include twelve genera, as each of the
eleven branch establishments issues notes with the town upon it, as
Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Leeds, Newcastle, Leicester, Bristol,
Portsmouth, Plymouth, Hull, Swansea; and these, with London, form

twelve establishments issuing notes.
314                            APPENDIX.                [No. XXII.

      Each genus comprises several species, as notes are of several designa-
tions. Thus, in London nine notes are issued, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100,

 200, 300, 500, and 1,000 notes. In every branch, notes are issued up

to 100 ; and at the two important commercial towns of Liverpool and
Manchester, notes of 500 are issued in addition. In every genus of note
the denomination up to 50 is placed in the water-mark in letters, and
twice in shaded figures.

     Every species of note is made up of innumerable individuals, each of

which has an individuality as distinct and determinate for a bank-note

as the individuality which characterises every human being, and also
characteristics as marked in the eyes of the Bank, to distinguish one

from another, and no more likely to be mistaken than our chairman is

likely to be mistaken by you for our secretary, even when you are not so

perfectly familiar with their likenesses. This individuality is given by a

number and date being added to the denomination. The number is of no

use alone, the date is of no use alone, but the number, date, and denomina-

tion together conjointly mark the specific individual; and any person

having these particulars can learn at the Bank to whom the note was
issued, and when it was issued, the date of its return to the Bank, and the

person to whom money was paid for it, with many other matters of its

pedigree and family history, which are only objects of interest to its
mother, the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street.

     It is not generally known to the public that there are two letters

preceding the numbers on every note, and which, with the number, tells

the whole story of the note. Therefore, if the public will but take down

the letters and numbers, they can learn every other particular on applying

Ito the Bank.                                           find, in casting them
      To give an idea of the extent of our operations,
up, that there are sixty-six kinds of bank-notes, and about fifty varieties

of cheques, which had to be prepared. Besides these, there are twenty-five
kinds of bank-bills, issued from eleven different places, independently of
sixty day -bills, and various matters which would not be interesting to the

meeting, further than to show that the Bank has not merely adopted

surface-printing to a bank-note, but to all similar documents of a similar

character which they require.
     Had time permitted, it would have been interesting in this paper to

have considered the progress of typography, and traced, step by step, the
successive improvements which have taken place before it could have been
adapted to Bank of England notes. In such an investigation we must
commence with Tung-Taou, A.D. 924, who appears to be its first inventor.

From the works of the Chinese and Japanese we should pass to the Biblica

Pauperum ; the illustrated Bible of the period, printed by blocks, between
1420 and 1470. Then we should consider the movable types of Caxton,

and works printed by this benefactor of the human race. Upon exami-

nation of the choicest specimens of Faust, Schoeffer, and Caxton,

Shoensperger, and other great printers, we find that even at the beginning
of this century, when Baskerville, Didot, Bensley, and Bodini, produced

their finer specimens, surface-printing, as at all adapted to the present

form of the Bank of England note, was only in its earliest infancy.

    If we examine forms of notes printed by typography, we shall observe
that the note of the Bank of France and the Belgian note are so produced,
No. XXII.]                   APPENDIX.                                                                     315

but in these cases the character of the note is adapted to the style of

printing, and even there the number printed is so small as to appear
insignificant when compared with the number issued by the Bank of

England. At the former establishment about 300 impressions are printed

every day; at the latter, nearly 30,000 are produced, as 9,000,000 notes

Iare issued per annum, representing nearly 300,000,000 of money.
          remember, when a boy, the waggon-loads of machinery which were
carted away from the Bank, which had been used for the production of the

Ifour millions of one-pound notes, which had been printed and never issued.

Of these cannot learn that one exists as printed for circulation, and the
character is so different, that it throws but little light upon the application

of typography to the present note. The same observations which apply to

the suppressed one-pound note apply equally to the paper-duty stamp,

which is familiar to every stationer.
      When we consider the great difficulties which the peculiar water-mark

of the bank-note paper has entailed, it never could have succeeded had we

not applied a very much improved inking apparatus, assisted by the
excellent composition rollers of Messrs. Harrild, the whole being materially
helped by a totally novel method of preparing the forme for the press. As
far as my examinations have gone, the typography of our cheapest periodi-

cals far surpasses in sharpness of impression the very choicest efforts of

preceding ages.
      The theory on which my report was founded was deduced from a

multitude of facts, and the result has proved that inductive reasoning has

not deserted us when brought into practical operation.
      The examination of typography has strikingly shown that invention is

rather due to the period than to the man ; and as those who have gone
before have taken advantage of the inventions of our predecessors, and

again we in turn have received the benefit of their labours, so our suc-
cessors will use our experience as a stepping-stone to attain their results.

    If we examine the note through its different stages, we cannot help
being struck with astonishment at the care which has been taken to protect
the public from imposition. In the manufacture of the paper every sheet
must be accounted for, and the Legislature has wisely provided that no
                             owfortdras n"spBoarntaktioofn,Enmgalyanmda"nuifnacittusresu, bsstealln,coer,
person,    under   the pain                                                                                expose
for sale,   paper  with the
                                                                                                           or any
curve bar lines, or any denomination in writing. When it is received in
the Bank, it is again counted and arranged by a decimal system, tinder the
care of the treasurer, before it is stowed away. When issued to the printer,
the same number must be handed over to the treasurer; and when it

receives its final imprint and is converted into the representative of money,
it is received by the cashier, who again examines and counts the number.
These perfect notes are deposited in a place of security till life is given to
them, by being carried as a credit into the Bank books. When it passes
into the hands of the public, it is amenable to laws which are known to

the authorities of the Bank. Each denomination has a different average
duration of life, like individuals in different cities, and some are never
heard of again, like people who go to foreign lands, and their fate ever
remains unknown. When the note returns to the Bank, after inspection,
it dies, never to be resuscitated. The signature is torn off, the denominations
are punched out, and it becomes a piece of waste paper. The registry of
            APPENDIX.  [No. XXII.

its death is taken by a system devised by my brother, Mr. William Smee.
This system, which is remarkable for its simplicity and rapidity of
execution, has been in use with great success for many years, and those

who are partial to the details of scientific book-keeping will discover many
devices of interest, but which it is foreign to the purposes of my paper to
consider in detail. After the death of the note is registered, it is then
deposited in the vaults for reference for ten years, when it is burnt. The
object for retaining the notes for so long a period is exclusively for the
accommodation of the public ; for although such a course entails a very
considerable cost to the Bank, yet the value of the information which is
daily being supplied from this cause, shows the importance of it to the

monetary community. It is not an easy matter to utterly destroy so large

a number of notes as those which are issued by the Bank. Experiments

have been tried to reduce them again to pulp, but they have never

altogether succeeded, and no plan answers so well as their destruction by

fire. A large iron cage is built in the middle of the yard, including a light
brick furnace pierced with holes. In this cage the notes are placed and

burnt by sackfuls at a time, and nothing is left but a little white ash.

Formerly the paper was coloured with smalt, and this was left at the

bottom of the furnace as a curious blue mass. The same care which is

taken in the manufacture of the paper, and in its transition through its
various stages, is maintained to its final destruction, so that from the linen

pulp to the cinder, no person can become possessed of a single sheet without

Icommitting a felony, immediately liable to detection. As the final result

of the changes bank-notes undergo, am enabled to show you a piece of
the blue ash, a portion of the white ash, and a curious mass resembling
peat, which arose from the conversion of a number of bank-notes into

Ia peculiar substance from years of exposure to wet and pressure.

     In bringing this paper to a conclusion, am fully sensible of its defects,
and regret that so important a subject should have been treated in a much

less efficient manner than the members of the Society have a right to expect.
The original intention was simply to have described surface-printing from

electrotype for the purposes of the notes and cheques of the Bank of

IEngland ; and if a wider scope has been given to these remarks, trust
that they have not been found tedious to the members of the Society, nor
Ifhave been altogether uninteresting to the mercantile community.
                                                                   here-

after the adoption of this system of Bank of England notes shall have

Ibeen found to be beneficial to the arts, shall feel amply rewarded for
Ithe anxious thought and labour which have bestowed upon it a feeling

which is equally experienced by Mr. Hensman and Mr. Coe, who have,

from the first, made every exertion to bring the system into successful

operation.
.No. XXIII.]         APPENDIX.                                           317

                                  No. XXIII.

THE MONOGENESIS OF PHYSICAL FORCES. A LECTURE

      DELIVERED AT THE LONDON INSTITUTION, FEBRUARY 18TH,
      1857. By ALFRED SMEE.

IN our intercourse with Nature and natural phenomena, we, each of us,
according to the peculiarity of our minds, view the same phenomena in a
somewhat different manner; some of us perceive more vividly by our
organs of sensation, whilst others with less powers of perception store up
facts more accurately. Some generalize simple facts into extensive laws,
whilst it is permitted to a few to compare and bring into relation nume-

Irous generalizations at first sight apparently distinct. From this diversity

in the powers of the human mind, have always strongly felt that society
is benefited by each person unfolding the impressions which his own

mind receives, as by that means all are made acquainted with the various

aspects from which external nature may be viewed.
This evening it will be my endeavour to carry out the suggestion, that

Ithis year the soiree lectures should be undertaken by amateurs, and chiefly
by the managers of your Institution.        have chosen for my theme the
I' Production of Physical Forces,' and this lecture will be a cursory glance

of that view of natural phenomena which published in the year 1843, in
Ia work entitled ' The Sources of Physical Science,' and which constitutes

one of that series of metaphysical works which have made it the business
of my life to develop from Nature. Some of these views you have done me

the honour on former occasions to allow me to unfold in this room ; and

Ifrom the kind manner in which you received those speculations, venture
to hope that you will neither be surprised nor offended in my submitting

Ithis view of Nature, especially as have myself practically applied it for a
Iperiod of fourteen years in the ordinary transactions of life, and trust

not altogether without some advantage to the public.
We live in a material world, but we can neither make nor destroy

matter. However many times matter may be combined or acted upon by

matter, it remains the same in amount ; and even when it is so changed
that it possesses no vestige of its former state, yet it is neither increased

nor diminished.

When our great poet in his lofty flight says

                 "  Imperious Caesar,       dead and turned to clay,
                    Might stop a hole       to keep the wind away ;
                                                                      "

the change is not more wonderful than the daily transmutations in our
manufactories, where offensive offal is converted into beautiful pigments

for the dresses of our fairest daughters, and noxious residues are changed

into exquisite flavours for sweetmeats.

     In every case in which we observe matter, we notice that it possesses
                                            drawn together or mutually attracted.
a power whereby two  apolarwti,on"sThaaret  whatever attracts is matter, and what-
From this we deduce
ever cannot attract is not matter." To my mind, attraction is an inherent
318                       APPENDIX.                           [No. XXIII.

property of matter, which it has possessed as long as matter has existed,
and will possess till matter ceases to exist, by the fiat of an IMMATERIAL

POWER.

     We know not how far matter is divisible, because we can readily
separate it into particles far below what our senses can appreciate ; never-
theless, it is convenient to assume that matter is divisible into definite

particles which can no longer be divided, and hence called atoms. We

know not, moreover, how many kinds of matter there are, or whether there

is more than one kind. It by no means follows because we cannot decom-

pose the so-called sixty elements that they are separate bodies. We must
remember that it is possible, as every element has a different combining

number, that each may be only a number of atoms attracted together so
firmly as to resist our powers of separation. These considerations are
entirely within the boundary of speculation, and not at present of fact;
yet this view meets all the known facts of the case, and when two theories,
equally expressing all the circumstances, are offered for our consideration,

it is more consistent with natural science to choose that which involves
the fewest hypotheses. One of the most subtle divisions of solid matter is

to be found in the black pulverulent state of metals, such as employed for

my form of battery. It has been supposed that all matter is black when

extensively divided, because the particles are too small to reflect light ; but

the form of the black particles is unknown to us, because the highest

powers of the microscope are insufficient to render them visible to the eye.

At the last Bakerian lecture Professor Faraday made known methods for

dividing gold to an extreme amount. He precipitates the metal from its
solution by bi-sulphuret of carbon, and obtains a ruby-coloured liquid, in

which metallic gold is so minute that the particles are invisible by any

microscopic power. This distinguished philosopher satisfied himself that
the ruby glass owes its colour to gold in a metallic state in an infinite

division, and by adding gelatine to the ruby solution he obtained a ruby

jelly precisely similar.
     Ultimate particles of matter are aggregated or attracted into masses,
of which we may observe many varieties. Look at ice : how different is its
appearance at different times ; and in our electro-metallurgic deposits,
where we build up our objects atom by atom, we obtain many very different
Ikinds of aggregation. The copper electrotype from which the Bank of

England note is printed, is so excellent, that a portion tried was found
capable of being drawn into three and a half miles of wire, whilst under
certain circumstances copper deposited breaks with a conchoidal fracture

with the greatest ease.
      We are ignorant whether there is any difference in the mode of attrac-
tion between the ultimate particles of solid, fluid, and gaseous particles;
but having regard to the entire range of physical knowledge, we may
assume that the particles are most firmly attracted in the solid, and more
in the fluid than the gaseous state, as by different amounts of attraction we
Iobtain the difference between the solid and gaseous states.
                                                              have specu-

lated whether one atom might not by itself have boundless expanse, and
fill the firmament a limitation of extent being due to the attraction
between two or more atoms of matter.
      Masses of matter aggregated together still have the power of attract-

ing each other into one uniform mass, by adhesion, as when two pieces of
No. XXIII.]  APPENDIX.  319

lead or glass are brought into contact they mutually adhere, and some-
times greatly to the manufacturer's discomfort.

      Liquids and solids in contact have a power of mutual attraction, as in
capillary attraction.

      Gases and liquids have also this power of attraction, as in the case of
muriatic acid gas and water.

    I will now show you a very beautiful experiment, proving that attrac-
Ition is existent between gases and solids. Some years ago discovered

that coke or charcoal might have so much hydrogen firmly attracted to it,

Ithat when plunged into solutions of gold, silver, or copper, an extensive

deposition of metal takes place, and have found that it would retain the
gas for many days.

      Attraction is also exerted between gaseous bodies, according to the
law of diffusion so elegantly developed by Graham ; and even carbonic acid
(a very heavy gas) passes into the atmospheric air.

       Lastly, liquids attract each other by a law very similar to that of the
diffusion of gases.

       Hitherto we have considered the attraction of particles of matter in
indefinite quantities, or of the attraction of masses already aggregated;
but particles of two or more different kinds of matter may be attracted to
produce a totally new substance, having none of the properties of former
particles : thus chlorine and sodium form common salt ; oxygen and

hydrogen, water.

      Attracted matter, either in masses or in the most attenuated particles,
attracts other masses at any distance, and by this power of gravity every-
thing in the universe is kept in position ; to this power the sun, the moon,
the earth, the stars in the firmament, and every substance in the world,
owes its position.

      In the cases of attraction already described the power appears to be
exercised promiscuously, but there are cases in which attraction is exerted
in definite directions. Crystals are masses of attracted matter of this

character, as their particles are attracted unequally in different directions.

In consequence of this they yield to mechanical force in some directions,
not in others; they expand unequally by heat, they are acted upon

unequally by magnetism, and they have very curious properties in relation
to light. Not only in crystalline bodies do we obseKve that attraction is
exercised in a definite direction, but we observe a direction in the power

of attraction during the magnetic state. A bar of iron, when it suddenly

assumes this state, appears to have its former attractions altered, for under
favourable circumstances it will sound a distinct musical note. When a

 magnetic body attracts another body capable of assuming the magnetic
 state, the second substance also evinces a similar direction in the exercise
 of the power of attraction. From these views we deduce that the idea of
 magnetism is derived from certain kinds of matter, under certain circum-
 stances, evincing the power of attraction in a definite direction.

        We have considered the mode in which attraction acts to xinite
 particles of matter, and thus construct the various objects of which the
 material universe is composed. Now let us pause to consider the earth at
 rest. The quiet which gives the loveliness to evening, and soothes the
 mind after the business of the day, forms but a dim shadow of that awful
 quiet which would exist were attracted matter not capable of being acted
320           APPENDIX.                                          [No. XXIII.

upon, when there would be neither heat to cheer, light to gladden, sound

to enliven, nor motion to excite.
     Nature, however, abhors quiet, and delights in action. In every case
where attraction is exerted, it can be destroyed by a new attraction ; and

thus, whilst attracted matter exhibits cohesion, composition, and position,

so a new attraction can cause disintegration, decomposition, and motion.
Hence we deduce the law, " that a new attraction can destroy a former

attraction."

     For a study of the effect of a new attraction acting upon attracted
matter, the voltaic battery stands forth pre-eminently as an instrument
well calculated to exemplify the phenomenon. For a voltaic circuit it is

essential to have a fluid compound built up of two atoms only : this com-
pound is decomposed by any matter either in a solid, fluid, or gaseous
state capable of setting up a powerful attraction between itself and one
element of the compound : this is the positive pole. The second element

is evolved at the negative pole, and the two points may be connected

together by matter extending for miles and miles; a fact on which

depend the electric clock and telegraph. In a, single batteiy there is but
one point at which the new attraction is excited. In the compound bat-
tery there are as many points as there are cells in the series. A single
voltaic batteiy may act through a series of similar troughs, provided that

Iin these secondary troughs the tendency to destroy the former attraction
is nearly equal to the tendency to maintain it.  place before you an

example, in which one battery is reducing gold, silver, copper, tin, lead,
iron, zinc, in separate cells, having solutions of the positive poles of those
metals. In this case, one grain of zinc in the battery reduces 6i grains of
gold, 3 of silver, 3i lead, 1^ tin, 1 copper, -^ of a grain iron, these being
the relative weight of one atom of each of these metals.

     By the voltaic battery, especially if we employ the platinized silver

battery, as is now almost invariably used for heavy work, we obtain results
equivalent to the original attraction within a very trifling percentage, a
result which must be regarded as a glorious triumph of human skill. On

Iaccount of this perfection of result have been enabled to construct an
Iinstrument which call a battery-meter, in which every degree shows that
a grain of zinc has entered into combination and become sulphate of zinc.
By this we can tell the amount and thickness of metal reduced in our
precipitating trough. This instrument is the first instance in which man
has estimated work done by the primary attraction or source of power. In

Ithe steam-engine the coals burnt do not point out so accurately the result

obtained ; and have elsewhere observed that even in the animal, the most
perfect of all machines, the food the soldier eats will not of necessity
indicate the number of miles traversed, or of the enemy killed.
     This instrument was designed for the Bank of England. Ton are all

doubtless aware, that upon my proposition the entire system of printing

the Bank of England notes has been changed, and that they are now

printed from the surface : a change which has contributed so much to give
identity to the note. The original dies are cut in copper, steel, or brass ;

from these, moulds are made, which again are electrotyped to make the
cast for printing. The battery-meter, placed in the battery, shows us the

Ithickness of our deposited metal in the trough; and though our prac-

tised eye enables us to dispense with extraneous aids, can but think
No. XXIII.]                      APPENDIX.                                                                 321

this little instrument is a very beautiful practical application of pro-
found physical laws.

     The cause of all voltaic phenomena is referable to a new attraction,
     awfhiegnurathtiivseisexopprpeossseiodn,byisob"satacdleessirteenfosironactiisonmuanngifreasttiefide.d
and                                                                                                        Tension, to
use                                                                                                        ;" and thus,

as soon as the tension is increased, or the obstacles are diminished, action
results,   and   disintegration, decomposition, or  motion occurs.
          was   from the long-continued and close   study of the voltaic                                   battery,
     It

requisite to enable me to write my treatise on ' Electro-Metallurgy,' that
I was led, step by step, to develop the system of physical philosophy
Iupon which this lecture is based.  could, therefore, tarry and dwell upon
Ithis beautiful instrument, did not remember that on this evening it will

be my endeavour to compress into one lecture a slight sketch of the entire

range of physical phenomena.

     Passing from the study of the action of a new attraction upon binary
fluid compounds, we may next, with advantage, consider its effect upon
solid substances, or substances under the attraction of aggregation, and

the electrical machine is well adapted for this purpose. In this case, force

is applied to a solid body, whereby tension far exceeding that which is

readily obtainable by a voltaic battery is manifested. Whenever the

electrical machine is excited by any force, the origin of that force is due

to some new attraction, and hence the new attraction is the primary cause
of the electrical tension ; and when this is increased sufficiently, or the

obstacles decreased, action ensues by a destruction of attractions, such as

disintegration, decomposition, or motion, and is frequently accompanied

by light, heat, and sound.

     From the above views, the mind is led to suppose that electricity is

not an immaterial essence, imponderable, or spirit attached to matter, to

which the effects are due ; but that the phenomena of electricity are

entirely owing to the action of a new attraction upon matter aggregated or

composed by former attractions.

     By frictional electricity we can trace how repulsion is a phenomenon
of attraction, and not an inherent power of matter ; as by electricity we
can readily suspend some of the numerous forces by which any body is

held in position, when it moves in the resultant of the others. Two balls
suspended close together, when similarly electrified, appear to repel each
other ; but in reality they are attracted to surrounding objects.
     Carry the reasoning one step further, we find that which we term a
positive or negative electrical phenomenon is due to the direction in which
the new attraction acts, and this direction is analogous to the polarity of
the magnet or the condition of the electrolyte in the voltaic battery.
     Passing from the known to the unknown, we may glance at the
thunder-cloud, the awful grandeur of which must for ever appal the
human mind. From the dense black masses of clouds which usually
accompany this grand natural phenomenon, we have seldom an opportunity
Iof observing that which is taking place ; yet on one occasion, on                                         Forest

Hill, saw that which probably is the cause of the electric action.                                         It was

a damp day in June, and there had been much rain previously (the entire
sky being covered as it were with misty clouds, through which the sun was
seen in an obscured form). Suddenly, without warning or the slightest
apparent reason, clouds aggregated above our heads so rapidly, thnt
322  APPENDIX.  [No. XXIII.

within five minutes we were in comparative darkness, when the most
terrific flashes of lightning occurred, accompanied with peals of thunder.
This was followed almost simultaneously by enormous hailstones, so thick
that we could scarcely see a few yards before us. We had great difficulty
in proceeding to the nearest house, which was scarcely a hundred yards,
and it was only after incessant ringing, that one of the inmates ventured

out to open the gate to give us shelter.

     In this case there was manifestly an instantaneous and rapid deve-

Ilopment of new attractions in the aggregation of aqueous vapour into

large hailstones, and believe that aggregation of vapour acting upon
the attracted matter of the clouds is the true source of the electric

development.

    IThe sublime phenomenon of the thunder-cloud have watched as it
Iplays over the ocean's bed ; have been in the midst of it at the top of the
Imountain, have seen it hovering over the lake, and heard the thunder

reverberate from shore to shore of the castle-bearing hills of the Rhine,

yet it is worthy of mention that in no place has it been so grand as in this

Circus during the stillness of night. Here we have a multiple echo, and
when the cloud is overhead, the crash is reverberated from side to side with
a majesty unequalled by any other natural phenomenon, and which well
marks the power which is acting during the electric discharge.

      The capacity to produce action is called force, and, whenever a new
attraction is set up, force results. Force differs from tension in being
able to do that which tension is prevented, by a resistance, from accom-
plishing. Any kind of attraction gives rise to force. The attraction of
gravitation, capillary attraction, the attraction of aggregation, or of
chemical affinity, will produce force.

      When a new attraction is exerted, the force emanating therefrom may
be propagated through aeriform bodies, when it is termed pneumatic

force ; through fluid bodies, when it is called hydrostatic force ; through

Isolid bodies, when it is called mechanical force.

        have heard it stated that whenever force is generated it is never

annihilated. To such an extraordinary proposition my system not only
gives an unqualified denial, but points out the manner in which force

comes to an end. However long it may endure, however many bodies it

may pass through, its final action is to destroy some pre-existing attrac-
tion, and either disintegrate, decompose, or move previously attracted

matter.
       The resistance of matter under attraction to a new attraction leads to

the production of various phenomena. Under certain circumstances, that
which we call heat is evinced. For heat, it is necessary that a resistance
to the new attraction should be afforded by the pre-existing attraction.

In the voltaic circuit, if any part is contracted heat is manifested, and in

this way water may be boiled, or platinum (one of the most infusible of
substances) may be made to fuse like wax. Mechanical force causes heat,
when applied to solid bodies ; and whenever attraction acts with sufficient
energy upon attracted matter, heat results. Where we require intense
heat we must employ an intense new attraction on an intense aggregation,
and hence every practical man uses light or strong coke according to the
intensity of heat he requires. Whilst heat exists, the new attraction is
merely attempting to destroy other attractions, and the force may be
No. XXHI.]                  APPENDIX.                              323

transferred to any other body : by conduction, that is, through bodies in

contact ; or by radiation, that is, to bodies at a distiince. In every case

where heat ceases, either the new attraction ceases to exert itself, or the
former attraction is destroyed, and disintegration, decomposition, or motion
is the result.

    ISome difficulty is presented to our knowledge of the actions and re-

actions which constitute heat, but, upon the whole, am inclined to
think that heat is best described as that action of matter which from
a distance influences the nerves of sensation in the skin, or, in other
words, heat is that which is felt from a distance by the skin.

There is another range of actions and reactions which are not
appreciated by the skin, but are alone seen by the eye. This range is

termed light, and by the prism we are enabled at once to distinguish that
which is seen by the eye, or light, from that which is not seen by the eye.
Chemistry indicates that there are actions both more refrangible than the

violet ray on the one hand, and less refrangible than the red on the other.
For the production of light the new attractions must be of the most
powerful kind, so that they may act with great intensity upon matter

attracted, and it is preferable to be in a solid state. The inflammation

of hydrogen gives little or no light : add solid matter, and a beautiful

light is the result. Hydro-carbons give us the most convenient light

when they are burnt with such energy that the solid matter is first

deposited to be acted upon by the new attraction, and subsequently burnt

that it may yield no smoke ; if all is burnt at once, so that no solid matter
remains in the flame, light will not be produced. An illuminated body may

communicate the force which is seeking to act upon the solid matter to

other bodies, and finally decomposition, disintegration, or some destruction

of attraction takes place.
As the skin feels heat, the eye sees light ; so, by the ear, are we made

acquainted with the actions and reactions constituting sound. The

vibrations constituting sound have been accurately measured by philo-

sophers ; and though different people differ in the power of appreciating
the higher and lower notes, it may be generally stated that all vibrations
from 8 in a second to 24,000 are appreciated by the ear, and are conse-

quently sound.
      Sound, like light and heat, requires attracted matter : this is acted
upon by a new attraction, and in the conflict between the old and new
attractions vibrations ensue ; whilst the vibration continues, the force may
be propagated to other matter which may also take on vibrations.
I have always thought that odours constituted a further range of
Iactions and reactions.     am the more confirmed in that view, the more
I watch those animals, as the bloodhound, which have the nerves of the
nose highly developed. Upon this matter, however, we are much in the
same position as the man born blind, who can only receive his ideas of
light through the medium of the eyes of others, for man has literally only
a rudimentary nose, if it be compared with that of other animals.
    IA theory is not to be a mere mental creation, but a law or principle to

guide our actions and bring forth fruit. The law which have developed
is so pre-eminently of practical application, that every human action may
be regulated by it. When we desire to obtain any result, we begin by
generating new attractions. For this purpose we select substances
                                       Y2
324                           APPENDIX.                                                        [No. XXIII.

the lowest equivalent, because the least weight would answer our purpose ;

hydrogen and carbon have the lowest equivalent, and coal being an hydro-
carbon, is that matter which is pre-eminently adapted to combine with

oxygen, the  more especially  as the product of the new attraction is readily
dissipated.                    zinc with coals, we find that it has an equiva-
             If we compare
lent eight times higher, and its energy of combustion with oxygen is

perhaps not more than one-third that of carbon : moreover, the cost of
zinc is forty times dearer than coals ; consequently, as a source of power,
zinc would be 960 times dearer than coals.

     Our theory thus indicates why we select coals for light, heat, motion,
and chemical changes, instead of zinc ; and this difference of cost prevents
the voltaic battery, the most perfect human device, from universal

application.

     In animals the hydrogen and carbon in the food they consume is the
source of power, and the horse without hay and oats is as powerless as the
steam-engine without coals or the battery without zinc.
      Starting with the new attraction of hydrogen and carbon, with oxygen
as a source of power, we must take care so to apply it upon attracted
matter, that we may produce, according to our necessity, heat, light,
motion or electricity ; for it would not be difficult, in fact it constantly
happens in practice, for one variety of force to be produced when another
is desired, and whatever is thus improperly generated is wasted.

     In physics and physiology, in mechanics and medicine, facts, no less

than theory, declare that no effect occurs without material cause, that
no initial change takes
there is but one source ;  pinlacfeacwt iathcooumt peleqtueiva"leMnot norgeesunlets, is  and   in   all cases
                                                                                           of  all  Physical

Forces."

     In consequence of the " Monogetic Origin of Physical Forces," each
possesses within itself the power of a new attraction, which, according to
the amount of the initial change, can produce an equivalent or relational

amount of any other force. Electricity may produce light, heat or motion.
Motion may produce heat, light, electricity ; light may produce electricity ;
motion, heat; heat may produce motion, electricity, light; and so we may
ring the changes of the convertibility of physical forces ad infinitum.
      Whenever a new attraction acts upon matter under attraction, the
attraction already existing seeks to maintain itself, and in consequence of

this resistance time is occupied, and according to the energy of the change,
Iso is the time diminished or increased.

          know no part of physical science which presents more important
matter for consideration than the phenomenon of time : for let us suppose
that a change of matter could take place without time ; the coals in our

grates would be consumed instantly if our house caught light, the whole
would momentarily vanish if we set in motion any body, it would arrive

at its destination quicker than thought, and be dashed to pieces.

Chemistry supplies us with substances, the particles of which are held

together so slightly, that upon the slightest application of force they are
separated : iodide of nitrogen, for instance, separates upon the slightest
agitation into its component parts. The safety of the proper use of gun-
powder depends upon its progressive action, which is slow as compared
with iodide of nitrogen, or with some varieties of gun-cotton.

     Man derives the idea of time from the resistance to change : if the
No. XXIII.]                    APPENDIX                                    325

total  changes constituting an event       are performed with energy, but little
time                                       change is great, considerable time is
       is occupied ; if the resistance to

evinced. The sum total of all time is the representation of all the events
which have happened from the commencement of matter to the present
moment ; and the number of revolutions of the earth round the sun, or of
the earth upon its axis, are generally the events which are counted as our
measure of time.

      From the nature of time, one preceded all subsequent events;
namely, the first rushing together or attraction of particles of matter,
which gave to every object its composition, form, and position. We
must look for the cause of this primary attraction to a source extrinsic
from   matter, as it could not have    caused itself to take
From   this consideration the mind is  led to contemplate an     o"nIMthMaAtTEpoRwIAeLr.

POWER," to confer this property on matter. This argument is indepen-
Ident and altogether different from the argument of design, but this is not

the proper place to enter into this consideration, which now leave to
your own meditations, or refer you to the seventh chapter of my
' Sources of Physics,' for its further development.

      Every event from which we derive our ideas of time has a beginning,
the generation of a new attraction ; and an end, the destruction of a
former attraction ; and as events have followed since matter existed, and
will continue till matter shall cease,
                                           time   began   with   matter    and will
terminate when matter shall cease, and     " The  great  globe,  yea, all  which it

inhabit, shall dissolve." From these views we find that time can have

none, no, not even the feeblest quality of eternity; and that however
exaggeratedly it may be increased, time never becomes eternity. Time is
a mere repetition of events, each having a beginning and an end. Eternity
Iis not made up of events, and has, therefore, no beginning and no end.
          have now completed,  as far as the  limited time  will permit, a short
sketch of the views of the     " Monogenesis   of Physical   Forces," which my

study of Nature and natural phenomena has forced my mind to adopt.
This doctrine has the merit of discarding the notions of aethers, essences,

imponderables, or a plurality of forces being attached to matter, and

places such vague assumptions rather amongst the mental creations of

Ithe philosopher than amongst the realities of Nature.
         am free to confess that this combination of physical facts and known
laws into one consistent doctrine was a matter of intense study and pro-
found thought ; but should it fortunately have the same power on your
minds, to render physical science of easy application, as it has had upon

Imine, you will pardon me for occupying your attention whilst have

endeavoured to teach, that attraction acting on attracted matter is the

source of all force, and that, therefore, every physical force has a mono-

genetic origin, and when generated a truly equivalent power.
326                   APPENDIX.                                     [No. XXIV.

                                     No. XXIV.
                  THE ECLIPSE OF THE SUN. 1858.

                    To the Editor of the ' Morning Chronicle'

    ISIK, am afraid that your correspondent may think he has good cause

to accuse me of want of courtesy in not having supplied to him an account
of the experiments on the light of the eclipse, but the observations exceeded

I150, and at the moment could not compress them into a form suitable
Ifor your paper, or should have had great pleasure in giving the details at
once. The great interest which naturally, however, belongs to this grand
natural phenomenon, induces me to send a short account of some observa-
tions made at Blisworth upon the darkness which marked the progress of
                      the hopes that it  may not                                of
the obscuration,  in                     me that  be  unacceptable    to many    "
your readers.         has occurred to             my    " abstract  photometer
                  It
might do good service ; for whether the weather was fine, or whether it was
cloudy, yet it was calculated to give us an insight into the extent to which
the sun's light might be veiled from the surface of the earth.
     The photometer consists of a wedge of neutral tint coloured glass,
cemented by Canada balsam to a similar wedge of colourless glass, and the
                      solid which results from the junction of the two

                      prisms is divided into degrees, each of which is equal

                      to the capacity of the one-hundredth of an inch of

                      pure bromine, so that the short account now given

                      may be compared by future philosophers with the

       _              results of subsequent eclipses hundreds or thousands

        FIG. is.      of years hence, if they do but know the length of
smee's Photometer.
                      IQur Eng^g^ fafa Armed with this instrument,
                      Iproceeded to Blisworth, where found a field con-
veniently located, which had been secured by some of my friends, and
Iwhere chronometers and all other instruments for accurate research had
been provided.        determined to take three sets of observations : the first,

of the light of the horizon, at a spot where a tree cut sharply the line to
the south ; the second, of the light of the ground at our feet ; and the

I Ithird, the light of the sky overhead : and anticipated that should
be able to test by the vigorous proof of scientific truth the wonderful

stories which are told of eclipses, which appeared to my mind as the
results of overheated imaginations, or of stories fit for an appendix to the

curious Travels of Baron Munchausen.

     In the morning, at half-past eight, the sky showed a light which was

veiled at 17 : * but at the commencement of the eclipse the clouds were

so dense that the horizon was obscured at 14 -15. From this time till
12h. 53', the light continually diminished to 11. The next observation was
Itaken at Ih. 2', when it stood at nearly 14, from which it rose to 15 at
2h. 16', at the termination of the observations.      need not here allude to
the rises and falls of light as the clouds became thinner or denser, as it
is sufficient to notice that the horizon lost light continually from the
beginning to the total, and gained from the total to tlie termination.

     * This and the following numbers refer to the degrees of the photometer.
No. XXIV.]                   APPENDIX.                                              327

      The illumination of the ground presented far more interesting and

important variations. At the commencement of the eclipse the illuminat-
ing power was 11 ; it varied with the depths of the clouds, but gradually
receded to 8'5 at 12h. 53'. At 12h. 55' it dropped to 8*3 ; at 12h. 58' it
reached 8 ; at 12h. 59' it was as low as 7*25. This was about the minimum
of light and maximum of darkness, when suddenly, in little more than a
minute afterwards, the earth became illuminated, and two or three seconds
after 1 o'clock the light rose to 10, and continued to rise with the varia-

tions of the clouds till 2h. 15', when it stood at 12*5. This illumination of
                   oavewro!n"dearnfdultonasteuerathlephgernooumndenbornigh: ttlhye
the   earth   was                                                                    country people called
out,          all                                                                   lighted whilst the sky
      " It's

remained in great darkness was a surprising, and to me an unexpected,

appearance.

      The sky was observed as near the zenith as convenient : at the com-

mencement it was equal to 14*25 ; from this it gradually, with variations

according to cloud, diminished to 11 '75 at 12h. 50', and then rapidly

dropped till 1 o'clock, when it stood at the lowest amount, 9*25. At Ih. 2
it rose to 12*5, many seconds later than the rise of the illumination of the

earth, so that the earth, brightly illuminated for some seconds, remained

with a dark canopy overhead, and this peculiarity appears to give a

marked character to the darkness of an eclipse which differs from other

obscurations.

      From these observations it is apparent that a great diminution of light

gradually occurs from the commencement to the totality, at which point
it very rapidly further declines; after the totality it almost suddenly
rises, and in fact so rapidly as to appear like a scene at a theatre suddenly
Iilluminated, from which time the light increased to the end of the eclipse.
      To the wondermongers who put all the birds to roost, may state that
the lark sang in the air at 12h. 47' ; that other birds flew about and chirped
to 12h. 50' ; that larks rose in full song as late as 12h. 52', and remained in
full gong to 12h. 55', at which time the cocks were heard to crow; even
the birds in the hedges whistled at 12h. 58', and, in fact, continued their

songs and flights from the beginning to the end of the eclipse : and if there
was an interval in their proceedings, it could not have been for more
than three minutes. The sun became visible at Ih. 0' 21", and again at
Iintervals till Ih. 57', when the light of its disc amounted to 18*25.
      The barometer did not sensibly vary. ascertained that the difference
U.between the dry and wet bulbs lessened at the time of the greatest cold

from about 3 to
    IAlthough these results are by no means so perfect as could be desired,

yet they are of considerable interest, and trust they will lead on a future
occasion to such observations that the variations of light and darkness

may be accurately detailed.  I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

      7, FlNSBURY CIRCUS,                                                           ALFRED SMEE.

              March 16.
328                    APPENDIX.     [No. XXV.

                                      No. XXV.

       ON THE WATER SUPPLY OF THE METROPOLIS.

           EXTRACTS from LETTERS to the ' Times ' and ' Standard,'

                                          by ALFRED SMEE.

THE deep springs which supply our livers round London flow from
the chalk, which absorbs the rain which falls upon it and retains it like a
sponge, and the great chalk hills which surround London are Nature's
storehouses for water, which yield a steady supply, influenced by the total
rain which falls over a period of several weeks, but uninfluenced by any
sudden showers. The Lea, the New River, the Colne, the Wandle, the
Grays water springs, and other streams, have their source in the chalk,
and it is our duty to take the water at its source, before it is contaminated
with sewage. Moreover, the rivers round London are full of weeds, which
grow with great rapidity in hot weather, but which die and rot at the
beginning of September, and this decaying matter is then supplied to
London at a period of the year when epidemics are most rife, and when its
presence is most dangerous.

      By taking spring water as it pours from the earth, and stowing it in
dark reservoirs, vegetation cannot occur, and the water can be supplied in
its purest condition.

      Although the cause of the choleraic impairment of water is unknown,
the pernicious influence of cesspools near surface wells is now thoroughly
recognized, and, possibly, the choleraic poison can run through the earth
as a fungus can extend for a considerable distance, &c.

      "While London cries for a further supply of water, it is not generally
known that there exists at Grays in Essex a series of fissures, or under-
ground rivers, which pour their water into the Thames, and the yield
of which is estimated at upwards of 10,000,000 gallons a day. Some of this
water is used for the supply of Brentwood, and Romford will be supplied
in two or three weeks, but the remainder is absolutely wasted, notwith-
standing that it is destitute entirely of organic matter, and is of a quality

....declared by the Government commissioners as the best which is obtainable

for the metropolitan supply

AGAINST DRINKING WATER CONTAINING ORGANIC MATTER. Speech
    delivered by ALFRED SMEE at the Civil Engineers', May 21st, 1867.

      MR. SMEE denied  that a small  quantity of organic matter in water was
                       quantity of    sinall-pox matter would infect a large
immaterial. A small

number of persons, and a less quantity of scarlet fever poison was required
to propagate that disease. There were many other poisons communicated
by means so subtle that the material agency by which the poison was
carried from one person to another had never been discovered, whilst
there was distinct evidence that it was so carried. When the great
cholera epidemic struck the neighbourhood of Golden Square, Dr. Snow
No. XXV.]                 APPENDIX.                                      329

visited every house that was attacked, and in each instance traced the
mortality to the use of the water from the pump in Broad Street. He
thereupon went to the vestry, declaring that the remedy against cholera
in that district was to chain up the pump. When the authorities heard
of the simple means he recommended, they were inclined to treat the

suggestion with ridicule, but they argued it could do no harm if it did no
goodI, tanhdadwhbeenenthaelylegcehdainethdatthecopwusmpa-nhdanfdalerm-thhoersmesortparleitfeyrrdeedcretaosedd.rink
water contaminated by sewage, and he would state, of his own knowledge,

that if those animals had the choice of clear water and foul water, they
would leave the pure water for the latter. For instance, the water which
flowed through Croydon had been habitually taken by some cows. These
were attacked with the rinderpest, whilst those around the district did

not suffer from it. Nevertheless, it was not only cows, but mankind who
in many cases preferred this particular class of water. Churchyard pumps
were resorted to in preference to others; there was something in the
taste of the water, probably from the salt it contained, that excited the
palate and induced people to drink it in preference to pure water. On
the last epidemic visitation of cholera, he recommended the authorities to
take off the handle of the pump over the old Roman well in the Bank of
England. That well, which was a celebrated one, was derived originally
from the gravel ; but now there     was reason    to believe it was supplied
from leakages beneath the urinals.
                                     It appeared   that, when the handle was

taken off, some of the people of distinction in the locality begged that
they might not be deprived of that water, as it was the only drinking
water they enjoyed. He had no hesitation in saying that, where tainted
water was supplied to the public, it was a matter of great moment ; and

that whenever an epidemic appeared, the community must be cautious to

do all they could to avoid the use of it.
The next part of the question was the character of the organic matter.
This, if like the white of eggs, or a basin of soup, was harmless; but let
the sotip or white of eggs get into a putrefactive state, and the operation,

like the leaven of bread, would communicate its taint far and wide. It
was matter in the act of change, and it set up change in contiguous
organic matter. The damage done to individuals of every species by the

excreta? of the same species, was generally recognized by the medical
profession; and the doctrine of the harmlessness of changing organic
matter was universally regarded as a medical heresy.
Now, what did Boards of Health frequently do ? He would rather

call them in many cases Boards of Death. The Croydon Board of Health
formerly took the water which naturally flowed into the stream, passed it
through the town and the water-closets, and then poured it in at the top
of the river Wandle, to poison every person living upon its banks. At
one period of an epidemic he thought it his duty to call the attention
        Privy Council to  the circumstance, when the   inhabitants were
of the  not to drink the  water of the river "Wandle.
warned                                                 It was only by a

series of bills in Chancery that the residents succeeded in suppressing
that nuisance ; and it was observed that the Croydon authorities found the
greatest difficulty in getting rid of the putrefying animal matter upon
land. He could give a recipe how to test imperfectly-purified water.     the

                                                                          It
mio'ht be clear and bright and pleasant; but put it into a bottle upon
330 APPENDIX.

the mantelpiece in a warm room, and in two or three days, notwithstanding
the filtering processhad removed suspended matter, it would begin to change,
and give unmistakable evidence to the olfactory nerves of the presence of
putrefying organic matter. Everything tended to show that animal matter

in a state of decomposition was to be feared. In seasons of epidemic it

was impossible to pass the excretse of one town to another in rivers without
great danger of propagating disease ; and for that reason water ought never

to be taken from such a source. Now, if it was matter in a state of change

which was injurious, there came the consideration whether the sewage
was presented as a totally changed matter in river waters ; in other

words, whether the sewage assumed a totally different form. Suppose

sewage cwas   put  upon the ground    .and absorbed by vegetables, such as
cabbages, or  was  absorbed by weeds  in rivers, it was no longer sewage ; but
notwithstanding, there were several cases on record which showed that it

was not perfectly safe to manure gardens by pumping sewage : under
these circumstances, as the plants grew up they would quickly decompose

after being cut for use, and would not be as wholesome for food as those

manured with sweet and fresh fertilizing matter. But if organic matter
assumed another form, it was really a new substance and harmless. The

question of changed matter was brought forward every month by the

Registrar- General and fallaciously estimated as pre-existing sewage, which

had caused some persons to be misled as to the wholesomeness of perfectly
unobjectionable waters. The matter must be utterly changed before it could

safely be used, and that change could be effected on the strata of the earth

by long-continued contact with mould and air. There was reason to
believe it was so with chalk. Wherever the water percolated through
chalk strata it was deprived of organic matter, perfectly deprived of

that changing organic matter to which he had referred as being noxious,
and which was converted into nitrites and nitrates. No doubt animal char-

coal could do a good deal artificially ; but while a great and perfect filter-

bed existed in Nature, he held it was right and proper to get for a large
town, especially for London, such an amount of water perfectly filtered
by Nature as to extract all organic matter from the water, whether in the

original or the changing state. In that way alone could wholesome

water, wanting no artificial filtration whatever, be supplied to the com-

munity.

LETTER of ALFRED SMEE read at a meeting of Medical Men convened to
      consider the Paper read by the late Dr. Letheby, ' On the Methods of
      estimating Nitrogenous Matters in Potable Waters, and on the Value
      of the expression " Previous Sewage Contamination," as used by the
      Registrar- General in his Monthly Reports of the Metropolitan

      Waters.'

    IDEAR SIR, regret that recent indisposition will prevent me from

accepting the invitation to be present this evening at the reading of
Dr. Letheby's paper.
No. XXV.]                   APPENDIX.                         331

      The doctrine of " Pre-existing Sewage " has for some time occupied
my attention, because as now understood it is one of the most dangerous
fallacies of the day.

       The question resolves itself into two parts: 1st. The question of
pre-existing sewage contamination, as inferred from matters containing
nitrogen in organic matters in the act of change, or undergoing oxidation.
2nd. The question of pre-existing sewage contamination, as inferred from
the presence of nitrates which are assumed to have arisen from the final

Ioxidation of organic matters.
      On the first part of the subject have a little to comment, because all
organic matters in the act of change are bad, though doubtless sewage is
materially worse than other forms of changing organic matters. The
dangerous part of the doctrine is, the inference of pre-existing sewage
from the presence of nitrates.
      As a matter of fact nitrates may be present without any pre-existing
organic matter, and every flash of lightning causes the union of the
elements of the air, and the production of nitrates without any previous

sewage contamination.

The originators of the doctrine of pre-existing sewage say that at any
rate the presence of nitrates shows the possibility of antecedent sewage

contamination.

      The fallacy of the doctrine consists in assuming a possibility as a
probability, and acting upon it as a reality, which in practice in this

metropolis may be followed by the most disastrous consequences.

     A very considerable quantity of water is supplied to London from

the overflow of water from the great chalk hills which act as a perpetual

storehouse.

The water from the chalk deposits, both in this country and abroad,
contains a veiy appreciable quantity of nitrates, which does not vary in

any very important manner.

Chalk water by running over water weeds loses its nitrates and
greatly stimulates their growth, and especially it may be noted that the

best watercresses are grown in water which has lately emanated from the

depths of the chalk formation.

     In consequence of this result, the metropolitan waters contain

more nitrates the less they have been exposed to the contaminating

influence of rivers.

The New River Company is mischievously returned by the authorities

as supplying more pre-existing sewage to its customers, in proportion to
the quantity of water which the company pumps from its deep springs and

the less it supplies from the river. In this way, the purer the water
which it supplies to its consumers, the more pre-existing sewage is

officially returned by the authorities.
The origin of the nitrates in chalk waters has not been satisfactorily
Idiscovered.
                myself have made many investigations on the subject, and
Ithe day before my recent indisposition believed that had obtained a clue
Ito the solution of the mystery, which demands full inquiry.  have con-

sidered the question under four heads : 1st. Do the nitrates come from
the nitrogen and oxygen of the atmosphere ? 2nd. Are the nitrates fossil

products of the animals which formed the chalk deposits ? 3rd. Are
the nitrates the products of animal matter superimposed upon the chalk ?
332                     APPENDIX.  [NO. XXVI.

4th. Are the nitrates the products of animal matter on the surface of the

Iground washed down by rain into the chalk ?
          have heard of cases of persons being deterred in times of cholera

epidemics from drinking pure spring water because of the tons of pre-

existing sewage with which that water was said to be contaminated,

and in place thereof have taken the surface-water, springs indeed with

perhaps less nitrates, but possibly with cholera poison in an active

state.

     It would be desirable if the medical officers of health would unite in

remonstrating with the authorities against the fallacy of the doctrine of

Pre-existing Sewage and the danger of promulgating such crude theories

amongst the populace. It is calculated in the highest degree to suppress

truth and promote error, and the officers of health should be fully prepared

to deal with the fallacy before another cholera epidemic arises and victims

Iare sacrificed to the influences of crude and undigested theories.
                                                have the honour to be, dear Sir,
                                   Tour obedient servant,
7, FINSBUEY CIRCUS,

     April 16th, 1869.             ALFRED SMEE.

                                     No. XXVI.

THE PRIVATE AND SECRET BURIAL-GROUND OF THE
      ORATORY. REJOINDER TO THE MANIFESTO OF DR. DALGAIRNS,

      PRINCIPAL OF THE ORATORY. By ALFRED SMEE. 1863.

THE Oratory has at length spoken, by its Principal, Dr. Dalgairns, and it
is my purpose to examine critically every word he has written upon the
private and secret burial-ground of the Oratory.

       Dr. Dalgairns declares the burial-ground to be private, but says that
it is untrue and inaccurate to call it secret. Surely that is secret which is
most carefully kept from everybody's knowledge. The Incumbent of the
parish never heard of it, nor the tax-collector of the district, nor the next
door neighbour, nor the adjoining proprietor; nor has it ever been

Igazetted, nor its locality fixed in any public document ; and though have
INo. 134 Parliamentary Paper before me, together with an accurate map of

their grounds, cannot tell, nor can anybody tell from these, where the
licensed burial-ground really is.

     It is not only secret, but the most secret burial-ground which has been

made known to the public.
      Dr. Dalgairns says that the proper protection of the dead ought to be

Isecured and regulated by public legislation. In this we both agree, and

trust that the Government will bring this private and secret burial-ground
under the protection of an Act similar to that which governs all the public
burial-grounds of this kingdom.

      Dr. Dalgairns says that the burial-ground is in the centre of a small
property, but the persons buried are not buried in the centre, but on one
side of the ground. So here further confusion as to position exists. The
Inspector of Burial-grounds says the burial-ground is stiff clay, without
No. XXVI.]                     APPENDIX.                                     333

water at eight feet. My relative was buried in sand, with water at five

feet. Another mystification of identity. This conflict of evidence makes

us wonder whether Dr. Dalgairns has not mistaken the place licensed.
But why waste our time over words ? Let the plan and licence be
published and gazetted, when it will be open to all the world, and no

longer remain secret. Dr. Dalgairns can cause the secrecy to cease when
he desires ; at present the burial-ground is still secret.

Dr. Dalgairns confirms my statement that the burial-ground has no
boundary walls and no public access ; that it is impossible to go thither
without permission to cross the private grounds of the Oratorians. Is it

right to expose the relations of those buried there to the influence of the

Ipriests, when we see that Wells, my relative, and Dr. Faber left all their
possessions to another of their body ?  ask public access and boundary
walls, and surely, sooner or later, my request will be granted.

Now something    more serious has to be answered.           Dr. Dalgairns says,
is untrue that  we keep no register of burials."            Show the register,
I" It
Dr. Dalgairns, and prove when the register was written. am in a position

                         that every inquiry by letter or
                       application has been answered
to substantiate

Ibeen rejected.
            upon oath                                       bpyers"onaldlyo  has
            Personal                                                         not

know." Letters have not been answered at all. This is a matter deserving

of the fullest parliamentary inquiry. A register and cannot be seen ; a

register and Dr. Dalgairns to judge who is to see it.

Surely this is the grossest violation of the spirit of the burial laws

which has ever come before the public.

      Dr. Dalgairns may endeavour to keep the register secret, but surely

the Legislature will compel him to make it public.

Dr. Dalgairns seeks to explain the change of names on tombstones.

He states that my family knew my relative by the name of William. This
is true. William was his name, and we all addressed him by the name of
William till the day of his death.
He described himself by the name of William in his will, and is

known to the outer world by the name of William.

The Oratorians, however, knew him only by the name of Anthony, and
on his tombstone he is called William Anthony, so that positively we have

one person going by three different names. What can be more damnatory
to secret burial-grounds and secret registers ? How is the money to be
traced in Chancery, and by the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he looks
after the succession duty, which will be pretty large by-and-by ? The
great lawyers in the House of Commons may solve this question; for
what is affirmed of William will be denied by those who only know
Anthony ; and what is affirmed of William Anthony, will be denied of
William, and also of Anthony.
William was my brother-in-law, Anthony was the Oratorian, and
William Anthony was buried at Sydenham. There will be no possible
method of describing my brother-in-law hereafter but by calling him
William, sometimes called Anthony, sometimes called William Anthony.
Who could possibly imagine that Frederick Fortescue, the Oratorian,
was the same person as Albanus, the gentleman buried ?
Where property exists, names should be distinct.
Dr. Dalgairns says that the wishes of the dead should be respected.
Does Dr. Dalgairns not know that my relative had no wish, had no will of
334                       APPENDIX.                        [No. XXVI.

Ms own, had passed his will and wish over absolutely and entirely to Dr.
Faber ? Is it not so expressed in his so-called will when he states that he

desires to be buried where the Superior shall direct ?
    IMy relative met Dr. Faber at the Bishop's house at Birmingham,

where he was kept, and was not permitted to have access to him. Faber
there persuaded him of the necessity of implicit obedience, and desired him

Ito quit his family and former friends for ever.
         begged and implored him in vain to renounce the obedience to Faber,
Iand have a living mind for himself.
      Only one answer was given, that  did not understand, and could

not comprehend, Christian obedience ; and that he was bound implicitly
to follow out Dr. Faber's instructions for his salvation.
     How can Dr. Dalgairns, then, talk of the will or wish of my relative,
or of Dr. Wells ? They had parted with their will or wish, and it was
Faber's will or wish which regulated everything ; and he did so decide

their. wish and will, that he got their property by the so-called wills.

    I asked Father Rowe if there was a will. He replied that he did not
Iknow. As this seemed to me impossible,
                                         pressed the question again,

when he said that Father Stanton, who was acting for Father Faber,

knew these things. On again pressing the question, he said he would

go and ask. He did go. He returned, and after a short time Father Knox

entered, and said he was executor, and he would undertake the funeral.

    INow Father Bowe's name appears as a witness to the will, and to this

day cannot tell whether his name has been forged, whether he did know
there was a will, or whether he was under the influence of religious

obedience, and dared not answer without the leave of the Superior.

    I and my son attended my relative's funeral, and received great
Icourtesy and much valuable information, which now acknowledge publicly
I Iwith thanks ; and now write publicly what also wrote privately on my

return from the funeral :
                                                                            " 7, Finsbury Circus.

    I" DEAR SIR, have to return you and the other members of the Oratory
my most grateful acknowledgments, as well as that of Mrs. Smee, for the
manner in which William Hutchison has been treated during his severe

affliction ; and have no hesitation in stating that, to the best of my belief,

as far as his bodily ailments have been concerned, everything under the

circumstances has been done which kindness and humanity could suggest,

and that he has invariably received that attention which might have been
expected from gentlemen and Christians. But to the spiritual intimida-
tion under which he has been kept by certain persons from the moment he

Ientered the Bishop's house at Birmingham, consider his premature death
Ihas been due ; and believe that this spiritual control is not only opposed
to Christian principles, but is contrary to the law of the land, and for this

I hold all implicated responsible.
                               I" remain, dear Sir,
" REV. FATHER KNOX,       " Tours respectfully,
" The Oratory, Brompton.                 "ALFRED SMEE."

      Dr. Dalgairns says " we are unbound by vow." Dr. Dalgairns, how do
you belong to the Order of St. Philip Neri and make no vow ? Why, Dr.

Dalgaims, did you put on the black cloak to look like monks if you were
No. XXVI.]  APPENDIX.                                              335

not monks ? And why did you pull it off again when the Queen's
proclamation forbidding monastic gowns came out, if it was not a

Imonastic emblem ?
          have always understood that the Oratorians were the Jesuits of
Jesuits ; that where the Jesuits could not get in the Oratorians did.
And surely you of the Oratory, who have got so much money together,
have not falsified your character for high intellect, political intrigue, and
Ithe hold you obtain over your followers to get their money.
Dr. Dalgairns quotes Father Faber's relatives.  fear that they have

suffered most acutely for his conduct ; and when they have seen family
after family separated, and seen the members of these families, over whose

mind he had the singular power of exercising so complete a control,

estranged from brother and sister, they may well be expected to have been
horrified.

      This powerful control of one mind over another seems inexplicable,

though it is true. The separation from family and loss of property is

Itoo bad for complaint ; and how can the widow or orphan complain when

  scarce dare complain ?

     It is not worthy of the members of St. Philip Neri to deny they are
monks, that they belong to an order and do not belong to an order, as it

suits their purpose. Dr. Dalgairns says they can leave without dispensa-

tion or permission, either from the Superior or any other ecclesiastical
authority whatever. This does not correspond with that implicit obedience
which Faber exacted. And when Dalgairns says that "the obedience
which we pay to the rule of the Superior has no place here," it is in entire
variance with the action and statements of my relative. He told me that
Iobedience to his Superior was absolutely necessary to salvation.
                                                                   have

urged this matter over and over again, with the same result.
My relative's life and death was an example of the doctrine of implicit
obedience. When Faber ordered him to leave his family and friends, he
did so ! When he told him to make his will, he did so, and in Faber's

favour.
      Now, as a matter of fact, from the moment my relative came in contact

with Dr. Faber, he acted most implicitly as he was directed. My relative
on many occasions pointed to the value of this implicit obedience, as by
that they were enabled to embarrass the Ministry and Parliament. In
fact, so great and necessary is implicit obedience, in the opinion of the
Oratorian votaries, that it is respected as far more important than truth.
Truth, he has argued, is doubtless a great virtue, more important, however,

for mercantile circles than for religious circles. In fact, truth is very well,

but faith is higher ; but highest of all is Christian obedience.
      My relative has declared to me that the community could dare the

Government and Parliament to interfere with them ; that they could cause
a riot when they liked ; and triumphantly pointed to the Hyde Park riots
in illustration. He always represented that the Ministry were afraid of
them, because the members acted together, and, by throwing their weight
in on even-balanced questions, could decide the issue. This was always
pointed out as the aim and effect of religious houses, and the obedience

they enforced.
      Are the counsels of this great country to be embarrassed by the

Oratory? Are Whigs and Tories each honestly fighting for their
336       APPENDIX.                                        [No. XXVI.

opinions to be controlled by a score of the monks of St. Philip Neri, who
out- Jesuit the Jesuits ? A new party must be made up of Whigs and

Tories who can honestly submit questions for discussion without the

interference of the congregation of the Oratory, acting obediently to their

priests. Liberty requires that the Government of this country should be

freed from such coercion by the abolition of the Oratory.

     My relative, under this notion of Christian obedience, was not in any

way the master of either his capital, his income, or any of his actions.
      As an important fact, Faber got my relative's money. Faber got

Wells's money ; and Faber, again, has left his money to another priest.

      Dr. Dalgaims says that we (N.B. Who ?) are justly fond of liberty.
Then abolish the Oratory, which prevents liberty ; abolish all wills where

liberty of action is prevented under religious terror. It is for the sake of

insuring liberty of conscience and action that monastic houses should be

abolished. In future give persons the liberty to make wills for themselves,

I Inot for their priests ; and know that am carrying out the will and
Iwish of my relative's un-Fabered mind when expose Faber's iniquitous

control.
     IIt is true that do not exactly know what my relative's fortune was ;
I Ibelieve it was upwards of
          , and that understated it before, to be

Iwithin the truth.
         understand that the executors propose to swear the personalty under
      , but how are they going to deal with his share of the Oratory estate ?

It is of no use to attempt to suppress this question ; sooner or later it
must be answered, as it is contrary to the policy of the State to allow the
fortunes of families to be absorbed by confraternities : if the acquisitions

of the Oratory continue at the same rate, they will soon reach an

enormous amount.

    IThe statement made of the excellence of my brother-in-law am too
Ihappy to confirm. He was one of the most truly good men ever knew.

From conscience, and conscience alone, he became a Roman Catholic.

From a conscientious belief in the necessity of implicit obedience, he gave

up his family, to whom he was intensely attached. From an anxious
attempt to do good he sacrificed his life by devotion, and a continual

conflict, which was manifestly going on between Christian obedience and
family affection. Whilst he was so good, Dr. Dalgaims, why did your

community have everlasting punishment as the effect of non-obedience to

the cruel order to separate himself ?

     Dr. Dalgaims rejoices over my disappointment at not getting my

relative's money. Disappointment ! Dr. Dalgaims. Do you give me

credit for such imbecility as not to have known that the moment my
Irelative met Faber he would be denuded of every farthing ?
                                                             wrote to

him, when Faber denied me access to him at Birmingham, to that effect ;

Iand have told him in his lifetime that when they had run through
Ihis money would receive him at my house ; for he was so high-minded

and truthful that we fully believed that some day he would leave Faber

in disgust.
      Religious influence is slow and subtle, but sure ; for what will a
religious man not do to save his soul ?

    It is true he was writing a book up to the day of his death. For the

sake of the honour of the human mind in this century, it should be known
No. XXVI.]                       APPENDIX.                            337

that the book, which treats of some fifty special interpositions of the
Almighty, was written when the unfortunate sufferer was dying of disease
of the brain.

       The end is a clue to the melancholy story. Here was the brain active
and showing the utmost partial intelligence, gradually being destroyed ;
and the same incapacity to judge of the truth of hopping houses, and
other concocted miracles, made him incapable to judge of the truth of
Faber's pretension to rule his mind.

       Where there is organic disease of the brain, the mind may be active
and capable in a high degree of exercising some functions, and yet be
damaged and incapable of performing other functions.
My relative was capable of doing great things, but incapable of resist-
ing the unnatural influence which Faber exerted.
IDalgaims asserts that want to introduce the principles of foreign
Ilegislation. Certainly  do, as far as religious houses are concerned.

Many minds seem incapable, as a matter of fact, of resisting the combined
action of priests. In foreign Catholic countries they have had more
Iexperience of priestly mode of action to secure the property of their
members.    believe myself that the Oratory is the most dangerous form

of Catholic confraternity. These houses have been suppressed before, and
doubtless will be again; and therefore the simple question is, are the

monastic houses in England now of sufficient importance to be abolished ?
That is a matter for the Legislature to decide.

      Dr. Dalgaims argues that an heir-at-law has no right, but every person
in a family has a natural expectancy over the fortune of every other member.
He had this natural right to his sister's property, and his sister had a

natural right to her brother's.

      These religious houses disturb the natural right, and not only are they
destructive by an absorption of the property, but also from the loss of the

influence and mutual assistance which takes place by intermarriages.

      Dr. Dalgairns says that he left a small reminder to his oldest and
most intimate friend, meaning Dr. Faber. Perhaps the world will estimate

Dr. Faber as his deadliest foe ; but why did he leave his property before
to the Duke of Norfolk, and why did not Dr. Faber leave the money to

his own family, who are known to have paid his college expenses, and are

supposed to have supported him at the time immediately preceding his

Ihold over my relative ?

        will tell Dr. Dalgairns why. The whole transaction is a sham : and
the will found within the walls of the Oratory, leaving the money to the

head of the Oratory, with witnesses members of the Oratory, and the

executor another member of the Oratory, is for their common benefit ;

that they are all co-partners ; and consequently that Dr. Dalgairns himself
is benefited by this legacy.

      The fortune which my relative possessed when Faber obtained his
mental rule, was not saved or collected by himself, but by his father and

uncle, for the general good of his family. Nothing can lend more to

prevent persons from saving money, if the successor, to save his soul, must
give it to his confessor, as my relative did.

     It is folly to argue that my relative could do as he pleased with his

money. He could not. He was bound by a spell. He had been cajoled

into believing that hell was his perpetual doom, if he did not obey Faber.

                                                      z
338                          APPENDIX.                      [No. XXVI.

I I Iasked my relative if should be damned, as was the keeper of my own
Imind. He replied that did not know the necessity of obedience : he did.

He was bound to act from his knowledge of this necessity to salvation ;

but that God, of His mercy, might pity my ignorance of it, though, if

I Ionce realized that necessity to my mind, should imperil my soul if
I did not yield.

     Dr. Dalgairns says it is implied that the secret burial-ground would be
used in cases of murder. This is an ingenious phantom he has raised
simply that he may knock it down. Such a thought never occurred to
me ; but, as he has raised the question, is it desirable as a matter of

prudence to let any confraternity have a secret and private burial-ground ?
    INow, when Dalgairns disdains to notice the allegation as to scheming

monks without visible means of living, tell him he cannot answer it, for

it is true, in substance and fact, that Father Faber had not one farthing

when he secured my relative, and that he was even supposed to be living

upon the charity of his family at that moment. He had no cheque-books
                                        account that Dr. Dalgairns could
at that time  ; he   had no   banking    point of that man who subverted
              there  be one  redeeming
examine. If
natural affection, it was that he for conscience sake left a good church
preferment and became a pauper. But an ambitious man made no bad

exchange when he secured the formation of the Oratory, and was consti-

tuted its head.

     Again, when Dr. Dalgairns asks how he can disprove that the house

Iof the Oratory is so constructed to favour the concealment of men of posi-

tion, reply, Show the plan, when everybody will see that it is a house
Iwithin a house, and admirably adapted for concealment.
          have frequently had the greatest difficulty even to know how my
relative was, when by long silence his sister feared illness.

    IDr. Dalgairns alludes to my assertion that am prepared to offer
Imyself for election to Parliament, that may ask the Secretaiy for infor-
Imation which he stated he would only give to Parliament if cannot get
Iit by other means. But Dr. Dalgairns must see that am bent upon
action, not upon trashy words and arguments. Private and secret burial-

Igrounds must cease; religious obedience must be controlled; and am

prepared to offer myself, at any convenient opportunity, to support

measures to prevent priests of any denomination obtaining money from

Ithose over whom they hold control under the fear of eternal damnation.

     It is perfectly true am well off, if not to spend my income is to be

I I Iwell off.
      Were
              otherwise situated than   am, how could       dare brook the

denunciation of a confraternity with such great power as the Oratorians,

who pride themselves on managing the Legislature of this great kingdom ?

     There was always the most intimate affection between my brother-in-

law and myself, and up to the latest day of his life he took great interest
Iin watching everything was doing, and frequently knew more what
I Iappeared in the papers with reference to myself than did.
Iobloquy upon my relative ; place it on the head of Faber.    heap no

     I IMy relative was one of the kindest and best men ever knew, and
Imust confess it was a great consolation to me to have been permitted to

see him the last few weeks of his life for which give the Oratorians my

best thanks.
No. XXVI.]     APPENDIX.                                                   339

The same intimate cordiality seemed to exist as formerly during
these visits.

But why ? He told me that Faber was dying, and he ceased to see
Ihim ; and upon Faber's head and memory the obloquy of separating him

from his family rests ; and assert, not only did Faber separate him,
but the public have a right to know how many others he has separated
from their families, and to what extent the same practices are now

prevailing.                                                                regard

    IThe Oratorians, present and future, will have the money.
all as co-partners, and doubtless a full inquiry will lead to an important
change in the law of this country. Secret and private burial-grounds

should be rendered public; authorized burial registers should be kept;

and paupers under the veil of religion should lose the power of getting

the money of those whom they persuade must be obedient to secure their

salvation.
    ITherefore it is not a matter of wonder that others have not com-

plained ; it is only extraordinary that can bring my mind to expose this
terrible faculty which Faber possessed.

Faber did not use the unnatural faculty for nothing ; he had no pro-

perty when he met my relative at the Bishop's house ; and how many

families whose money he has obtained, and was in process of obtaining at

Ithe time of his death, may never be clearly known.
      Now, Dr. Dalgairns, have but one more word ; you insinuate insult
Iin your concluding paragraph,                                it into  the House of
                                                                       yourself, you
Commons by members under                                      deceive
               and              wciollntpreorl.hapIsf  carry
               your                                     you
will not deceive the world, as to our present position.
                                                              give you and your

colleagues credit for courtesy and kindness of manner, and have not a

word to say against you or them personally, and, as far as my limited
Iacquaintance is concerned, should esteem them. This question is not a
Iquestion of religion, and now have no comment to make upon the form
Iof religion which you follow.  am acting in my capacity as a civilian,
Iand not as a partisan for any one special form of religion ; and ask all
Roman Catholics, Protestants, and Dissenters to join in considering calmly

the question, before the entire country is roused to indignation. Retract

in time, Dr. Dalgairns, if you wish justice. My complaint against you,

Dr. Dalgairns not personally, but as the head of the Oratory is :
1. That you have a private and secret burial-ground, without public
            access or boundary walls, which has no public register of burials,

            and where the names on the tombstones are changed.

2. That this private and secret burial-ground, and the means of con-

            cealment you have in your houses, are used to obtain money from

            converts under religious intimidation.
3. That one of your body did cause my relative, under the fear of

            eternal damnation, to appropriate upwards of 40,000 to purposes

      dictated by your Superior.

I Iquote one case to illustrate the general principle, and for that
ask that your Order of St. Philip Neri may be banished from this country,

and the control of the burial-ground may be assimilated to the general

law of the land.
      There are clauses in the Roman Catholic Relief Act of 1829, by which

Act members of that Church were admitted to Parliament and to various
                                                                       z2
340  APPENDIX.  [No. XXVI.

offices in the State, which are intended to provide for the suppression of
Jesuit and other monastic establishments in this country. My sad experi-
ence has brought me to the conviction that the intention of these clauses
ought to be carried out for the protection of families in this country, and
in defence of the freedom to which every inhabitant of this country is

entitled, but which the members of these establishments abuse and invade,

unless legal enactments are adopted and enforced which can restrain the
tyrannical and covetous practices of these orders.

                                                APPENDIX.

Correspondence with Sir George Grey in citation of Parliamentary Paper

                                                         No. 134.

             I March 30th, 1864.

      SIR, May venture to take the liberty to ask whether the private and
secret burial-ground of the Oratory at Sydenham is an exceptional case, or
whether any other licences have been granted to confraternities of Roman
Catholics, or of any other religious creed, for the use of a burial-ground
where no register is kept, and where the names on the tombstones are

falsified?
      Roman Catholics are more interested in this inquiry than other

denominations, because their families are more exposed to be victimised
by the Oratorians ; and even the late Duke of Norfolk, who applied for the
licence, and who, before the money was left to Dr. Faber, had the entire
fortune of my relative left to his Grace, doubtless for the purposes of the
Oratory, will suffer, as the Oratorians, whose schemes he assisted, have
persuaded his Grace's daughter to enter a nunnery in Paris.

      These private and secret burial-grounds are of much importance to
the Oratory, as they lead to the inference of an entire separation and
estrangement of the members from their families, an intimate union
between themselves, and consequently the possession of the money for
their common purposes.

      The Rev. Father Knox, the executor to the will of my relative,
obligingly told me, in answer to my inquiries, that the Oratory estate

Ipaid no legacy or succession duty ; that they passed it from one to another.

In confirmation of this, found that the will of Frederick Fortescue

Wells, whose name is changed on the tombstone to Albanus Wells, and
whose money Dr. Faber also got, was proved under 300 ; and we have
Dr. Dalgaims' authority (the present head of the Oratory) for stating
that the will of my relative will be sworn under 5000, and thus the
large possessions which the Oratory has already acquired will be ignored.
Under these circumstances, the changed names on the tombstones, as
destroying means of identification, is of importance to the Oratory, and
its prevention a matter of consequence to the State, as some future

IChancellor of the Exchequer may claim the duty years hence.

        venture most respectfully to solicit that you will grant me the fullest
particulars, as no person can tell how many families have been injured
by Dr. Faber and his colleagues. When the Oratorians get the money,
they abuse the family they deprive, to stifle complaint ; and fear deters
many men and most women from brooking the insult of an organization
Nq. XXVI.]                     APPENDIX.                           341

so powerful as to .include the names of Faber, of Dalgairns, and the
other priests of the Oratory, assisted by Bowyer and lawyers of high rank,
and who have newspapers under their control to vilify the families of
those whom the Oratorians deprive.

    SIB,  I April 4th, 1864.
if          am most anxiously awaiting your answer to my request   to know
    there are any other private and secret burial-grounds besides  that at
Sydenham, so that

Iit comes before the
                   the public  may be informed  upon the matter before
                   House of    Commons. Since   that letter, have care-

fully perused the papers which you have presented to Parliament upon
Ithe private and secret burial-ground of the Oratory belonging to the Order

of St. Philip Neri, and most respectfully urge that they do not contain
that information which the relatives of those there buried are entitled
to have.

      1. The position of the burial-ground of 500 square yards in the
garden is not given. The definition of the precise spot allotted as a burial-
ground is the more important, as the Government inspector has stated

that it is on the part of the ground constituted of stiff clay, and without

water at eight feet from the surface : whereas at the spot where my rela-
tion was buried the ground was sand or sandy clay, with water at five feet.
Dr. Dalgairns states that it is the centre of the ground, whereas it is on
one side. This discrepancy might be immediately used by Oratorians,
keen in the use of words, should any dispute as to position arise.

      2. The ownership of the land is not given. The estate at Sydenham
belonged to the family of the Bowdens, and is mixed up in a complicated
trust, whereas it is provided that, should the trust be illegal, the property
shall vest in its former owners; a provision showing that the skilled

barristers who have been consulted have been perfectly well aware of the
provision of the Catholic Relief Act, fear themselves that they could not
evade the law, so that years hence this land may fall into different hands,

and the graves of the dead may be desecrated.

    The terms of their licence are not given. The necessity of a correct

Ipublic burial-register is paramount, and at present all access to a register
has been denied.   most respectfully urge for your consideration that I,

Ias husband of the next-of-kin and heir-at-law of a person there buried,

ought to possess this information, and therefore trust that you, as Con-
servator of the burial-grounds of this country, will kindly furnish me

with these facts.                               WHITEHALL,

    ISIR,                                                               April 5th, 1864.
            am directed by Secretary Sir George Grey to acknowledge

the receipt of your letters of the 30th and 4th, and to inform you that

although several licences have at various times been given for the opening
of a burial-ground for the exclusive use of the members of a particular
religious community, he has not the means of informing you whether a
register is kept of the interments in such burial-grounds, or whether the
names, if any, on the tombstones are falsified, as these matters do not come
within the scope of the power vested in the Secretary of State by the Acts

Iwhich regulate the burial of the dead.

                                                         am, Sir, your obedient servant,

                                                H. A. BRUCE.
   APPENDIX.  [No. XXVI.

>

        Petition of ALFRED SMEE, Fellow of the Royal Society, of No. 7,
                         Finsbury Circus, in the City of London,

Sheweth,

      That on the 16th of July, 1863, your Petitioner attended the funeral
of a relative in a private garden attached to a house called St. Mary's at
Sydenham, in Kent, belonging to the membei's of the Order of St. Philip
Neri, now located at a building called the Oratory at Brompton, in the
county of Middlesex.

      That your Petitioner was informed by the Rev. William Knox, one of
the members of the Order, that this garden had a licence, which was pro-
cured by representations made to the Secretary of State by his Grace the
late Duke of Norfolk, whose family was in close association with the
members of the Order, and assisted them in their various schemes.

       That your Petitioner has seen his Grace, the present heir to the
dukedom of Norfolk, with his Grace's brother, assisting in ecclesiastical
garments in the public performance of services on the 16th July, 1863, at
the Catholic chapel at the Oratory at Brompton, in conjunction with the

priests of the Oratory, and also subsequently on the same day at the
garden of the house cabled St. Mary's at Sydenham.

      That young men of position and wealth are concealed from their
friends by the members of the Order, that they may be converted from
their faith, and that their property may be obtained for the maintenance

of the Order.
      That the existence of the burial-ground at St. Mary's at Sydenham

was unknown to the clergy of the parish of Sydenham, to the neighbour-
ing landowners, and to the tax-collector ; and your Petitioner has been
informed that the Ordnance surveyors were ignorant of its existence.

      That the part of the garden used as a burial-ground has no boundary
walls and no public access.

      That the persons there buried are described on tombstones by names
falsified by the addition of a second Christian name, so that the names on
the tombstones do not correspond with the names known to the families,
or with names as used by themselves in their wills, whereby the means of

identification are destroyed.
      That no register of burials is kept; and up to this moment your

Petitioner has not been able, after many applications, to obtain a certifi-
cate of the burial of your Petitioner's relative.

       That the house at the Oratory at Brompton is so constructed as to
afford means of concealment.

      Tour Petitioner therefore humbly prays that your honourable House
may institute an inquiry into the facts alleged, to ascertain whether it
may not be desirable that legislative enactments should be framed to
compel the owners of the burial-ground at St. Mary's at Sydenham to
erect boundary walls, to afford public access, and to keep a public register
of persons there buried, as required under the general Burial Act in force
in this country ; also to institute an inquiry whether it may not be desir-
able that enactments should be framed for the more effectual protection of
families from the concealment of individuals in the houses of these con-
fraternities or religious societies, and from the combined action of the
members of the Order to deprive the heirs-at-law of the fortunes of their
No. XXVII.]  APPENDIX.                                       343

converts and members ; and, lastly, to institute an inquiry whether laws in
other countries to protect families and heirs-at-law from the combined
actions of the members of confraternities and members of religious
societies may not be beneficially followed in the construction of enact-
ments to restrain members of the Order of St. Philip Neri, or other
monastic orders, from absorbing the property of those whom they convert,
or induce to become members of such orders.

             No. XXYII.

PRACTICAL REMEDY FOR EXTORTION AND INTIMIDATION
  PRACTISED BY THE AID OP THE SUPERIOR LAW COURTS.

             (Pamphkt. ANON.)

THE continual increase of extortion and intimidation through the medium
of the superior Law Courts is now attracting great attention, not only
among the mercantile and professional classes of the community, but also
among the higher class of solicitors, who are greatly scandalised by the
extent of thia demoralizing practice.

     In the innumerable methods by which the superior Law Courts con-

tribute to this end, there are always similar circumstances  a needy client,
an artful lawyer, and a man with money to be attacked.

The lawyer declares that he is the mere agent, and although the cause
may be bad, yet his client is a great rascal, and orders him to proceed ;
and therefore, to avoid solicitors' and counsel's fees, and the expenses, he

had better compromise and pay at once, as the cheapest thing which can

be done.

The sum total extorted annually from persons of respectability, and
which goes into the pockets of the lawyers, in the aggregate is very

large.

      As far as possible, the actual mode is a charge damaging to reputation,
and calculated to raise a question and prejudice in the public mind : such

as, firstly, a charge of wrong professional advice; secondly, a charge of
infringing the patent law; thirdly, a charge of fraud, which is chiefly
directed against those engaged with public companies ; fourthly, a charge
of ultra vires, where there is a trust ; fifthly, a demand for money with

only partial information ; and, sixthly, the extortion is effected by keeping
possession of a house or other property.
      As a matter of experience, most men will make sacrifices to prevent

charges, as denials and explanations will not prevent those in a similar
line of business from stating that such a charge was made ; and hence
these cases are usually compromised, by the payment of the bill of costs,

and perhaps some small sum to the client in addition.
      The remedy for all this is very simple. The extortion cannot be

effected without the lawyer : then let him be responsible for the transact ion.

and if fraud is charged improperly, or an untrue attack is made, let him

and his client conjointly be liable for damages.
344  APPENDIX.  [No. XXVIL

     In our present social state, there is no greater damage that a man can

receive than a false attack in law or Chancery. The immense expense of

lawyers, counsel, and witnesses the harass of mind and damage to repu-
tation are excessive ; and yet there is no remedy against such severe

injury. The man attacked must lose. He can never get more than a
portion of his costs, and yet at this moment no remedy is provided.

      Wherever we turn, these cases of injury and gross injustice crowd
upon our view ; and though they can never be got at in their exact detail,
by a variation of names, circumstances, and place, a few specimens of
extortion may be safely glanced at for the purpose of considering the

general phase of the subject.
      Mr. Bolus, a medical practitioner, sends in his bill of 20 to Mr.

ICrafty, who apparently was a respectable tradesman. The answer was,

" You maltreated me ; shall try an action against you, unless you give
me 1000." Terrified and alarmed, Mr. Bolus consulted a London surgeon,
who begged him to resist the claim, as he treated the case very skilfully.
A writ was served; the case was carried to the eve of trial; the trial
was countermanded. The medical man was harassed for months by the

Ifcharge, when suddenly Mr. Crafty becomes a bankrupt without assets.

the lawyer, who had done rightly to effect a compromise, had been liable,
this attempted extortion could not have been perpetrated.

      Mr. Faith consulted Mr. Quack upon a secret malady. Mr. Quack
sent in a bill of 700, carried the case to London, at great cost, to the eve
of trial, when it was abandoned, and it was discovered that Mr. Quack had
evaporated to America. Surely the lawyer here was as bad as Mr. Quack.
Several in London live by this method.

      Great cruelties are practised under the Patent Laws. In a village the

greater part of the people made a respectable but slender living by turning
black buttons into white by a chemical process. One fine morning, whilst
their operations proceeded peaceably and quietly, a writ was served upon
each by Mr. Whiting, a patentee of a similar process. What was to be
done ? The whole village was in consternation. They thought they were

all ruined. In this dilemma they sent one of their body to London to

consult a scientific man who had written the book they consulted upon
turning black buttons into white. This gentleman was interested in their
case, and told them that they did not infringe the patent, but that they
must put in an appearance to the writ. With difficulty they got together

  5, which they took to a solicitor, when no further proceedings were taken.
Here wei'e men harassed for months by the bold manoeuvre of Whiting,
which would unquestionably have succeeded but for the kind gratuitous

 advice of the scientific man.

      In the same way the pioneers of photography were greatly harassed

 by Mr. Sunshine, who claimed to be the original inventor and patentee of
 sun-portraits. Now Mr. Sunshine was a wealthy man, and had great
 possessions in Moonland, and was very ambitious of a baronetcy, which
he is supposed to have lost from his practice. Why should he not
have been made to pay for the great injury he inflicted upon the poor

 photographers ?

       Public companies are peculiarly exposed to this kind of fraud. The
directors, or some of them, in the Waste Land Regeneration Company
No. XXVII.]  APPENDIX.  345

received a polite note from Messrs. Catchem. and Squeezem, asking them
to call, as they have something very particular to communicate, having
been consulted by the Rev. Dr. Blackleg. That having failed, a clerk was
sent with a long bill, stating his employers take a great deal of interest in
the company and do not wish to do it any harm, but the reverend doctor
has some shai-es in it by virtue of some assumed services ; and as he is
largely in debt, wants the company to buy his shares immediately, so that
he may pay some of the more pressing of his debts. He stated that the
reverend doctor had written a frightful charge of fraud, which they will

be compelled to file, and if they do file they must advertise according to
law. As friends and well-wishers of the company, his employers, Messrs.

Catchem and Squeezem, advise an immediate payment to the reverend

doctor, who must have money. Any attempt to wind up the company
must injure it, and cost besides a great deal of money. In truth, if the

company gains, the reverend doctor has no money wherewith to pay the
costs ; and besides, the doctor is a desperate character, having misapplied
money of the Society for the Promotion of the use of Coloured Trousers,

and embezzled money given to him to pay the bills of the Young
Hottentots' Improvement School.

     A safe remedy would be to make Catchem and Squeezem, as well as

the pious doctor, responsible to every person he sought to damage by
endeavouring to extort money by the aid of the Court of Chancery.

      In this case their number is legion, for all who hold the improved

land all the shareholders, all the surveyors, engineers, clerks, and work-
people may be damaged by the injury the society received from this

charge. In the end the shareholders desired a compromise, and the

Rev. Dr. Blackleg got some hundreds of pounds to stop the case going
further than the advertisement, but that itself did great damage to its

financial credit.
      As another example of the same kind, the Rev. Mr. Snowdon is a great

buyer of shares to sell again at the Stock Exchange. When he makes
 money, he does so; when he cannot, he charges false statements. The
cases are generally compromised, to prevent scandal, and this man alone

 has extorted money from many companies.
       When companies are in difficulties some lawyers advertise for clients,

 and guarantee them against costs, for which they allow them to harass the
 directors; and the more respectable and more numerous they are, the
 better the game the better for the lawyers. Messrs. Thief and Robber
 live entirely in this way, and by charging fraud against every person,
 however remotely connected with the company, are sure to find some who
 dare not resist their extortion. The real plaintiff is not allowed to have
 any voice in the matter. Now, surely Thief and Robber are the real
 plaintiffs, and ought to be held responsible for the false charge and liable
 for damages and costs to their victims.

        Winding-up companies are invariably attended by an accountant and
 a lawyer. Mr. Accurate, the accountant, has got large estates that way ;
 and Mr. Virtuous made a fortune by the winding up of the Celestial Bank,

 fo the great damage of the poor shareholders and depositors.
        Another form of extortion is practised by making a claim and not

 giving pnrtieitlars. Mr. Hardup has a claim against Mr. Easy, who is
346                                           APPENDIX.                          [No. XXVII.

     w"asGirnacnutrerde,d"."say"s    Mr.      Easy, " but tell me  what your claim is and
                                    Find      out yourself," says  Hardup. " simply tell
liable.

Ihow it
I "I "Iyou have a claim."

get the information."
                                 "    cannot,"  says Easy;          do not  know   where to
                                    Then here   is a writ," says   Hardup,  " and  expenses

begin this day." The case is carried up to trial, and stopped ; and this is
repeated till Easy has much more than he ought to pay extorted from him

to stop the continual expense of getting up the defence.

     It is contrary to public policy that the lawyers should be able to
institute actions for their own benefit. In every case where they have a
                                                                In the celebrated case of
p" aBuopxervecrsliuesnt,Cohxe,"  is entirely  in their hands.
                                 where Box    took two suits   of clothes from home, and

put one on the edge of a precipice, and walked off in the other, Box
appeared to be dead. Box's brother, who was in league with Box, claimed

under a policy from the Pay-in-every-case Assurance Company. Every-
body saw through the trick. The judge, jury, and public were astonished at
it. But Box's brother could not stop, because then his own lawyer, Mr.

Gammonem, would have made him bankrupt for his costs ; and if he did

go on, he was told he might have a sympathising jury, who would patronise
the individual against the company, and save him from expenses. Surely,

Mr. Gammonem ought to be liable for the costs, as his interest in the office
was much larger than that of his client. Box's banisters are said not to

be paid to this day, and the Pay-in-every case Assurance Company have
lost hundreds in law costs.

     Not only needy lawyers who are in league with roguish plaintiffs, but

needy counsel are sometimes in similar                   collusions; for in      hardly any
extortion case is the fee paid before trial.                                     the counsel
                                                         If the plaintiff wins,
gets paid ; if he loses, the plaintiff is bankrupt, and the lawyer regrets the

absence of funds.
     How can it satisfy the public to hear fervid eloquence by a briefless

barrister, when Mrs. Briefless and the little ones at home are dependent

for their dinner upon the result of the case ? When a barrister deliberately

goes into court and makes an attack to secure his fee, he is equally guilty

of extortion as the lawyer or plaintiff, and all ought to be equally liable to
the defendant for his costs and for the damage he causes.

     It is not only on the plaintiff's side that extortion is practised. There

is a class of cases, especially with respect to the letting of houses, where a
false defence is used as a means of extortion. This is so frequent, that

hardly any person who has had to do with house property has not been

victimised. In this case, a needy man gets into possession, pays no rent,
does damage to the property, and will not go till he has extorted money,

which is done by a false defence instituted by a low attorney.

     It is, perhaps, quite unnecessary to burden this sketch with fuller illus-

trations of extortion and intimidation, for even respectable solicitors know
that they themselves sometimes have money extorted from them.

      The principle of the remedy for extortion and intimidation is plain.

Make all participators responsible and liable for the damage which they

seek to commit.

      Firstly. Where fraud is charged, or complaint made, or occupation of
property kept without adequate cause, let the plaintiff be liable for the

damage.
No. XXVIIL]            APPENDIX.                             347

       Secondly. Where the plaintiff lias not the means to incur the liability,
let the lawyer and banister who propagate these false charges be liable
for the damage.

      Thirdly. Where plaintiff, lawyer, and barrister are paupers together,
and seek to extort money, let the defendant have the power of requiring
security for costs and damages before the charges are either published,
advertised, or come before a public court.

       The application of Courts of Law and Equity for the purposes of
extortion and intimidation has a highly demoralizing effect upon society.
The respectable community shrink with horror from the scene of a Law or
Chancery Court. Stop extortion and intimidation in the name of law and
equity, by making lawyers and barristers responsible when getting the
wages of extortion and intimidation, and the Law Courts of this country
will again command the affection of all friends of order.

     July 1st, 1863.

Postscript. The cases given in this pamphlet, although so like the
truth that many readers may think they know the particulars to which

they refer, are nevertheless, as a matter of course, pure creations of the

imagination, and have  no relation to any person, place, or real circum-
                       should think the cap fits, and should apply any of
stance. If any reader

the fanciful creations to himself or friends, the thought comes from a

guilty conscience ; let him wear the cap, and be thankful he has not got

that measure of justice to which he is so rightly entitled.

                                  No. XXVIIL

     THE PUPPET PARLIAMENT OF EARL RUSSELL, K.G.

                                     (A Political Skit. ANON.)

EARL RUSSELL has postponed his doctrine of Final Reform to a more
convenient season. His partisans could not bear to change their Reform
Club into an auction mart for the sale of constituencies, and so the building
stands as a nest for illiberal demagogues, for the denunciators of all
governing authority, and for partisans of every form of spurious religion,
or of no religion at all.

     Earl Russell's bill is not final ; it is not even the penultimate. It is

to be followed by a series of little bills, which are designed to make
Members of Parliament the abject tools of the populace, and destroy their
personal individuality, so that at last they may be the mechanical puppets
of the people.

      When Earl Russell perfects his Parliament, flesh and blood will not be
-required, humanity must be dispensed with, or an independent mind might
show its transcendent power, and for one moment resist the crying desire
of an illiterate mob.
348                                          APPENDIX.                   [No. XXVIII.

     The ultimate perfection of Earl Russell's Reform will be the com-

pletion of his suppression of mind and reason, by the substitution of
mechanical puppets for rational thinking beings.

      Each seat in the House of Commons, instead of being occupied
by a living soul responsible to God for acts and thoughts, will be filled
by a graven wooden idol, fitted with machinery for saying Aye and
Nay, and worked by electric wires from the several counties and

boroughs having the privilege, and obligation of returning members to

Parliament.
      Of these wooden-headed Puppets the majority will, like speaking

dolls, simply say, Aye and Nay; but others will require more elabo-
rate cries, which the genius of Wheatstone will doubtless be able to

supply.                         will speak                           its constituents :
                                Down with                             Court Breeches
"      The Brightian Puppet                  when        pulled by
   Down with Down with                                  formalities
                                              All

   The Throne The House of Lords The Church The Army The Navy

   Everybody !"
      By ingenious machinery the ejaculations will be uttered at intervals,

by indifferently coupling together the phrases. In this manner everything
will be said that brainless demagogues now say, and Dr. Percy can utilize

the steam-engine now used to cool the heated heads and calm the excited
hearts of the present Members, to make the popular Puppet roar and roar

again.                          images       will be made to shout       " Sing,  sing !"
      Other representative

when moved by the Papistical Manning wire, and the condensed steam
from the engine will pour forth tears from the eyes of another image
when Oratorian priests are reviled for their girl and boy concealing pro-

"peNnosi"tigeNaso.llowStsat!e"  Church, no Church Rates !" the   Binney wire will move.
                                the murderer's puppet will cry.  Burglers and garrotters
will make their puppet shout, "No flogging!" With these and a few

other words, howled by wooden images, the Puppet Parliament would be
so complete that no one could fail to recognize it as the present House
of Commons one stage further Darwinially developed towards the Rus-

sellian perfection.
      The Puppets of Parliament will have no responsibility, as men have,
but will be obedient to the persons who set them up. A puppet has no
conscience; has no belief in moral law, and dispenses with all religion,

or even the notion of a God. Glorious news for those reformers who
seek to annihilate the Church, and to destroy an obedience to the One

over-governing Power !                       Puppet House of Commons     will be written
             othfebradsoso,rw"aTyheofmtohbe  is God ;" and in the House  itself a suitable
       Over

in letters
cartoon will be painted, depicting the triumph of Russell over Mind and

Religion.

     It is strange that Gladstone, in his advocacy of a puppet Parliament,

should denounce the votes of dockyard labourers, and declare that dockyard
representatives should be protected from the influence of dockyard labourers.
Gladstone views with horror the possibility of Phinn, Otway, Martin, or
Kinglake standing, cap in hand, at the dockyard gates, to beg and pray
No. XXVIIL]                  APPENDIX.                                 349

for dockyard votes, when the men are skilled enough to know that the term
Liberal Reformer is that which is used for an illiberal paymaster. When
the candidates earnestly implore, the     men are wont to
                                          proceeding for the  sneer; and if
rumours are well founded, it is a costly
                                                              country when-
ever the so-called Liberal Government causes the men to vote against any
candidate opposed to Reform Club tyranny. Why this inconsistency?
TeU us, we pray thee. For why shall you give all other classes their
puppets, and refuse them to dockyard labourers ?
Gladstone, you are now upon your trial! It is for you to decide
whether you will attain to one of the highest pinnacles in the temple of
Fame by joining the great party of Lawmakers, or sink into insignificance
by becoming a Ministerial Puppet to the people's Parliamentary Puppets.
Gladstone ! you are qualified by nature to be a great Lawgiver and teacher
of the people, and you are not adapted to be a mere tool and Puppet.
Use, then, your high mental power to govern your words, and let not
mere words, resounding from the ignorant and designing, govern your
mind. Vox populi, vox Dei may be your damnation : vox Dei the One
over-governing Principle of Truth, your salvation!
There is a great issue to be tried. Are Members of Parliament to be
Puppets or lawgivers ? Are they to be passive instruments, to act and vote

according to the requests of the noisy section of their constituencies ; or

are they to be the initiative, thoughtful leaders of the people ? It is ten

thousand times easier to be a Puppet than a Lawgiver. Every fool glories
in being a Puppet of the people, and will rejoice to support Earl Russell's
Puppet Reform ; but every wise man seeks rather to reform Earl Russell,

and be a Lawgiver and teacher to the multitude.

The Derby Lawgiver solicits votes on a pledge to do his duty to his

constituents, his country, and to his God. The Russellian Reform-Club-

Puppet solicits votes on a pledge to follow blindly the wishes of his

constituents, not caring for his country, nor fearing his God.

     A Derby Lawgiver is an adviser to the people, and brings the know-

ledge of the whole to bear upon the study of the part. The Russellian
Puppet deals with fragmentary notions, and does not understand that a
one-idead man, not one whit less dangerous in action, is next akin in

mental intellect to a monomaniac, who is impelled by one single ever-

recurring thought.

     The Reform Bill of Earl Russell is the intermediate link between the
present state of things and his final Puppet development, For the moment,

he desires to sweep away legislators and substitute one-idead members to
be elected from one-idead voters. Every conceivable, speciality of occupa-

tion is to be represented, from the maker of Bright's odious Court breeches
to the parliamentary place-selling agents of the Reform Club, to the total
exclusion of any consideration of the general welfare of the country.
A preponderance of Puppet power is to be given to the smaller
class of shopkeepers, who work not, but rob the poor and cheat each other.
It is imperatively necessary for them to have Puppets for under-skilled
legislators; how long would they sell adulterated beer and bad bread,
to impair the muscle and sinews of our skilled mechanics ? Little shop-
                             legislative interference, and so  Earl Russell
keepers  have ever feared    to keep his feeble Government     in power. A
panders  to their iniquity,

legislator would control their doings ; they now control the Legislature.
350  APPENDIX.  [No. XXIX.

      The Puppet Parliament must reflect its actions back to the people
themselves, and workmen -will hereafter expect masters to be their Puppets.
Doctors even now wonder whether my Lord Russell will graciously
issue a proclamation ordering men hereafter to live without their brain,
which co-ordinates and regulates the movements of each individual
limb.

     A good lawgiver, on the contrary, makes a good constituent. The

man who appreciates honest and earnest thought in those above him will
bestow thought upon the affairs of those below him. Every person is

second to some other person on some question ; so a good lawgiver has a

continuous beneficial influence upon the entire community.

     A great battle is at hand. The Puppets have made a deadly attack

upon the lawmakers. Russell conflicts Derby; but who will be their
soldiers? Whigs and Tories now consult together against the common
enemy of intellect. Conservatives and Reformers confusedly jostle
together, despite their former differences. All, regardless of former
opinions, are disposed to join their talent for the common protection of
mind and thought. Two new divisions in political circles separate them-
selves in battle array. Brainless, mob-idolatrous demagogues will fight
tinder Russell. Thoughtful, studious lawgivers will join the ranks of

Derby.
       Already the common-sense and intellect of England cries for the

people to abandon Earl Russell's Puppet, which hears not, sees not,
understands not, thinks not, but acts simply as an uninformed mob may
cause it to move. In place of a senseless idol, the good and great respect
the human mind in its natural purity of intellectual truthfulness, and
trust that after hearing, seeing, remembering, understanding, judging,
comparing the present with the past, it will create laws and ordinances for
the people to follow for their welfare and happiness.

       Shall the people elect an intelligent Lawgiver, or manufacture a

 senseless Puppet ?
       Shall Russell carry out the behests of the mob, or shall Derby

 legislate for the nation?

                                    No. XXIX.

     THE FINAL REFORM BILL OF EARL RUSSELL, K.G.

                                     (A Political Skit. ANON.)

A FINAL Reform is now demanded from the Legislature by forcible, far-

seeing men who know the worth of importunity.
      Speeches are more telling than thought, and one pseudo-political

orator is more attractive to a Minister bent upon retaining power than ten
thousand quiet, thoughtful men who simply follow their business and
advance the wealth and commerce of the country.

      Politicians have spoken a final Reform is requested; so who can
be more ready than the present Ministry, under the leadership of Earl
No. XXIX.]  APPENDIX.  351

Russell, to gratify the wish that the wealth and talent of the country
should be entirely deprived of all influence in the country ?

      Palmerston is no more! Final Reform is therefore attempted, for
there is no one now in the Government to support order and prevent

anarchy.

      Agitators agree that the franchise should be extended to every one
who is not independent, and to whom the sale of a vote is an object. To
extend the franchise to 6 householders would not be final, for other
agitators would put in a claim for 5, and afterwards to 4, 3, 2, and

  1. After this, why should not the non -householders have a vote ? for
money would be as useful to them as it is to the householder; and,
following out the same idea, when all men have the suffrage, it would be
demanded for women and children, who would have as much right to
receive remuneration for their votes as men have.

      Earl Russell knows well that money has kept his Ministry in power ;
nobody knows better than the ministerial whip how many thousands the
last election cost, and who can so well tell as those who were in the thick
of the fight how the tens and hundreds of thousands were divided amongst
the electors ? Had not every borough its price, which could be ascertained
from the agent to the Reform Club, and the names of the voters in each

borough who got their 2, 5, 10, and 20 ? for their vote is registered

in heaven, even if the register on earth cannot be found to be produced

before a parliamentary inquiry.
       Money is the clue to final Reform. Every borough has a price,

increasing or diminishing, according to the doctrine of supply and
demand. Afford a fair market to parliamentary representation, and

final Reform is accomplished ; that is, if you give credence to my Lord

 Russell.
       The Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill, is comprised in the

 grand idea SELL THE PLACES IN PARLIAMENT BY AUCTION, to the

 highest bidder, and divide the money amongst the voters.
       Final Reform has the rare and singular merit of extinguishing

 Reform. Reform being no more, leaves the Reform Club a house
 without a purpose, and the house can then be sold for a parliamentary

 auction mart.
       Perched in a rostrum in the central hall, Earl Russell might be

 entrusted with the office of auctioneer, and thrilling will be the effect
 when Leeds, Chester, and South Lancashire, on the next election, are

 knocked down to the happy aspirants to political power.

     If the Reform Club be sold to the State, how excited will be the

 feelings of many of its members when the conveyance is effected ! How
 many, for the first time, will have the extreme gratification of finding
 themselves possessed of some portion of this earth's wealth !

       The auction final Reform will doubtless bring out the financial tact
 of Gladstone. Has he not already made the State a trader in
 Assurance ? And has he not shown skill in making his poor Post-office
 proteges perform their duties for nothing ? With such rare expedients,

 msvwheoaharjilockl lreicntayonf?tobrtehetIhdfeoMnsoeisnraewillseyittrohpyforeubmstesieflukdarb, t?lhceoeaunrtolddpachGyoomlwafodmrsgatorrneendanett,mwnloaoonbuteoldyumr,fabokearentdahtherpeisapkrp.rliooasfmitt-Eeonvfiffteiacnerthyieaf
352                                  APPENDIX.                                [No. XXIX.

that field be insufficient, his fertile mind could create money by causing

the post-office to take charge of umbrellas, or good soled boots, to protect

the heads and keep dry the heels of old gentlemen and ladies who want to

shield themselves from the slightest moisture.
     There is reason to expect that Sir George Bowyer, and the money-
                                                                              Reform,
getting, heir-spoliating Oratorian   priests,           would accept   final   Oratory  as
they could command thereby more      votes in           the House.
                                                                      If the            is

as earnest in fortune-getting as it has been of old, surely with the pleasures

of Heaven and benediction, and the pains of hell and damnation, ten heirs
and heiresses can be caught every year. Now, a single fifty-thousand-

pound heir or heiress could allow the Oratorians to buy many boroughs ;

and if they could only bag their Duke, one year's ducal income would

suffice to purchase more than one county franchise.
     Besides the Oratorians, the nigger Baptists would delight in an

Auction Bef orm, for when the black men desire to massacre the white men,

they could by obtaining a preponderance of votes make the extermination

of the whites legal. When the black men of Jamaica howled under their
punishment for murder and rapine, did not Earl Russell supersede their
punisher? Gordon has been hanged, so Earl Russell has lost an
opportunity of placing him with Bright in the Ministry. Both Gordon
aIfndBrBigrihgthtmhaakdeseqmuoasl t  merit in stirring
                                      noise, Gordon      up the evil passions of mankind.
                                                        produced the greatest effect, and

both are equally entitled to sympathy and reward.

     Generally, all special religious enthusiasts would welcome the final
Reform Bill. Double extra High Church, double diminished Low Church,
and every form of cant and hypocrisy, would crown Earl Russell for

giving them an opportunity of obtaining an ascendency, which they would

not fail to do, if only pastors could find flocks foolish enough to sacrifice

their fortunes to support fantastic notions.
     Not only special religionists, but certain parts of the monetary
interest, will hail an Auction Reform with delight. Does not the Stock

Exchange derive millions from new companies every year ? Nobody can

see any difference between the Stock Exchange and the gambling hells of
the lesser princes of Germany, although every person, in fairness, admits

that the German hells are, at least, superintended by the police, whilst the
Stock Exchange is not. As there is a current belief in a parliamentary
interference with the peculiar mode in which the Stock Exchange gets

money from the public, a tithe of their gains would command many

parliamentary seats to protect their acquisitions.

     Again, the lawyers about the Reform Club who sigh for place may be
expected vehemently to support Earl Russell, as in future they may
calculate with accuracy whether it is worth their while to invest a definite

sum for an expected income. How many briefless barristers at the Reform

Club have bribed electors to secure a seat and obtain a judgeship, and yet
remain Mr. Briefless still ? How many poor fellows wander helplessly
over the Reform Club who might, by an Auction Reform, get by chance a

borough cheap, and show their competence for employment by a servile
ministerial support ?

      Everybody cannot be pleased, and we may expect Bright to dissent
from final Reform, as it would cause his occupation as a democratic

agitator to be gone. Could he, however, not be recompensed with a seat
No. XXIX.]                       APPENDIX.                                    353

in the Ministry    ?  would it   be discordant for the noise-maker to    sit  beside
the noise -user ?                 creates desire, Russell gratifies it.  Let   them
                      If Bright

sit side by side, models for future ages to avoid.
Any skilled lawgiver admitted into Parliament would be a curse to
Bright. Without a mob, what is he ? With logic he is abroad. Ignorance
and folly is his gain ; knowledge and ability his loss. Partially true,
universally false, he is a god to those who don't work, can't work, and
won't work. Education would for ever blast this idolatrous belief, and so
he clings to the untaught and undisciplined masses. He and Earl Russell
agree in abhorring a comprehensive mind which leads, and in holding to
the servile mind which implicitly obeys. Both eschew Nature, which has

ordained that some men should be tall and others short, some should
invent and others be the mechanicians. Both tamper to a universal
mediocrity, where no ray of intellectual superiority enlightens. Is not
their character shown by their companions ? And do not both partake of

the mediocrity they worship ?

     All must admit that there is one large class, hated by Bright and

despised by Russell, who consider finality in human legislation impossible,

and think that the vote of an elector should be the vote of Intellect,

Intelligence, Independence, and Integrity, and who would despise the sale

of a franchise by auction, and equally deplore the purchase of individual

voters by any Reform Club agency. That class believe that Providence
has wisely ordained that many must be ruled, few can be rulers. Bright

ignores Providence by subverting natural order and seeking to make the

governed governors. Russell follows ; and, driven on by a power he is

unable to restrain, he goads on that power that he may remain a moving

instrument of an ignorant multitude. The true governor leads, and would

not be driven without horror and humiliation. Russell must be the tool

of the disaffected, or he would be nothing.

     A higher principle over- governing a subordinate ; a universal law
overriding a subsidiary ; a comprehensive mind overruling a contracted ;
the whole over-regulating a part, are doctrines for Bright to damn, and

for Russell to agree with Bright. Bright, however, can never accede to
the peerdom of Russell while he remains a commoner, nor can Bright let
Russell lead whilst he only follows. Bright as a democratic orator and
hater of superiority is great in the way that lovers of order abhor. For
Bright to retain his greatness he must deal with littleness, and therefore
the auction final Reform would not .quite suit Bright, as it might enable
Parliament possibly to have members as great to Bright as Bright is to

the imbecile inmates of Earlswood Asylum.
      There are four great diseases before Parliament this year : 1. The

rinderpest, or death of cattle ; 2. The cholera pest, or death of mankind
both bodily diseases, to be treated after an exact study of Nature's works :
3. The Nigger pest white murder by blacks; 4. The Fenian pest the
annihilation of social order and religion: both mental epidemics, to be
treated after an earnest study of God's moral laws.
      Who shall legislate upon these serious maladies ? Shall they who

have bought their parliamentary seats by money, and tampered to the
follies of their age ? Or shall they who represent independent, thoughtful
voters, and who have studied Nature's works and followed moral laws ?

                                                    2A
354  APPENDIX.                                              [No. XXX.

     No. XXX.

     LOCKED-UP MONEY.

     From Hie ' Standard,' June 6, 1866.

     SIR, Permit me to call your attention to a practical remedy for the

great inconvenience which the public now suffer from large sums of money

being locked up in monetary companies now under liquidation. At the

present time persons are distressed, not so much from having lost some of

their money, as fi-om having been suddenly deprived of the use of all their
available cash, although, perhaps, only for a time. On Saturday nights
masters cannot pay their workpeople, and even private individuals are

placed in an awkward position from their inability to command a single

shilling. This difficulty might be easily met by the liquidator granting to
the creditor, on his releasing his debt, a certificate of indebtedness, payable
to bearer, or, where the sum is large, a number of certificates represent-
ing the total amount. These certificates would doubtless be immediately

marketable at a price, and also available as a security. Debtors to the

estates, and shareholders having calls to pay, would be glad to purchase
these certificates to extinguish their liabilities, and thus the company
would gradually liquidate itself. Perhaps an order in Chancery would
suffice to carry out this recommendation, or,, failing that, a short Act of

Parliament might be obtained to enforce it.

                                             (Signed)  ALFRED SMEE.

     PROPOSED FORM OF CERTIFICATE.

     Overend, Gurney, and Co. in liquidation.

     This is to certify that Messrs. Overend, Gurney, & Co.

     (Limited), in liquidation, is indebted to bearer 100.

     (Signed)                                          , Liquidator.

                              From the ' Standard? June 12, 1866.

     SIR, In my letter recommending that certificates of indebtedness to

bearer should be immediately issued by liquidators of the banks and

Icompanies, where so many companies are now locked up, omitted to

point out that the certificate would not place the holder ultimately in a
better position than the other creditors, as the bearer would receive the
same dividends under the bankruptcy.

      The advantage of issuing certificates of indebtedness to bearer would
consist in the grant of a document to the creditor, which might be readily
rendered marketable.

      The highest judicial authority has called my attention to the fact that
this scheme requires the sanction of Parliament, but surely Parliament
will not withhold an Act which must prove a blessing to many, and can
inflict an injury on none.

       These certificates of indebtedness would doubtless, as soon as issued,
bear a price in the market, according to the estimate of the amount which
the estate will realize, and the time in which that realization will be

effected.
No. XXX.]                   APPENDIX.                             355

      The indebtedness    of the Agra   Bank, the   Bank of London, or    the
Consolidated Bank,      would probably     command    an immediate price   of

50 or 60 per cent., whilst that of other companies would not sell for more
Ithan 20 or 30 per cent.
         hear in all directions that this scheme may save hundreds of respect-
able persons who have deposits now locked up in the Agra and other large
banking establishments, so that the question is one which demands atten-
tion and immediate action.

                                         (Signed)   ALFRED SMEE.

             From the ' Morning Advertiser,' June 12, 1866.

      SIR, My proposal to issue certificates of indebtedness to bearer for
money locked up in companies under liquidation appears to meet with
general approval, and it needs but parliamentary action to save creditors
now suffering from an inability to meet present requirements.

       These certificates would be useful under the three states which
liquidating companies present: firstly, when there are assets sufficient
to meet eventually the liabilities ; secondly, when the assets are ultimately
sufficient by making calls upon the shareholders ; and thirdly, when the
assets are insufficient even after exhausting the subscribed capital.

      When the assets equal the debts, the certificates would not only be
marketable instruments, but debtors could terminate their obligations by
purchasing them and paying them in as cash to the liquidator.

      For every 100 thus paid in 200 of transactions would be settled, and
thus the company would rapidly liquidate itself.

     It must be borne in mind that with liquidating banks debtors are

often great sufferers, from being suddenly compelled to pay an amount for
which, under any fair probability, time would be allowed.

       When calls upon shareholders are required, the certificate holders
would not only obtain a portion of their debt much sooner, and thus in

many cases be saved from ruin ; but the shareholders, by paying money
down, would lose a less amount, and in some cases be themselves saved

from ruin.

       When the total assets of the company are insufficient, a difficulty
apparently presents itself, but even here the certificates would be of

utility, as they might be used in payment of calls and debts, by which the
extent of the transactions would be narrowed every day ; and should the
certificates be ultimately found to be worth only 10s. instead of 1, the

parties paying the certificates as cash would be called upon to pay the

difference.

      Certificates of indebtedness might properly be called notes of liqui-
dation, and like bank-notes every one issued should be numbered, to confer

an individuality upon it, registered, and finally cancelled. A fee of 5s. for

stamping and registration would surely not be grudged, from the benefit
which would be conferred on all parties subject to the present terrible
process of liquidation, where creditors and debtors are alike sacrificed for

the benefit of accountants and lawyers.             ALFRED SMEE.

                                         (Signed)

                                                             2A2
356                       APPENDIX.                                   [No. XXX.

               From the ' Morning Advertiser' June 18, 1866.

      SIR, The money-locked-up public heard on Friday, with dismay, the
Right Hon. the President of the Board of Trade declare in the House of

Commons that Her Majesty's Government did not, as at present advised,
intend to apply for an Act to enable liquidators to issue certificates of

indebtedness.

     It appears that a singular misapprehension exists as to the nature of

the document proposed to be issued, as the sum indebted to the estate is
evidently confounded with the sum which will ultimately be paid.

     A certificate of indebtedness would be a certificate of the sum which

a bankrupt's estate is liable to pay to the creditor. This differs widely
from a certificate for actual payment. The one can be given at once, the

other can only be ascertained at the termination of the liquidation ; and
the certificates of indebtedness are equally applicable, whether the estate
ultimately pays 20s. or only one farthing in the pound.

      Again, some persons have erroneously considered that an Act for the

issue of these certificates has been proposed as an exceptional case to meet

the failure of certain banks and discount houses ; and because exceptional
legislation is bad, they reject the scheme.
      My proposition, however, is not particular, but universal, and instead
of applying to one firm applies to every case of bankruptcy and liquida-

tion ; for if the stoppage of the Agra Bank has involved its thousands, the

failure of smaller firms has involved their tens, and the tens are as worthy

of legislative care as the thousands.

     Sufferers cowed by misfortune have not the energy and courage to be

outspoken : but justice, no less than charity, demands that a scheme which

promises so much good to so many innocent persons, and which may

prevent so much wide-spread misery, should be considered either by a

Government commission or by a parliamentary committee, that no mis-

conception or misapprehension may prevent, if beneficial, its immediate

adoption.                                 (Signed)  ALFRED SMEE.

               From the Money Article of ' The Times' July 16, 1866.

      The following note relates to a point that might much mitigate the
suffering daily experienced in all parts of the kingdom from the recent

panic :        Sufferers  from locked-up                " London, July 14.
       " SIR,
                                          money earnestly hope that the
session will not pass away without a short Act being obtained to enable

the liquidators of insolvent companies to issue certificates of indebtedness

to bearer.

      " Had this Act been obtained earlier, much needless misery would have
been avoided ; but even now it would enable persons to raise funds who

are at the present time in the greatest embarrassment, simply because
they have money locked up, which will be ultimately paid, but upon which
they can obtain no advance, because they have no documents upon which

they can borrow.

     " It is now admitted by great lawyers, and most persons conversant

with monetary transactions, that certificates of indebtedness to bearer,

signed by a liquidator, would command their utmost value to shareholders
No. XXXI.]                                APPENDIX.                                 357

h-iving to pay calls, and to debtors of the estate, and that they could
beIalwaysn"egohtaiavteedtheathaonfaoilu- rmarket    price as a matter of business.
                                           to be,  your obedient servant,
                                                     " LOCKED-UP."

      [A monetary crisis in this country may unhappily arise, when it may
be considered expedient to carry out the above suggestions of Alfred Since.]

                                     No. XXXI.

ANONYMOUS LETTERS ON THE MANNER IN WHICH COM-
     PANIES IN LIQUIDATION WERE BEING CONDUCTED
     AFTER THE INSOLVENCY OF OVEREND, GURNEY, & CO.

       SIB, Who would now be a director P is a question you may well ask
in the ' Times,' in these days of prosecution at the Mansion House and
persecution by the Court of Chancery.

      Gentlemen who are now directors are timid to act, for they cannot tell

whether ten years hence some needy lawyer and briefless barrister, at the
instance of a penniless shareholder, may not impeach his action when all

the facts and reasons are forgotten. But the public suffer from this
incompetency of the Court of Chancery, or imbecility of the law. At the
present moment there are numerous undertakings of great importance,
and which are urgently required, which, although they have received the
sanction of Parliament, cannot be executed because they cannot raise
money, on account of the distrust which exists.

    If these works were earned out, the distress which now exists would

be averted, employment would be given to numerous workmen, and money
would be circulated in England instead of going abroad to benefit foreign
States.

     It is high time to inquire into the manner in which distrust is created

and families are ruined by the costly proceedings in Chancery, which
bring all legitimate enterprises into disrepute. From the date of the last
panic matters have gone continually from bad to worse, and at the present
time it is far more difficult to carry out a legitimate English enterprise
than it was a week after Black Friday.*

      The Government owe it to the country to frustrate the lawyers and
liquidators who are causing this distrust, and make them either settle up
their accounts of liquidating companies forthwith, or be discharged from
their office ; and if the Court of Chancery is too imbecile to deal with the
question, the Government should constitute a court of practical mercantile
men who can deal with the difficulty in a plain, sensible manner. Hoping
that the ' Times ' will never let the matter rest till Parliament interferes

I\vith these causes of distrust and restores confidence,
                                                     remain, Sir, yours obediently,
                                                                                                           TBUST.

       * The Friday after the failure of Ovcrend, Gurncy, and Co., in March
So many failures took place on that day that it was termed by the mercantile
community Black Friday.
358                     APPENDIX.             [No. XXXII.

      SIR, The observations made in the City article of the ' Times,' on the

hardship attending the delay in the distribution of the assets of share-
holders of banks with unlimited liability, apply with tenfold force to the
estates of shareholders of unlimited companies in liquidation.

      Insolvent companies are nominally wound up by the Court of Chan-
cery, but practically by accountants and lawyers, whose special object it is
to incur costs and procrastinate the liquidation. Some companies have
already been years in liquidation, and will remain so for years to come,
during which time no estate of a deceased shareholder can be divided.

     It is worthy of consideration whether the benefits of unlimited lia-

bility to creditors are not more than counterbalanced by the hardships
inflicted on the shareholders. By the Joint Stock Companies Act, any
pre-existing company was permitted either to register as a limited or

unlimited company ; but the Registrar holds, rightly or wrongly, that a
company, then having made its choice, is ever after prohibited from
changing its character.

      At the time when the Joint Stock Act was passed, the doctrine of

limited liability was novel, and shareholders of successful companies were

afraid to adopt it; but could the companies again be permitted to have
the choice, there are probably but few in this country which would not

assume a limited character, which, after all, is the only rational plan for

the conduct of a public company.
                                                         (Signed) LIMITED LIABILITY.

       January 21, 1873.

      SIR, Experience fully confirms the observations in the City article of
the ' Times,' that there are high-minded accountants who do their duty by
the liquidation of companies; nevertheless, there is a certain class of

lawyers who promote excessive litigation for the costs which they continue

to obtain.

    If any member of Parliament will move for the time occupied and the

costs incurred in the liquidation of unlimited companies, to say nothing of

the further cost which the contributories themselves are compelled to pay,
there will be such an amount of hardship and wrong-doing revealed that,

doubtless, some well-considered legislative enactment would be passed.

     In limited companies there is less temptation to incur these improper

costs, as there is only a certain amount of money to be spent, and the

creditors, as far as they can, take care that this undue waste does not

occur.

     January 29, 1873.              (Signed)  SHAREHOLDER.

                        No. XXXII.

     ON THE UNSEAWORTHINESS OF SHIPS SENT TO SEA.

     SIR, The shareholders of marine companies express great satisfaction
at the 'Insurance Times' having noticed the scandalous frauds which
Iwithin the last few years have been perpetrated on the shareholders of
marine companies.       have the pleasure to inform your readers that a
No. XXXII.]            APPENDIX.                                          359

plan has been devised for detecting the most flagrant delinquents, and that
some gentlemen who     have suffered   from these frauds will speedily take
action in the matter.                  to move for a return of every marine
                       It is intended
claim made upon every company in liquidation, stating the person who
brought the insurance to the office, the nature of the assurance, the sum
paid for the assurance, and the amount ultimately claimed. This
interesting little document will disclose the most frightful state of facts,
and will lead to the most vigorous legislation next session.

                                     (Signed)  MARINE SHAREHOLDER.

ISIR,        am a loser by marine insurance, having made an investment
I Iin a marine company now in liquidation. From inquiries made find that
the insurance of ships is not like any other business, carried on by the
directors personally, but devolves upon the underwriter entirely. The
underwriter becomes the sole responsible director, and settles what risks
are to be taken and at what price, and all the shareholders are absolutely
at his mercy ; for no matter how able or high-principled the directors may
IIfbe, they virtually have no power whatever in the matter.
                                                                   had known
I Ithis before, never would have become a shareholder ; and think your
paper would do good service if you would give the names of the under-
writers of every defunct company, as a warning to future investors. There

are strange reports afloat about underwriters and their doings of late.
                                                                   X. Z.
Manchester.                                              (Signed)

ISIR,  have been much upon the river Thames and had frequent

opportunities of conversing with the sailors. They say that frequently
when they are hired they find from the general cut of a ship that it is

intended to be lost. It is impossible to leave her, as by the law, if they do

not go, they would be liable to be sent to prison ; a matter which they

complain of as a very great hardship. Sometimes when a ship is doomed

to be lost, they find at the last moment that a sufficient assurance cannot

be effected upon her ; and then a telegram is sent to be very careful of the

ship, as she is not sufficiently insured. The sailors do not appear at all to

relish the risking of their lives for the owner of the ship to get the insurance

money, and they say that something ought to be done for their protection,

and that forthwith.

                                               (Signed)            CRUISER.

SIR, In the discussion which the ' Insurance Times ' has raised upon

marine insurance the question of property has alone at present been con-

I Isidered. Now do not care one jot for the property question, but have
a very decided opinion upon the sacrifice of life which the present destruc-
tion of ships produces. The sacrifice of the lives of our seamen is needless ;
and by the manner in which marine assurance is now practised, the loss
of a ship is too often a great benefit to the shipowner in a pecuniary sense,
although attended with a great loss of life to our brave sailors. Under any

circumstances, such strong legislative enactments should be provided as to

protect the lives of men who are too much at the mercy of the shipowners,
for all experience shows that those who profit by ship destruction care

nothing for the loss of human life.            (Signed)       YACHTSMAN.
360           APPENDIX.                             [No. XXXII.

     I ISIB,
     trust may be excused the liberty of asking for a small

Iportion of valuable space to write a few words upon marine insurance.

Unfortunately was a clerk in a winding-up marine insurance office, and

thus had ample opportunities of observing how the black-legs who effected

Ithe assurances proceeded in their nefarious practices. Before they brought

any business to the office always observed that those who intended to rob

the company were very minute in their inquiries as to the amount of un-

called capital. When quite satisfied upon that point, they began to honour

the company with their confidence. At first they brought two or three
unexceptionable risks, amongst which they introduced one a little doubtful,

so that all might be taken together. Then by degrees they gradually

slipped into the office their peculiar assurances of ships to go to the
bottom cargo, sailors, and all. When this business was at the height, it
was curious to observe how broker Mr. A. was jealous of broker Mr. B.,
and would go away if he spied him in the office doing his little bits of

iniquity. Each man greatly preferred to see the underwriter alone and be

closeted with him unseen ; and as soon as he had done his business, there

Iwas always a desire to slide away from the office as quick as possible. knew

them all, and hated the sight of them ; and only wondered how the under-

writer could be talked over by these villains. The directors came every

day to sign the policies to which their underwriter had committed them,

and vainly imagined that they were only transacting first-class business.

IThey had no more control over the risks which were taken than had as a
junior clerk. After a little

I Imen used to come and say, "
              time claims began to come in. The same
               have got a little claim, which should take
Ias a personal favour if you would settle at once.  will leave you the pro-
Itest, and will call again to-morrow, when have several good risks for you."
I read many of these protests in sheer amazement. The captain used to
say that in latitude so and so, longitude so and so, a wind sprung up,

which gradually increased. He then ordered the pumps to be sounded,
and found there was some water. After a few hours' pumping he tried
again, and found more water. He then saw it was no use pumping any

more, so he told the men to get the boat ready, which they lowered. Then

the wind began to blow a good deal harder, and he told the men that

to save their lives they must get into the boat. They rowed about three

or four hours to know what became of the ship, when at some precise minute

to some hour the ship went down head foremost in veiy deep water. He
saw it was no use remaining, so he told the men to row ashore, as the wind
was blowing a hurricane. And the protest finished by protesting against

the winds and waves, and he ever would protest against the winds and
waves ; and the whole of this precious document is verified by the British

consul at the port where the crew landed.

      Lots of ships are never heard of when over-insured ; and bullion,
which nobody ever saw before it was put on board, always went down in
such very deep water that the directors had no chance of getting it up

again. After a few of these eligible risks the customers began again to

inquire into the stability of the office, and make their own personal inquiries
whether each shareholder could pay his subscribed quota. As soon as they
put on the company as many risks as they thought it could bear, they
began to withdraw, and speak in very virtuous indignation because the

company was not at once wound up, and at last they were most particular
No. XXXII.]                      APPENDIX.                                361

to endeavour to get one of their clique to be liquidator. The consequence
of this was that their claims were all admitted, and the poor shareholders
squeezed to their uttermost farthing, and abused by those who robbed

Ithem. My heart quite ached for the poor shareholders, who were so

cruelly cheated. Apologizing for so long a letter, am,

Oamberwell.                                        (Signed)  MARINE OLEBK.

      SIR, Your   correspondent in  "thgeanlagst"  week's number   of the ' Insurance
Times ' protests  against the word                  as applied to  those who defraud

marine insurance offices. The whole tenour of the letters to your paper
clearly demonstrates that there is an extensive organization, widely
scattered, who derive their wealth from these practices. The word " gang,"
Ihowever, is so generally applied to convicts that it is hardly applicable to
a set of men    not convicted.   "Ffoorr  exactness of language would suggest
the use of the  word " sea-thug           all those who obtain improperly money

from underwriters  and marine insurances. From               this appropriate term we
should derive the  verb " to sea-thug," and the              abstract principle " sea-

thuggery." Hereafter they may be described as Liverpool sea-thugs, London
sea-thugs, Glasgow sea-thugs, Lloyds' sea-thugs, et signa sunt gimilia.

St. Pancras.                              (Signed)           WORD FANCIER.

      SIR, Mr. Plimsoll has done good service to the State by having called
the attention of Parliament to the unnecessary yearly destruction of the
lives of more than 500 brave sailors.

     In his admirable speech, however, Mr. Plimsoll did not fully realize

to his own mind the important manner in which all the evidence shows
that marine insurance has led to this excessive mortality.

       Insurances are effected beyond the value of the thing assured. The
loss of the object assured is thus an event to be desired, because it produces
a pecuniary gain. The desire for the event leads to its occurrence. Ships
and goods are desired to be lost. Ships are consequently wrecked, and

therefore the poor sailors perish.
       Marine insurance leads directly to the following results :

1. Ships are scuttled.                             for valuable freight.
2. Ships are burnt.
3. Ships are run ashore.

4. Ships are deserted.
5. Ships are sailed unsound.
6. Ships are imperfectly stored.
7. Ships are shortly manned.
8. The freight is uncared for.

9. Valueless articles are substituted

      Whenever any of these events happens a claim arises. Insurers are
defrauded, and the lamentable consequences to underwriters, shareholders
of marine companies, and to bond fide assurers, so graphically depicted by
the correspondents of the ' Insurance Times,' are brought to pass.

      The first object in a civilized country is the preservation of life, and
the second the protection of property; hence the temptation to fraud
which marine assurance offers, by the destruction of property and conse-
quent loss of life, should be restrained by legislative enactments.
362                APPENDIX.                             [No. XXXIII.

     There are reasons to suppose that ships doomed to destruction, together

with their cargoes, are frequently assured to many times their value.

     No insurance ought to be permitted beyond three-quarters of the value

of the object assured, so that the owner may have a direct interest in the

preservation of the thing assured.
     Any enactment should provide against the probability of the payment

of a claim beyond the intrinsic value of the object assured. This might

be done by the public registration of every claim paid.
      "With regard to the past, perhaps it would be more magnanimous to
let bygones be bygones ; but if it be thought advisable to make an example
to deter others, then it is manifest that the archives of all the winding-up

marine companies would supply ample materials for a wholesale punish-

ment of the worst offenders.
      The exposures which have already taken place in the ' Insurance Times '

are reported already to have made the stoutest hearts of the delinquents to
quake, but Parliament next session will take care that marine insurance

shall no longer lead to the death of sailors and the destruction of ships.

     Westminster.                   (Signed)             JUDEX.

     SIR, There is a phase of marine insurance which has not as yet been

noticed by any of your correspondents, and that is the bearing which the

electric telegraph has upon the results of marine insurance. In former
times every marine risk offered was a fair insurance risk, as the result was

unknown. Now, however, the electric telegraph extends so far, and com-

municates its intelligence so rapidly, that persons are able to effect

insurances after the event has happened. As a matter of fact it is
possible now to hear of a loss of a vessel in America, and assure the
vessel, if lost in Europe, by the clock time before it was lost. To assure a

Contingent event after the event has happened is no insurance at all, but
direct, downright robbery, and yet it has been known that ships have been

chartered to convey the intelligence of the loss of a vessel to the nearest

electric telegraph station, from which a telegram has been sent directing

assurances to be effected upon a lost vessel. Neither insurance offices nor

underwriters can stand against claims arising in this manner, and the only

wonder is that this class of cheating has not been described before.  R. Y.

                                    (Signed)

                                 No. XXXIII.

        ANONYMOUS LETTERS ON CHANCERY REFORM.

                                    CHANCERY LIQUIDATIONS.
      Remarkable stories are current amongst the members of the Bar, of
the power which some liquidators claim to possess as officers of the Court
of Chancery, and more wonderful facts are narrated of the means by which
some of these appointments have been obtained.

     In some liquidations every legal quibble is raised. Acts done for the
No. XXXIII.]                      APPENDIX.                   363

common good are misrepresented. Bygone transactions are questioned.
Fraud is freely imputed.   Agreements acted upon for years
Every possible proceeding  in law or equity is taken to make  are repudiated.
                                                               costs ; and the
very costs themselves are sometimes the subject of arrangement between
the liquidators and the lawyers.

       Teriified contributories submit to any extortion. Even security for
money is exacted from their families or connections by the threat of
breaking up their homes. Some, maddened by a sense of persecution,
become insane. Some commit suicide, stupefied by despair. Some perish
from disease, caused by protracted anxiety. Some go abroad to die in
other lands ; and others become reckless, declaring that there is neither
justice nor mercy for a contributory.

      Some liquidations have existed for years, and will continue for years
to come. Other liquidations have paid no dividend to this day. The
expenses of some liquidations have eaten up nearly the entire estate.
Nevertheless, all this is done under the pretence of the sanction of the
High Court of Parliament.

The Chancery judges have shown themselves to be as helpless as
creditors are to restrain the power which liquidators have assumed ; but
what the Court cannot do, Parliament must.

SHALL LIFE ASSUEANCE COMPANIES CHANGE THEIR DOMICILES TO

      AVOID THE MEDDLING INTERFERENCE OF GOVERNMENT, AND THE

      PERNICIOUS JURISDICTION OF THE COURT OF CHANCERY?

      FELLOW POLICY-HOLDERS, The dangers to which we are exposed
demand immediate action, as our property is continually in peril.
Unprincipled persons are always seeking to destroy the credit of the
various offices in which we are assured. Some desire to ingratiate them-
selves with the Board of Trade to become its referee. Some hope to gain
the inordinate fortunes which liquidators obtain. Needy lawyers are
always on the alert to destroy a company, that they may bring actions
and Chancery suits against the unhappy contributories ; and it is even
alleged that black mail is often sought to be extorted from directors,
under threat of attacking the company, or the presentation and adver-
tising of a winding-up petition.

      Judges in Chancery have given evidence that they are powerless to
prevent these iniquities, although they must be held, by the public,
responsible for them. Chancery courts open up questions settled
years before, and thus tend to demoralize the community by teaching
them repudiation. Persons first seek, by the aid of a meddling Govern-
ment, to lower the credit of the company ; then, as soon as its credit is
impaired, it becomes food for the harpies of Chancery, who get enormous
incomes, and realize large fortunes, by the ruin of innocent men. The
legal profession, besides, talk of a scandal which no man dare tackle. Any
attempt to cleanse the Augean stable must be a vain mockery : nothing
less than the abolition of the Courts of Chancery can suffice. The judges
should be called upon to frame laws, that men may know the law and
obey it : and the judges should no longer exercise their individual will by
364                            APPENDIX.  [No. XXXI1L

the interpretation of the motives and equities of transactions, years after
their occurrence, upon the garbled statements of counsel and lawyers,
who stir up strife to live upon the contention. Men of fortune and
position now fear to undertake the duties of director, and yet for the
conduct of Life Assurance we want men as upright as the judges

themselves.

      England is the only country in Europe subject to the caprice of
Chancery. All other nations view it with the intensest horror. Here one

honourable judge praises an act done under difficult circumstances, whilst

another equally honourable judge, upon the same facts and xipon the
arguments of the same counsel, declares the same act to be fraudulent,
and condemns the innocent victim in ruinous costs. Unprincipled lawyers

employ unscrupulous counsel, supposed to have private influence, and to
have the faculty of using strong language where the profits of a liquidation
are at stake ; and there have been scenes in court as to facts, so great is
the voracity of the vultures, when they see a prospect of a carcase to

devour. Some liquidations have taken years when they might have been

settled in months, but for Chancery. Contributories have been ruined;

and what the creditors should have had, the lawyers, liquidators, and

counsel got.

    If Chancery cannot be abolished, and all its terrible demoralizing

machinery swept away, Life Policy-holders should require that their
companies be removed to some other kingdom, out of the jurisdiction of

the English Chancery, and away from the pernicious meddling of the

English Government officials.             TRIPLE POLICY-HOLDER.

                      JUDGES AND THEIR FAMILY RELATIVES.

      The propriety of barristers practising in courts of law presided over
by their relatives now demands consideration, as the matter requires
immediate action.

      The legal profession condemn the practice, as the public never can
respect decisions given under such circumstances.

     Rightly or wrongly, suitors anticipate defeat if a relative of the judge

is employed on the opposite side.
      On account of this prevalent idea, crafty solicitors seek to retain the

relation, whereby injustice is inflicted on other members of the Bar, and

dissatisfaction caused to the public.
      When suitors hear a relative of the judge make an unfounded state-

ment, or use strong language, they fear that their cause will be lost, and
when lost they believe the decision to be unjust.

     It is agreed on all hands that a relation of a judge must, in future,

be prohibited from acting before him.
      This rule may press heavily upon some banisters, but the time has

come when public opinion demands that barristers should not practise
before judges who are their family relatives.
No. XXXIII.]               APPENDIX. ,                             365

                                        CHANCEBY REFORM.

      The present session of Parliament is passing away ; but the infirmities
of the Courts of Chancery remain.

      Our estimable Lord Chancellor, anxious to do good, has done much
harm, by seeking to change the Court of Final Appeal, which has ever
commanded the confidence of the Bar, whilst he has neglected to reform
the Courts of Equity, in which the scandals occur that are so justly the
subject of universal complaint.

      The will of the Equity judge is absolute law, and great fear is inspired

when the opposing lawyer leads to the supposition that he has private
access to the judge.

      As the Equity judge is all-powerful, he must be held responsible for the
shortcomings of his chief clerks, for the misdeeds of his liquidators, and
for the cost-makings of the lawyers practising in his court.

      The Bar have a right to complain when they are not permitted to speak
upon briefs which have been prepared with anxious care and enormous
cost ; suitors will complain when the judge refuses his attention to hear
the arguments : and both the Bar and the public marvel when the judge
sleeps during the statement of the case, and only wakes to give judgment
upon that of which he knows nothing.

      The public will no longer tolerate the fortunes of a suitor to be im-
perilled by the dictum of one man, subservient as it may be to prejudice,
to influence, to infirmity, or to temper. A twinge of the gout, a fit of sleep,
or an indiscretion in the diet of a judge, may make or mar the happiness
of a family for ever.

     It is cruel mockeiy in many cases to suggest an appeal. The costs

are ruinous, and the deposit of the money at issue in most cases imprac-
ticable. To appeal is to be hung first, to be tried afterwards.

     It is the duty of the Bar to ensure justice, and they now declare that
it is necessary for that object that every court should be presided over by

two judges, who, on failure of concurring in a decision, should call in a
third. Every judge should retain the vigour of youth to appreciate the
facts, and possess the maturity of age to adjudicate upon them ; all others
should retire from the bench.

                           THE SLEEPING JUDGE.

The Equity Bar has for some years past been placed in a painful
position by one of their esteemed judges being unable to keep awake on

the bench.
      Sooner or later the feebleness of age will overtake us all, but sound

sleep on the bench must be regarded as incompatible with judicial

functions.
      Suitoi-s are frantic when they find that their case has never been

heard. The Bar do their best to make the judge hear, for when he awakes,
to their horror he decides upon a different state of facts, from only having

heard a part of the case.
A growing discontent and distrust of the decisions of the Chancery
                       amongst the public, as they allege that it  is natural
judges is observable   age should rest upon the vigour of youth    ; and this
that the infirmity of
366       APPENDIX.  [No. XXXIV.

has been increased by the injudicious, and doubtless false, boastings of

certain low class lawyers.
      The Bar unite in considering that the time has come when the judge

who daily cannot refrain from sleeping on the bench should rest on his
former well-earned laurels, when everyone will heartily wish him a long
and happy life to enjoy that to which we may all fairly aspire otium

cum dignitate.

                                        CHANCERY REFORM.

      The highest expectations are entertained by the Chancery Bar of the
reforms anticipated to be made by the learned and earnest mind now pre-
siding over our Courts of Equity ; but much may be done before his great
scheme of reform can be perfected and brought into operation.

      Any judge who, from peculiarity of habit or infirmity of age, sleeps
on the bench during the argument, should gracef ully retire, and two judges
should preside over each of the lower courts, to satisfy suitors that
partiality for any particular advocate does not exist.

      The scandal of the present combination of liquidator and lawyer has
arisen from modern legislation, and is one of the worst features of Chancery
administrations. Needy accountants and wit-making lawyers now get a
higher remuneration than the Yice-chancellors themselves, by using the
funds of the creditors to harass contributories for their own gain, and
matters which might be settled in five minutes now frequently occupy as

many years.
       Unfortunately but few of our present Equity judges have been behind

the scenes to know the working of this machinery, which has caused so
much dissatisfaction ; but they must perceive that a restriction of the
discretionary powers of liquidators is now absolutely necessary.

      By careful regulations a court of appeal may be rendered less neces-
sary, and confidence in the administration in the Court of Chancery

restored.

A GOSSIP                     No. XXXIV.

          ABOUT GARDENING. A Lecture delivered impromptu,
          December 4, 1871. By ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S.

ABOUT two thousand years ago, the great poet Horace said that the height
of his ambition was to have a garden with a crystal stream running
through it, and also a small wood.

    IThat also is my case, and my wish, as suppose his was, has been
Igratified ; and on this occasion will shortly give you an account of the

philosophy by which we conduct our garden, and of some of the more
remarkable plants which are grown therein.

     All plants, as you know, are organized beings which require certain
forces for their development. In the first place, it is absolutely necessary
that they have a sufficient supply of the light of the sun. Light is one of

the most important physical agents which we use. Some plants require
the full light of the sun, for instance, the cucumber as grown in our
No. XXXIV.]                    APPENDIX.                                     367

frames; others require it more subdued, for instance, the ferns which
grow  in the caves. Then again, we    are obliged to shield some of our plants
from  the light, such as the orchids  ; and lastly, we have to grow some in

dark caves, as in the case of some fungi, and       other of the lower plants
which require almost a total exclusion of light.     Now with regard to light,
we place our plants which require little light on a North aspect, and those
which require much light on a South aspect, but we must also shade our
houses. One of the best plans for shading is to make use of coloured
glass, which filters out many of the rays. This plan is adopted in the
Royal Gardens at Kew, where it seems to answer very well. At Paris they
have series of pantile laths placed side by side, leaving a little gap between
them ; and lastly we cut off the light from many of our plants by putting
a linen shade over our   houses. Now, unless
may give up all idea of                          you regulate the   light,   you
                         cultivation. It is no  use to try without  it, for  you

cannot succeed.

      Well then, besides light, every plant requires a certain amount of

heat, and unless it has this it will not grow. It will be in vain for you to

try to grow the sugar-cane in this climate ; it would be in vain for you to
try to grow the geranium in Jamaica : for the sugar-cane would not

have enough heat here, and the geranium would have too much heat in
Jamaica, so  that in either case the
know, then,  the right temperature    plant would   bpeladnetstwroilyl edg.rowY. ouIfmyuosut
                                      at which the

Iemploy more heat than what is required, as is usual in this country, your

plant will die. When was at Florence, a botanist told me that he could not
grow Alpine plants there, the climate was too hot. With regard to heat a

very curious thing must be noticed, and that is, that heat must be applied

at certain intervals. Heat and light must be applied to every plant, so

that the plant rests and then grows, and then rests again. Best is as
necessary to a plant as it is to man, and many of our plants are not able

to be successfully grown because we are not able to give them their precise

intervals of rest and growth as in their native spots. The Alpine plants
in the summer are exposed to the full heat of the sun, but in winter they

are kept warm by a thick covering of snow.
      Now, not only do we have these considerations of light and heat, but a

certain condition of the atmosphere is absolutely necessary to vegetation ;

there must be a certain amount of moisture in the air. It must be dry at
the right time, it must be wet at the right time; and unless you are
acquainted with the proper time to apply moisture and to withhold it, your
Ifgarden will be a failure. Take the delicate vine : it sprouts in spring and
requires the air to be moist.  you expose it to a dry atmosphere, you
injure the tissues of the plant ; but if you carry on your moisture above a
certain point, the plant will keep on growing and be injured. During the
period when the leaves are sprouting a damp atmosphere is necessary ; as
it forms its berries the atmosphere is gradually dried, and when the fruit
attains perfection you give all the air and light you can, and a much drier

atmosphere than you had before.
      Now we all know that electricity is an important agent in nature.

Some years ago some extraordinary ideas were put forward as to the effects

of electricity upon plants. So far as we know, at the present moment, all
we can say is, that we know not at all what effect electrical force has upon
plants, either upon their growth or maturation. Experiments were tried
368                          APPENDIX.                    [No. XXXIV.

by placing wires over plants in the hope that electricity might be excited,
Ibut they were all useless.
                             have myself kept plants under considerable
I Itension in a room in a house, but could see no effect whatever, and
may fairly say that we have not the remotest notion of the way in which
electricity will affect a plant. But we see what electricity will do in the
violent discharge which takes place in a thunderstorm : if a tree is struck,
the lightning goes down it just under the bark, and then jumps to the
ground where it is wet or damp, so that the bark of the tree is peeled off,

Iand this is one of the common effects of an electric discharge on a growing

tree. have the figure of a tree which was struck in the grounds of a

friend of mine. It stood in a field where some hurdles were placed, and
the electric discharge could be traced from the tree to a point where these

hurdles entered the ground. This may be taken as the effect of lightning
Iupon a tree. Those stories which we hear of trees dying because struck

by lightning are merely fables ; and as far as have seen, in many in-
stances the effect which is produced is that the bark is thrown off and
torn and loosened all round the tree. With regard to the immediate

effects produced by electricity on the growth of plants, nothing is known,
and in my opinion it has no important effect on vegetation at all.
      But having a knowledge of these forces and even using them aright,
the plant will not grow unless put in proper earth. A peach in a pot will
never bear fruit unless you have hammered down the earth about its roots
as hard as you can, and one great expense in growing these plants is that

a great many pots are broken by the force which has to be applied in thus

hammering the earth. The mallet is used so that the roots come in
contact with the earth, and then the plant will do well.
     Now the camellia, treated in the same way, will surely die, for the

Iroots of the camellia require a more porous earth, and the distribution of
the material among them should be light and peaty.        may mention that
in Florence, where the camellia was first introduced into Europe from
Japan by a monk of the name of Camella, they grow their plants in rotten
Ichestnut wood, and in that
Iin one garden the gardener                 much struck with this, and
                 only.       "    was very     receive plants from your
                  said,         Yes, when
I Icountry, shake off

have tried camellias
                 all the stuff you  put them in and change the soil."
                 in various soils.
                                    If you put them in loam, it will kill
Ithem. have tried them in rotten wood and tan, and find them to grow
admirably well. This shows the necessity for a particular sort of soil to

the growth of a plant. It must have certain ingredients, and these ought
to be sought for in the analysis of the ashes of the plant. Our knowledge
on this point is in a most imperfect state, but we may say that almost and

perhaps all plants require a certain amount of phosphates and a certain

amount of potash. These are essential. There are other particular

materials in specific plants. The grasses require a large amount of flint
in their composition. Other plants require other definite salts, but potash
and lime seem to be required by all, and it would be as impossible to
grow them without these bodies as it would be to grow them without

light and heat.

      Now this brings us to another point; how are plants nourished?

They are nourished from certain constituents of the atmosphere. A
certain amount of carbonic acid exists in the air, and it is from that that
the fibre of a plant is made. With regard to the nitrogenous materials
No. XXXIV.]                APPENDIX.                                       369

found in the composition of plants, they take it from the ammonia and
nitrates in the soil.
Under all these conditions you will succeed ; without all these condi-

tions you can never be a successful horticulturist.

      We know how to grow our plants ; now what plants are we to grow,

and how are we to obtain them P In the first place we obtain them from
seeds. But what do we obtain from seeds ? A plant of a like species to
that from which the seed came. Of a like species, but likely to vary some-
what. There are certain limits to variation, but those limits of variation
are marked. Take the wild crab, which is so acrid that you cannot eat it :
compare that with the ribstone pippin. There is a wide difference between
them, but within the limit of variation. Take a wild pear, compare that
with the delicious pear of the present day, and the variation is enormous,
yet it is within the limit of variation, and horticulturists have never found
Ithat one species transforms itself into another.
                                                     may say from experience
Ithat have never seen anything which could indicate to my mind that one
Ispecies of plant could be converted into another, and do not believe that
there is any conversion of one into another, but simply that each species,
by itself, exhibits varieties which differ greatly sometimes, but are always
Iwithin the limit of variation, the progeny being only varieties of the same

species, and not being different species. This believe to be the sum and

substance of all that is true of what is familiarly known as Darwinism.

Well, we have then from our seed a plant with a certain likeness to

the preceding plant, but which has this difference, that members raised
from the seeds of the same plant exhibit certain peculiarities. We, there-

fore, want to propagate any good variety that turns up ; how do we
proceed to propagate an improved variety ? Without knowing how to do
this we could not get on, and it is a matter of fundamental importance.
We want commonly to grow that which is improved ; how then shall we
propagate that improved variety which is turned up by accident or by high

cultivation ? In the first place, a convenient mode of propagating a plant
is by layering it. This is done by putting a part of the plant under the
ground, when it will take root and will be part of the original plant with
roots of its own, and you can cut it off and it then grows as an independent
plant, and that propagation of the original plant may take place to any
extent. Sometimes we want to propagate in a more remarkable manner,
and then we put part of one plant on part of another. This operation is
Igrafting.     cut off a shoot of one plant and put the shoot of another in
Iits place, then have the last variety growing upon a stock of the first.
It may be a saddle graft, where a notch is cut in one part to fit the other ;
or it may                  graft, where the two cut parts  are  side by side, or a
           be  a whipped   one and the other thrust into   it.  But there is one
hole may   be  cut in the
condition on which only you can be successful : you must bring the new
wood of the one against the new wood of the other. By this process we
               trees that we like upon another stock.
multiply any   propagate the same individual by the division    of  bulbs  or by
      Then we
dmwtphaiaavernkeidtesnietnteaogdnpc,yluatwhnlptehtia,vicrartaohtinoectdmusl,taaihtyraesisvgsaiiavnormeinetlethyuyesvbacAyarominpeataltiasynrpnyueatlelscisiwawtloietthrmpibhroeoasd.dodemucbeoeYefofsoptulrhiregoes,hpetwaesagedtmahimtfeeifoenunrvseattnrhcniteaheotatyttfwrryeohwesmeeoanrrtctwahbtneoey
                                                                    2B
370                       APPENDIX.           [No. XXXIV.

year. That is a very important point. In the propagation of our fungi

the same thing occurs ; the fungi have very small spores, which answer to

Ifthe seeds of other plants. They start, throw out minute threads, and give
rise to a new plant.      we come across a particularly good mushroom, it is
no use to try and propagate it by the spores. This must be done by the

mycelium, which consists of minute threads which traverse the ground in

which the mushroom grows, and which is commonly known as mushroom
spawn. By this we can propagate any particular variety. So that the

modes of propagation of plants are, the propagation of different varieties

by seeds, and the propagation of any specific variety by cuttings, grafting,

division of roots, budding, by spores, and by many other ways.

    IHaving noticed those great points upon which we must base our

operations in order to ensure successful horticulture, should like in
imagination to take you round my garden, and say a few words about the
Iplants which grow in it.

        will first say a few words about the vegetables. They are not the
most interesting perhaps, though you all know how important they are.

You know it has been said that more people have perished from want

of vegetable food than have ever perished in battle, and probably at

the present time there are as many lives saved by taking vegetable
food to sea as ever were lost by sending ships to sea. With this before

us we have to consider what vegetables we should grow. To my mind,

the king of all vegetables is the watercress. To have it at its best it
must be grown in a very pure stream of water, which ought to come

from the depths of the earth at the temperature of those depths, say

52 F., and then ought to run over a clean pebbly bed. To start, you take a

handful of watercresses and put a stone upon them, then another and so on

until you have covered the space on which you want them to grow ; and
then, if you pick them fresh from the brook, they are one of the most
wholesome vegetables which the country can afford. But you often see

them grown upon the verge of sewage beds, and then consequences may
arise from eating them which are almost too serious for me to contemplate.
You have heard of the terrors of the tapeworm; you know that it may
Ifconsist of two or three hundred joints, and that each of these may contain
about 30,000 ova.     you consider that these are common in the sewage
beds and that they are so distributed to the watercress plant, and if you
consider that they are thus taken into the animal economy, you may judge
the danger there is in using watercresses, and the necessity for preventing
their sale under those circumstances. When they are sold in the neigh-
bourhood of large towns, the danger is much greater than those who eat
Ithem are aware of. We cannot all get perfectly pure and fresh water-

cresses, but can. My crystal brook comes to my aid. But we cannot all

have this crystal brook.
     Now mustard is always at hand. We buy mustard, but we get rape

seed. These two are very much alike, and there are very few who can tell
the difference. But there is a total difference in their quality, and what
we pay for we ought to have. But those who sell, think they ought to sell
us the cheapest article at the dearest rate.
     I IBut will not detain you with the salading plants, will not take you
Ithrough the various herbs, except that will say one word upon one of
Ithem.  have a plant of absinthe, not to use myself or to give my friends,
No. XXXIV.]            APPENDIX.                                         371

IitbnhuitsPataorbissp.inotihnFetr,otmoanadsfoaurdhatanovgeseirxcoouons'sculpoltlcaekndti.nmtyhAebbsraionftttehhrenerooismn,endoewicvaedlryruponnraekcteiisntioodrnrmienorkusisnloygf
France, who say that many brain diseases and epileptic fits are produced
by taking this pernicious herb. Therefore, if you have it, have it to
I Ishow persons that they may not introduce it into this country.
will pass from vegetables to fruit trees.           like fruit, and I find that
most of my visitors do not object to it also. Let us begin with the apple.
We all liked apples as children, and not only do children like them, but
Ithe geese, and not only geese but the fowls, and not only the fowls but

horses, and not only horses but the oxen ; and know this because my bull
got out and ate up a whole tree of apples, tree and all. Now the varieties
of apples are mere varieties of the wild crab. They are all within the limit
of the variation we may obtain of any one plant, and they are not new
Ispecies. But these varieties are very numerous :
Ithree hundred kinds.                                  have more than

                       believe there are one or two thousand varieties
which are not recorded. Many varieties are obtained by horticultural
processes. Now, with good management, we ought to have an apple for
every day in the year. You begin with a little apple which ripens in July.
You go on step by step until you have apples ripening at Christmas. You
go on again until March, and then you still have apples, for there are
some which do not become ripe until March, and we finish off with the
French crab in June, which is not only in perfection then, but will last

over a second year ; and so by a little careful adjustment we may have not
only culinary, but also eating apples all the year round. About thirty to
forty kinds are amply sufficient for this purpose.
IfThen we come to the pear ; but pears are either very fine or very bad,
and we must make a much more careful selection.        we begin by the end
Iof July with a
                 small early pear,  and   go on from one to    another,    we can
have fruit well  into the winter.   That   delicious pear the  " Marie   Louise,"

may say in parenthesis, was raised by Van Mons, a Dutchman. There is

an enormous number of different varieties, and in selecting a variety you

have to go over an extensive range to find one truly fine pear.

Now we go to work in a particular manner with pears to obtain quick
produce. "He who grows pears grows for his heirs," is an old saying.
Yirgil says, "Plant pears, and thy posterity shall gather the fruit." But
we know how to get them much sooner. We must proceed in a true horti-

cultural manner for this purpose. We cut the shoot of a pear-tree true off
and plant it upon a quince. By grafting it in this way we render the pear-
tree fertile, and then in a year or two we get fruit which we might have
had to wait twenty years for if the tree had been grown in the ordinary
way. It is to be observed that the quince stock should be cut off close to
the ground, not under the ground, or else the pear will throw out roots
and you will be no better off than if you had planted the pear-tree.
Having planted our pear-trees, we must train them in a particular
way. We so arrange that the quince stock comes exactly level with the
ground, then all the upper part is the pear-tree, and this must be trained
in a certain manner to allow the light and warmth to come upon the fruit.
We cut the branches into the form of a pyramid, as near as may be, to
look like a Jack-in-the-green. Every branch is exposed to the sun and
light, and upon every branch, there we get the pears.
                                                               2B2
372                             APPENDIX.  [No. XXXIV.

      We pass from the pears to the plums, which are secondary ; and from

Ithose to the grape-vines, which have already told you how to manage ;
Iand pass from those to the nut-trees, where you must notice the two
blossoms, from one of which the catkins, the male part of the flower, come

out early in January and February. Then a little red flower comes out,
and that is the female part of the flower, so that it is divided into two
parts, and this is a very interesting thing to observe. The first time in

February you have the opportunity, examine that pretty little flower, for

very few have ever noticed it.
    IThe time runs on, and when one gets into a favourite subject one may

go on a much longer time than could speak to you, or you would care

to hear me.                                                   am a lover

    I I IFor the flowers and plants must tell you what grow.
of ferns. Fern roots do not like to be soddened in water and do not like to

be dry : now you must find the happy medium. They should be never dry,
ever moist, and yet neither too dry nor too moist. The best way to manage
that is to plant them upon a bank. And what happens ? There is always
moisture draining through the earth, and the wet is always running away

from the roots, and if you plant them in that way you will have as luxuriant

specimens as are to be seen anywhere. Now ferns you know as a rule like
a little shade, not too much, however. There are some which will bear the

full blaze of the sun. The Osmunda regalis and the beautiful feathery
fern bear well the light of the sun ; but next in order we come to those
Idelicate ferns which will not bear so much light, and these we must put
in another situation.  have never succeeded in growing the fern of
ITunbridge Wells without shelter. It is a most delicate tfern, and is

altogether a most charming plant. But the way can manage, with most
perfect success, is to bury in the ground a little square box, put in the
fern, and then put a piece of glass over it : that is sufficient to protect
it from the wind and to keep up a continual moisture, and it never
Igets materially frozen ; and so, many of these tender ferns may be grown
to perfection.  have grown in this way that wonderful fern which was
discovered by Captain Cook in New Zealand, the Todea superba, so you
will see what may be done by a simple protection of glass. Sometimes we

adopt other plans : we make a little pocket for the plant by putting two or

three stones round it in a little hole, and so it has the advantage of full

light and air and yet is protected. There are many exotic ferns, however,
which will grow out of doors as well as the English ferns, but we carry

their outward growth to a greater extent by housing some of the delicate
ones in the winter and putting them out of doors in the summer. In this
way the large tree-ferns will grow, and show their forms remarkably well.
In this way many ferns from other parts of the world will grow success-

fully. This is what we cannot do altogether out of doors ; we have to
shelter them in a house, and there, by a judicious arrangement, we can

obtain that creation of the poet's idea, perpetual summer. To go into my
house in winter when all there is beautiful and green, and then to come

out and regard the snow and ice and naked trees, is an effect which is as
Iremarkable as it is beautiful.
          do not altogether neglect the gaudy flowers which are known as
florists' flowers, where geraniums are selected as monstrosities and where

many other plants are grown in the same way ; but though these are showy
No. XXXIV.]                APPENDIX.                               373

Ithey are not to be classed with the lovely Alpine flowers which decorate the
mountains in the Apennines and Pyrenees.     have many hundred species
of these. They can be grown with perfect ease on one condition, that you
Iallow no gardener to dig amongst them, and that you leave them carefully
alone as soon as they are established.       know of no greater pleasure than

to select your flower on the mountain and bring it home to plant in youi
garden, and then to see them as reminiscences of the beautiful scenes you

Ihave before seen. My Alpinery is a very delightful place to me. always

go there to see what flower is out ; the last was the Lily of the field of the

IBible, the plant to which were applied those celebrated words which will

not now venture to repeat. That is an Amaryllis. In the sandy places
where it grows, it comes up and makes a display of bright flowers. Then

there are  the Saxifrages, and the grass of  Parnassus, which was  thought  so
beautiful  as to be dedicated to the Muses.                        Whitby
                                               It may be found in           in
Iquantities. Then there is another plant in the Alpinery which must
notice, the Linncea borealis. It is the smallest of all the honeysuckles, and
that great naturalist chose it as a type of himself, because it had so lowly
an origin. He obtained permission from the king to use it in his coat-
Iof-arms. It is a very scarce plant, and can hardly describe the pleasure
I Ihave found in seeing it in a wood in Aberdeenshire.
                                                        brought a large
block with the earth on in triumph home with me, and there it grows. We

are not restricted to foreign plants ; our very woods and fields are beautiful

with flowers. There is no more beautiful plant than the marsh marigold ;
to see it growing in spring is a sight not to be forgotten. Its perfection
of form renders it a plant which is one of the beauties of our streams. The

purple loosestrife which grows by the banks of the Thames renders them a
perfect flower garden. When we find the wild digitalis, the wild violet,
the wild honeysuckle, and many other plants, we may say that there is a

Ibeautiful flower garden in our woods. was never more struck than when
I Isaw some drawings of some wild flowers ; found that we had put aside
for our garden-flowers, others which had higher claims. The time has

Inearly run out, but am not to speak of my orchids, my bees, and my
Iflies ? Am not to speak of the man orchid, which looks as though a
little man were dangling from the flower ? This is to be found within a
few miles of London. The curious fly orchid is not far off, and must not
be forgotten. The remarkable dancing girl orchid which we have in our
houses is worthy of notice ; every flower, by a little exercise of imagination,
is converted into a dancing girl. There is another remarkable one which
is called the dove orchid, and when you look into the flower of this you see
Ia perfect figure of a dove. It is looked upon with considerable superstition
by the Spaniards in Central America where it grows.     cannot describe

the many beauties we grow, and it would take much longer to describe the
plants we might grow. A garden must ever be a source of great pleasure
to a man ; it helps him over his troubles, soothes his nervous system, and
carries his mind from the beautiful things which grow there to the Author

and Designer of them all.
374                      APPENDIX.                                                                 [No. XXXV.

                                     No. XXXV.
SPEECHES DELIVERED AT ROCHESTER BY ALFRED SMEE.

     1. SPEECH AT A COMPLIMENTARY DINNER TO ALFRED SMEE,
                                     DECEMBER 19TH, 1868.

MR. SMEE, who on rising was received with loud cheering, said: Mr.

I IChairman, my Lord, and Gentlemen, It is with a great deal of diffidence

that rise to express the thanks which feel for the honour you have
done me this day, in asking me to come amongst you, after the defeat we

have experienced at the kite election. "We have unmistakably had a great

Idefeat in Rochester a defeat which we did not expect. The moment
Ientered the city received numerous promises of support ; those promises

came rolling in day by day till 10 o'clock each night : they amounted at
last to 1,024 on the day before the nomination. After the nomination, at
which, as you know, we gained the show of hands, that same evening no
more promises came, but promises began to fall off; withdrawals began
to be made, which showed the city must be under the power of certain
persons in it. (Sensation.) And on the next day these 1,024 promises
Idegenerated into 702 performances. (Shame.) Accustomed as am to
I Inumbers, sat ticking off the votes at the Guildhall as they came in, and
I Is""oTWoenhllysamwde,othnwa'tht ytthhedeorenv'otwteatrshsesocvmoometetehrsinugpco?mw"reonNugpo.
Iwith                               ?      sent word                                             to my committee,
                                                                                                        wrote again,
                                       a"nswAerslcipamoef.
                                                                                                 paper then came

     s. d. upon it. (Sensation.)  understood at once the meaning.
Now there must be some very potential reason which prevented 1,024
Ipromises from realizing more than 702 votes. In the first place, think
Imany good Conservatives were victims to despair.                                                found they wor-

shipped success, and the moment they saw we were not at the head of the

Ipoll they stayed at home and did not vote. (Shame.) "With this despair it

is very difficult to deal ; and can only call your attention to the wife of

that great man on whom our gracious Queen has bestowed a high honour.

In the difficulties and disappointments of her husband, she supported, she
comforted him, and all, even from the Queen on her throne, recognized
Iwhat she                 will    commend the victims of
Iladies of                        sure, as no " faint heart
     did. (Hear, hear.)  quite                                                                     despair to the
     Rochester, and am                                                                             ever won fair

lady," the ladies of Rochester will never let a man become a coward
because his cause does not happen to win. (Cheers.) Mr. Smee then pro-
ceeded to quote the words of Sir Robert Peel, in the debate of 1833, in

which he argued that if property of 300 years' possession was not secure
to any establishment, little hope could be given of the safety of private
property. Lord Palmerston had also expressed a belief that the Church
and State establishment was essential to the constitution of eveiy civilized
country. (Cheers.) Lord Castlereagh and Mr. Canning were of opinion that
the union of Church and State and the maintenance of the Irish Church
were necessary for the well-being of the empire. Could we, in the face of
all this great mass of opinions before us, proceed to vote step by step for
the disintegration of Church and State ? (No, no.) We had no need of
apologizing to Mr. Mai-tin for having voted in the Conservative cause, even
No. XXXV.]              APPENDIX.                            375

if we had known we should not have been successful. (Hear, hear.) But

despair was not the only cause of the defeat. There was a question which
would be tried by numerous petitions, viz. the one day's pay. This was a
very difficult question ; the one day's pay in some circumstances might, he
thought, be allowed and paid. He was advised that it should not be done
in Rochester in this election, and it was not done ; and to that trifle he
attributed a great deficiency in the votes. Numbers of men, again, were
compelled to vote as their masters wished, and not as they themselves

thought proper. He believed, if every voter had been free to vote as ho

thought proper, three-fourths at least would have voted for the Conserva-
tive cause and not for the Liberals. (Cheers.) The parliamentary represen-
tation of the country had no doubt been considerably changed in the
present Parliament. For some years past the middle classes had princi-
pally been represented in Parliament, but now the working men were the
largest body amongst the electors. But in this city the men had been

compelled to vote as he had said, immediately against their own principles.
They had to vote in support of a party amongst whom was one man
Bright whose principles they all knew, viz. that he wished to get the

greatest amount of labour for the smallest amount of pay; and, again,
to receive the greatest amount of money for the smallest amount of the
necessaries of life. (Hear, hear.) Mr. Bright said that all dockyards were
useless, and it might come to pass that Chatham dockyard might be done
away with, in order that Mr. Bright might get the work put to tender
amongst his favourites in the North, and then the inhabitants of this

place would be left without anything but poverty and starvation. (Hear,
hear.) Now, it had been seriously impressed upon him to petition against
this return for the city of Rochester. He might have done so on safe
grounds. But he did not wish to disturb the peace of the city, and it
would have raised much ill feeling ; and he felt that the working of the
Act would be sufficiently proved by the fifty-four petitions which had been
sent up : by those the law would be sufficiently demonstrated. And he
would leave those masters who had not allowed their men to vote according
to their own wishes to be racked and tormented by their consciences.
(Hear, hear.) Those masters would be in constant fear that their men
would not be doing that justice which they would otherwise have expected,
and by that fear they would be tormented morning, noon, and night.
(Hear, hear.) Now he    believed that  the doctrines he had  had the pleasure
of bringing before the  city on many   occasions would have  their due weight.

The doctrines would spread and grow, and finally they would overthrow
the whole bulwark of Radicalism in the city. (Cheers.)
Now what had they to look forward to, and what had they to fear ?
As Conservatives they had a large majority against any other body of men
holding contrary principles ; but when they brought against the Conserva-
tives all the eccentricities of character and opinion which  the kingdom
contained, they found themselves in a minority. Who were     the Liberals ?

wTCwwcohohhauaoonlkltldsejtoiibnnitcnuoooetdttuhidyonesntiwtrts.oyatig.nrsee(teHtchhtoTeesemahriroirps,ffohoshoLrweeuodaaasnsredo.ts)iofmdwneepmTietwhhootoeiopntrlhuseoetotrvauwebpttreraetoishdbnfreegaosibnwsciygnionngtfiohfnouneuseofrieofpaanoopcrffotwstothihhtfteeheitcahbhketpuirrrngitgandhalncaesriryprt.oohleftrcsotoTeruuehrgll;oidihsgftiohwnttnhheao,eeyst
376                                 APPEXDIX.                     [No. XXXV.

caused by the laws not being made to fit one another ; the laws should be

made upon one basis. In America, they saw the same state of confusion exist.
At last it caused that country to divide into two parts, and war ensued ;
and many lives and millions of money that war cost. It was caused

simply by the want of principles. Nothing could be done by fits and
starts ; we must progress step by step from that which is good to that

which is better if ever we were to reach that height of perfection which
could be obtained under any human system. But the Conservatives must

prepare for their work by organization. (Cheers.) They must have over them
lieutenants of tens, captains of hundreds, and commanders of thousands,

by whom they must be led to the poll. They ought to be so organized
that at the next election the city could be canvassed in one night. (Cheers.)
They must also have unity amongst themselves. (Hear, hear.) There must
be one Conservative Association, and they must follow it, and then their

cause would succeed at the next election. (Cheers.) And having been
victorious in Rochester, step by step they would carry the Conservative
cause throughout the empire. He thanked them again for the honour they
had done him. Whatever he might be in future, and no one could tell

whether he would be their member, or would ever remain the adopted but
non-elected candidate for this city, he should ever be grateful for the kind
reception which had been granted him here. (Cheers.) And as long as he
lived, he should always remember the very kind manner in which they had
greeted him that evening. (Loud cheers.)

2. SPEECH DELIVERED ON THE OCCASION OF THE PRESENTATION OP
            PLATE AT THE CORN EXCHANGE, APRIL 2ND, 1874.

MR. SMEE rose to return thanks, being received with tremendous applause.

IHe said : Mr. Chairman, proposer, and seconder, must confess it is not
Ia new era of my life to receive a testimonial ; for although believe
Iit has not been due to my merits but to the kindness of my friends,

have, either for services rendered or for fancied services rendered, received
Iduring my life more than either could have deserved or desired. (Ap-
I Iplause.)
     am proud to say that have many moat valuable tokens that
Ihave been given to me. Then why should
                                                   accept this token from
Iyou, and think it far more agreeable than any one that have received
before ? It is upon this principle, that whilst families, whilst single
Ipeople, have' thought it necessary to give me testimonials before, this

is the first time in my life that ever had a testimonial with a list of

names spreading across this room, and numbering hundreds of persons.
             For why have you given
(Applause.)                                me this testimonial ?    (A voice :
Because you  deserved it.) It is not for  my merits, because there
                                                                    are many
Ipersons much more meritorious than am (No, no) to whom you might
Ihave given this testimonial better than to me. But know it is upon
Ithe truth of those principles that have taken up and those principles
I Iwhich have discoursed upon in the city of Rochester. (Applause.)
Icame here and said that was an advocate for Conservative progress.
Mind you, what was done in a room in this city has been adopted by the
                                                    It commends
Prime Minister    of this country.    (Applause.)                 itself to all your
                  pointed out to    you that by    wise laws the  working men of
attention, for I
No. XXXV.]                       APPENDIX.                                                    377

tliis country might be benefited with respect to the lan-l upon which they
dwell, in the houses in which they  live,   in   the food which they
the liquors they require to drink.         fact   every social problem               eat, in
                                     In                                              of life

Idemanded careful legislation and improvement with the knowledge of the

age, and stood before you as a firm and warm advocate of Conservative
progress. (Applause.) There are two parties in this country; one the
Conservatives, another who style themselves Liberals. We don't ; we call
them the Radical party. (Applause.) What are the Conservatives but the
great national party of this country ? (Applause.) They stand or go
forward from time to time, venerating the Constitution and fully support-
ing the Church ; and the principles upon which they rely will endure and
must endure from generation to generation. (Applause.) The Conservative

party is a substantial party. It is a party that has principles for its foun-
dation. It has unity of purpose ; and although of late years it has been
somewhat repressed by a combination against it, it has now come forward

Itriumphantly to maintain its proud position. (Applause.) And am
delighted to see the success it has met in every part of this country, and
more especially the great rise which has taken place in the opinions of this

city. (Applause.) We find the Conservatives are distinguished by fixed
principles, by civilization, and by their love of order. Now let us see what

distinguishes the Liberals : false theories and barbarism. (Applause.)

Amongst the Liberals there are no two persons holding the same doctrines ;
every one has a fancy doctrine of his own. We find a combination of con-

flicting, erratic theories on religion, on science, on politics, on health, and
upon medicine. Every one calls himself a Liberal; every one dislikes
every other one of his class; but all join with the one common purpose of
opposing and of voting against the Conservatives. (Hear, hear.) That does
not constitute a party in itself. The xinion of dissimilar principles cannot
make a distinct and definite idea to work upon. We have to contend with
all the conflicting ideas of all mankind, but we rely upon truth, and truth
comes out victorious under every possible form of fair inquiry. (Applause.)
You see that the Liberals, or rather the Radicals, are like the bundle of
sticks every one dissimilar, but, joined together, forming
                     Hitherto              are                           the   "a   grand aggre-
gation of strength.  resist the  we, who   of   striecgkasrd"ewd hiales  tied      heart of oak,"
have been unable to              " bundle
                                                                               together. But

the time has come when we must adopt their idea. We must be like a

bundle of sticks, move together, and then there is no power on earth which
Ifcan repress the Conservative progressionists. (Applause.) Now                      that is the
weak part of this city.  Conservative progress is to maintain
                                                                                     its way, if

the constitutional institutions of this country are to maintain their own,
                                 combine, must unite    and go together to the
                                 them. (Applause.)
Ifone and all, of all classes, must                        once it is to be pre-
                                                                               fail ; if the
poll, and then victory is before                                         will  if the rich    rich
        that the  working men are entirely to    lead,  they             but                  and
sumed   consider   that they are to lead, they          fail :
are to                                           will

poor, if high and low and every grade of life, loving truth above all things,
Iwill unite together, then their strength will be such that no power can
resist it. (Applause.) That is not my opinion alone.                     have received this

Iday from Mr. Gorst, who, you know, is intimately connected                    with   managing
                                                                                 he
election affairs throughout this country, a letter in which                          says, " My

dear sir, am very glad to hear that an effort is about to be made in the
city of Rochester for the re-organization of the Conservative party. Our
378                           APPENDIX.                         [No. XXXV.

success at the late general election was largely due to the existence in most

counties and boroughs in England of Conservative associations which

represented all classes of society. Elections cannot be won by the isolated

efforts of a few persons, however able and influential they may be ; what is
required is a combined effort on the part of all who are attached to the
Crown and the Constitution, and who desire the freedom of the people.
The Conservatives of Rochester may rely on our sympathy and assistance
in their attempt to constitute a united and powerful party in Rochester."
For the first time since the last election, which we lost from vai-ious causes,

you have constituted yourselves into committees to carry that out. You

have only to thoroughly organize those committees, and success is yours.
A gentleman has favoured us this evening with his presence my friend
Mr. Trego, Chairman of the Conservative organization at Tottenham

(applause) and he will tell you presently, if you call upon him, what

success attended his efforts in Tottenham, how hundreds voted at the last
election in comparison with tens who voted before; and as he won the

victory in Middlesex, so you may win Rochester by a thorough combination.

(Applause.) Do not let us neglect to follow the Liberals in whatever may
           and they in  this
be good;   They have    got   city have done much to show what  organization
can do.                       a house for the purpose in which   they " keep

dark," in which they attend to the registration and to the votes, and they

by that organization have obtained the advantage for many an election.
(Hear, hear.) But the working men of this city are powerful indeed, for
they constitute the majority ; they have only to be true to themselves, and
Itrue to each other, and the member they desire will be placed at the head
of the poll. (Applause.)      look upon this letter as a pledge that they in
London will render every aid in their power if you do your duty in looking

after each other, and securing the vote of every man who is upon the
                            Now, the
register.  (Applause.)  estimated.     power   of Conservatism  over the country
cannot be  too highly                          matter of high   principle ; it is a
                                      It is a

matter of principle which influences every action of our lives. We begin
by combining religion as a part of our government, feeling that it ought to
be carried on on just the same principles which we cany into every action

of our lives. (Hear, hear.) The working man is essentially Conservative ; by

Inature he must be so. (Applause.) will illustrate that by one simple
Iinstance.  have alluded on other occasions to that machine which is con-

trived over in Strood by Mr. Aveling with its piston to go quick and its
wheels to go slow which can be seen in the streets of London continually.

Now, supposing you were to act contrary to principle to screw down the
safety valve it would be blown into ten thousand pieces. Or supposing
there was some little damage and the engine would not go at all, you would
not think of trusting it to any man to repair who did not understand the
principles upon which it was made. Yet this country has trusted the most
recondite principles of government, the most recondite principles of action,

to men of all sorts of varying ideas, and who had no principle upon any

subject whatever. (Applause.) Now let me take a glance at the growth of

Ithe doctrine of Conservative progress since first entered into yom- city.
I IWhen first addressed you in the King's Head rooms opposite, was
astonished at the multitude of my audience. We had to take precautions

that no accident should happen to the house from the number of persons

who were present. That was followed by the meeting when we applied fur
No. XXXV.]                   APPENDIX.                                     379

and were refused the room in which we now stand. They said, " What do
we want with principles of Church and State, of religion and government ?
We are beyond all that. The days have passed for anything like propriety
in that way. We'll not even allow you the use of this room." And we

Iwere refused, by the Radicals of that time, even this room in which might
I Iaddress you. (Hear, hear.) When came the second time, found that you
Iwere much more deeply interested in the principles had put forward than
you were on the first occasion. The Radicals were violent ; the Radicals
were excited, and the whole city was placarded with announcements that
in this room a
forward at the  meeting was   to    "  be held to denounce the principles    put
                             by        the stranger who had come down      from
                King's Head
London." Who resisted this but the working men of Rochester ? (Applause.)
Who said that no man should as was intended pass a resolution against

Ime unless was heard first ? (Applause.) You would not permit in this
I I Iroom one word to be said till was heard, and was sent for ; and when
Iwas sent for, the voice of the meeting called out that as was to be
Iattacked should be heard first. (Hear, hear.) Hour went on after hour,
                                    wsHaeeidrgeeatwctrehoesssmtotohodeuttianabgldaeui,nm"b?S"msheoe(Lw, a,wuweghhhetanevre.y) oguotr
and not one word was spoken.
respected and estimable member

Iall the people in here ; how shall
I Isaid, " am ready to stop here all night. have entered into the fight and
I assuredly will go through it. (Applause.)         But  if you wish
                                                 "  How               "toTadkiespherosled
this meeting, I'll disperse it in two minutes."          ?" he said.

of my arm, and we'll walk straight out." We did walk out, and there was

an end of that meeting. (Applause.) That time you rallied round me and
gave me the show of hands at the Guildhall, but still that was no use

against the strong combination of all the odds and ends of fancy sections
Iwho came against me and won the election. When look to those events
Iand look to this proud occasion, when am to receive a testimonial not from
Ione but from hundreds of my fellow-countrymen,
                                                         have reason indeed to

be proud of the doctrine of Conservative progress, and to thank you most
                                    in the hall
cordially for being  here to-night   (Applause,  which   vhoaicsebe"eTnhrgereantcehdeeirns  the
kindest manner by    your mayor.                 and a                                      for

Mr. Edwards.") Now, our position at the present time is confessedly
difficult. You have got in this city in particular a large mass of earnest
Radicals who are joined one and all against your doctrines and to oppose

your principles. That alone would require a great effort on your part to
overcome. You have also to recollect that the Radicals have been a long

time in power. Place has fallen to their lot, and consequently we may
I Isay of those who have had place that they may be expected to exhibit
gratitude. With regard to that gratitude            must say felt a little

astounded when the question of the separation of Church and State was on,
that some of those who lived by the Church did not support that Church in
the manner which might have been expected. (Hear, hear.) Probably they
Irelied upon the doctrine of gratitude to Gladstone, who had put them in

their situations ; but cannot but think that gratitude to God, who had
given them this Church, should have had a greater effect upon their minds
Ithan gratitude to a patron who had put them in place. (Applause.) But,
contrariwise,   was also astonished by the manner in which those who
heartily felt that religion and state should be united, expressed their
feelings. One of your clergy at Strood, being confined by disease, was
carried across by two men to the poll, there to record his vote for Church
380                      APPENDIX.                 [No. XXXV.

Iand State. (Applause.)  have given you some of your difficulties, but now

comes the difficulty of that vis inertice which many in your city have been

afflicted with. (Hear, hear.) Working men know what this inertia is ; if
they have a block of stone, they know how difficult it is to set it in motion.
They know how difficult it is to move a steam-engine in the first instance,
but once set going it rolls on. Now some hundreds of persons who call
themselves Conservatives in this city had this inertia, that they could not
roll out of their arm-chairs on the day of the poll and cross perhaps one
hundred yards to record their votes. (Hear, hear.) That is the difficulty
you have to cope with by argument and by persuasion ; but in counting

your forces you must say that everyone who is not with you heart and soul
is against you. (Hear, hear.) You must count them against you, for it is a
very dangerous thing to rely upon the vote of a man who will not rise out
of his chair simply to deliver it. (Hear, hear.)
     Now, gentlemen, these are great difficulties, but there is a greater
still a difficulty which it is customary not even to whisper from one
person to another that the person who dared to do it should close his

Iears that they might hardly hear what he had to say. And yet think
Iit is desirable that the whole case should be put before you ; for never
will appear as a candidate for this city without being thoroughly above-
board and telling you all the circumstances of the case. (Applause).

IThe question to which have to call your attention may be called the
Imoney question of an election. Now you know as well as do that

the working men have thought it right to ask for a day's pay if they
lose a day's work in going to the poll. To give that day's pay is an act

of illegality which renders the donor liable to serious consequences, the

receiver to equally serious penalties, and might forfeit the franchise of the

Iborough itself. Now have taken this thing most carefully into my
Iconsideration, and advised at the last election that you should throw up
this day's pay at once for your vote, and show that you will be free men,
and that you will esteem the privilege of electing any person you like to

Parliament, independently of any small monetary consideration. (Applause.)

Now what does a day's pay amount to ? A day's pay for the city of
Rochester, for those who are likely to take it and think they are fairly
entitled to it, would amount to about 7s. 6d. per man ; and that will not

amount in the whole to above 100 or 150 a sum too insignificant for a

candidate to think worthy his attention when he has to pay for the

printing, advertising, the parliamentary fees, and the many other things
Iwhich are connected necessarily with a powerful contest. This 100 or

  150, say, is immaterial to the candidate except that by giving it the
election may be lost afterwards and the borough may be disfranchised.
But what do you think is the price asked for this borough in the London

markets ? The price is 2000 a candidate, or 4000 for the two. (Shame.)
INow, are you ever likely to get that money ? In the annals of the city has
it ever been divided among the people ? (No, no.)  say not. Then who
has received it, and where has it gone to ? (Hear, hear.) Now this is a very
serious question indeed, for you may depend upon it, if there is any man in
this city who looks forward to receive his 100, and if when a candidate

comes down to the borough and offers himself he does not come down with
Ithat money, it will be that he is not quite the proper man for the place.

(Laughter and hear, hear.) Now will tell you plainly that that insinuation
has been put forward in Rochester, and it is your duty to find out who is
No. XXXV.]                        APPENDIX.                            381

looking forward for that money and who has put forward that insinuation.

(Hear, hear.) It has been insinuated that the people who asked me down
here wanted my money. Who asked me down here ? Messrs. Watson,
I Ifather and son.
                   declare upon my honour that have never paid them
I Ione shilling, never have promised them one shilling, never intended to
give them one shilling. (Applause.) Moreover, they have given me good and
safe counsel in every part of this election, and advised me not to waste my
money amongst prodigals who would not be benefited by it, but to trust

Ientirely to your probity and sense of right to return that candidate whom

you may think fit. (Applause.) Now am speaking very perspicuously

upon this point, because it is on this a great deal will turn in future

elections. If you wish me after giving me this magnificent testimonial

Ito retire to London, shall retain that ever afterwards as a sense of your
Ikindness and as a proof that the doctrines have spoken have affected
I Iproperly your minds ; but say emphatically will not come here to be a
party to giving 2000 for myself, or 4000 for two candidates to be distri-

Ibuted amongst don't know who. (Applause.) The moment it was announced
I had set my foot into Rochester it was communicated to me through a
friend that your late lamented member, Sir William Bodkin, wished me
I I I I I Ita"aonnOdycfatpwlhlreheuatpbetounnrsdioechnanismn.'toaftte"hltlihseycsoaouSnne.'g"tssiwtoeanlssln,ay"HmooBeuued,swebaeurveitenr!y"Cslp"eeernBkrsteeownfnowarreeullpy. ooutfhewanhHddoiidmgbhec?-gsa"tllryetoheusetarietodo,.f
Ibeware." Not only that, but have seen other persons connected with this
I Icity and they have told me also to beware.
                                                        have had cannot tell you
I Ihbouwsinmesasnytellelitntgersmefrotom"pBaertwieasre."
                                  have been             associated with in relations of
                                                        am to beware of ? (A laugh.)
                                   But what
I have spent nothing here but what the law imposes upon me according to
Ithe contract made with you at the King's Head before the last election ;
Iand instead of being fleeced as it was represented, am almost ashamed
Ito say fleece you by taking this magnificent testimonial. (No, no, and
Ilaughter.) will say but little more, but if you wish me to come forward
Iit must be upon that basis.      am prepared to fight with you as long as
Iyou are prepared to fight (applause) ; but am not prepared to pay this
Imoney, and upon this it will greatly turn, although nobody, as have said
Ibefore, could ever tell me who received it. (A voice : We don't want pay.)

Now again, for the last time, thank you from the very bottom of my
for the            kind  manner in    which you have made this presentation
; and       very   you   fairly that  the moment it was presented to me it
Iheart       tell

to me
passed partly out of my hands, because my son and myself have made a
compact to devote our time, whether literary, whether politically, or
                          to our  mutual benefit, and therefore this   present
                          myself  but to my son after me. (Applause.)
Iwhether professionally,                                                It has

goes at once not only to
already become half his
his sons and grandsons
                          property, and feel confident he will transmit it to
                          to show in how very kind a manner the people of
                             (Applause.) You nobly supported Church     and
Rochester received me.    by good government and the administration of
State. May that State,    perpetual comfort here ; and may the Church   fair

laws, contribute to your                                                lead

to your eternal happiness hereafter. (Loud cheers followed the conclusion
of Mr. Smee's speech, and a call for "One for the son" was warmly

responded to.)
382                          APPENDIX.                        [No. XXXVI.A.

                             No. XXXVI.A.

CORRESPONDENCE ON MILK, TYPHOID FEYER, AND
                      SEWAGE. By ALFRED SMEE.

THE following observations on Milk, Typhoid Fever, and Sewage, some of
which appeared in the columns of the ' Times ' newspaper, and all in those

of the ' Standard,' have been reprinted in consequence of the intense

interest they have excited.

     Sewage-grounds, as now conducted, are a failure. They do not dis-

infect the sewage. They are dangerous to health. They are not adapted

for healthy vegetation, and the produce, under certain circumstances, is

unfit for either the food of man or beast.

     The Houses of Parliament have been deceived by exaggerated state-

ments to pass Acts which have proved an injury to the community.

     So-called skilled witnesses and dilettante counsellors, to the great

annoyance of professional men and te the disgrace of science, have made
declarations before parliamentary committees where, with ordinary intel-

ligence, they could not have been ignorant of their falsity.
     As a consequence, serious evils have arisen by the formation of pesti-

lential sewage-grounds, which now imperatively demand steps to be taken

for their entire abolition where possible; and where their abolition is

impracticable, then for their regulation and inspection by competent
authorities, that the town-councillors of one district may not poison the

air and pollute the wells of the territory of their neighbours.

     7, FINSBUBY CIRCUS,                                         A. SMEE.

         Sept. llth, 1873.

I ISIB, In reference to your leading article in this day's ' Standard,'
  beg to forward a copy of a letter which have this day sent to Mr. Simon,
the distinguished Officer of Health to the Privy Council.

      LETTER TO JOHN SIMON, ESQ., F.R.S., D.C.L., PRIVY COUNCIL
                                                  OFFICE.

    I am in a position to explain the occurrence of typhoid fever from

the use of milk. We keep a small herd of cows, from which my house in
London is supplied with milk, cream, and butter. What is not required
for our own use is sent to the members of the families of the men employed
at my garden, and when there is any surplus the neighbours purchase it.

       During the spring my son directed, without my knowledge, that the
cows should be fed with a small proportion of sewage grass, when, without
knowing the reason, the butter was so offensive we could not bear it on the
table ; the other members of the family were loud in their complaints, and

Ithe neighbours for a long time came for no more butter.

       Upon inquiry, heard of the feed of sewage grass, which was imme-
diately ordered to be discontinued, when the milk, cream, and butter
resumed their former excellence.

    IThis seemed to me too seriously important to pass unnoticed, so

desired my son again to repeat the experiment suddenly, without any
notice, when the same results again occurred. Cows like the sewage grass,
No. XXXVI.A.]                      APPENDIX.                                                                                                                            383

and the milk is slightly increased in quantity by its use. The milk has a
slightly rancid odour when about twenty-four hours old, and has this
quality a day or two after the cows are fed with the grass. The butter
becomes bad about a day or two after          it  is
paration can avert its rancidity.                     made,  and no care  in                                                                                       its  pre-

I I'oMf yvegGheataradvbeelnel.so',nagnkddnihodawvnneottc,haahUotewdtheesvpeuer,sceiaklnooaf wtpteutnitlrtliidolantmetloayntuhthreeasftactahtffeeicnptsutthtrheide   quality
                                                                                                                                                                   book of

                                                                                                                                                                     matter
could

Ifstate

Iment,
 be     taken by  animals and communicated in the dangerous putrefactive
by     the milk   to other animals.           you would like to verify the experi-

 a     cow shall  be placed at your disposal for the purpose, but have

reason to suspect that the fact, which has a bearing upon many social
problems, is thoroughly well known to our dairy proprietors.
August 15.

     It is currently suggested that in cases where typhoid fever has occurred

Inear sewage farms the milk has been directly adulterated with sewage.

        can hardly myself entertain so horrible an idea, but if the suspicion

has been entertained, why was not a coroner's inquest held upon those who
died, and why was no attempt made to bring the supposed adulterators to
justice ?

    IAs my letter has opened the whole subject of sewage irrigation, and

made the public alive to the importance of the subject, will take the

Iliberty of answering all correspondents in a few days, but much informa-

tion has been supplied to me which, for obvious reasons, dare not write.
       August 19.

IIn the first week in July visited.a friend in Harley Street, the centre
of the present epidemic of typhoid fever, when a fine cat was shown to
me which would not touch London milk, though in the country it drank
milk as freely as other cats do.
IIt was suggested that should send to puss a can of milk from my
Igarden               it  for my                This was done, and the following
       as   received               own  use.  milk was immediately submitted to
answer was  received  on   July 8  :"
                                        The

Fluff's judgment, and he, after a most careful inspection, appeared to be of
Ithe opinion that it was excellent, and he, after once having fairly tasted it,

drank every drop gave him. It certainly is a very curious circumstance,
and shows pretty plainly to me (as you suggested) that the London milk-
man supplies something besides water with his milk."

Assuming the milk to have been the sole cause of the present

epidemic, how much pain and how many deaths might have been averted
Iif the sagacity of the cat had been rightly understood ! have been asked
Ihow putrefactive milk can be determined.             reply, " From the creatures

thy instructions take." Follow the example of the cat, and get evidence of
the act of putrefaction by the nose. Keep the milk for twenty-four hours
in a moderately warm place, when the bad odour will demonstrate the evil.
      Not only milk, but water contaminated by putrefactive compounds,
will after twenty-four hours discover its death-producing qualities. Good
water will travel all over the world without change, but if it contains the
elements of putrescence it will not keep twenty-four hours without the

odour being apparent.
                                                        APPENDIX.                [No. XXXVI.A.

      Both men who attend to my son's cows state that they can detect no
difference in new milk produced from grass grown upon land irrigated

Iwith town sewage till after some hours have elapsed : and have ascer-

tained that the milk from sewage farms is regularly consumed in some of
our large towns too soon for its source to be detected, and, perhaps, too
soon for it to be actually hurtful.

      August 18.

The time has arrived for grouping the valuable information which the
m" piluktrcidon,"troavnedrstyhehfaascteslicaiptepde.ar  My observations
                                                        to turn upon the  were   limited by  the word
                                                                          right  use of the
                                                                                             word. A

putrid state of decomposition as is observed in town sewage is very

different from the ammoniacal state which is observed in stables, and
which the gardener uses in his hotbeds, and which should always be

employed for the culture of first-class vegetables.

     In answer to various inquiries, our cows are of the Alderney, Brittany,

and short-horn breeds, and are usually fed on fields on the lower tertiary
bed of sand, immediately above the chalk, or upon a drift bed of flints,

which in bygone days have been washed out of the chalk. In the first

case my son gave the cows two rods of grass from the Croydon sewage
fields, fresh cut, which was about a full barrowf ul to each cow per day, as
a part of their usual food, when the putrid state of the milk and butter

became apparent. He tried tbe experiment without my knowledge, having
a full belief in the benefits which would accrue, as at that time he did not
share my opinion of the hurtful qualities of sewage grass. That, and the

******subsequent experiment, admit neither of qualification nor explanation.
       The proprietor of a large dairy, who supplies several of our largest
institutions in London, informs me that he had the Edmonton sewage
farm, but was obliged to abandon it, as the milk was unsaleable. Letters
confirming my view, or rather in most cases going beyond my statement,
have been received from Mr. Bardwell, of Great Queen Street, Westminster ;
also from Mr. Hollis, of Eastbourne, who states that when fresh night soil

was applied to a meadow the butter afterwards had the flavour of night

soil, and was utterly unfit for use. A letter has been received from the

celebrated private inquiry office of Field the detective, stating that in
America the same thing is noticed. Mr. Butt writes that in all towns and

villages of India the buffaloes eat putrid matters, the consequence being
that the milk has a most offensive smell, and all Europeans like to have

their own cows and keep them tied Tip.

     At Beddington School, when supplied with sewage milk, 60 cases of

typhoid fever occurred, and three deaths, No. 243, No. 249, and one other.

It has been endeavoured by the sewage promoters to account for the

disaster upon the plea that the milk was directly adulterated by sewage ;
but no inquest was held, neither was any man prosecuted. Dr. Mac-
Cormack, the medical officer of Lambeth, states that an attack of fever

occurred from the Croydon sewage milk ; and a clergyman from Scotland

informs me that a cow-keeper neglecting to give his cows fresh water, they
drank sewage. After partaking of the milk he had that evening diarrhoea.

All observers agree that cows will drink sewage freely, and eat vegetables

or other substances in a putrid state.
No. XXXVI.A.]    APPENDIX.                                               385

      Both my men agree that milk from sewage grass must stand a certain
time before it shows signs of putridity, and that they themselves would
not hesitate to use sewage grass if the milk is used at once. The milk
from the          of the Croydon
consumed.  cows  is alleged that it  sewage farm goes to Croydon    and   is there
                                      is sold at 1. a gallon, and  sold  again to
             It

the Croydon workhouse at 10c?

    I have before me certificates of the deaths which occurred from fever
Iin the houses near the Croydon sewage-grounds, which give in detail :

           No. 1868.

            73. Typhoid fever, 19 days ; congestion of brain.
            95. Typhoid fever, 16 days ; congestion of brain.

                                                         1869.

           243. Enteric fever ; ulceration of bowels.
           249. Enteric fever.

           250. Fever.
           286. Peritonitis; pleuropneumonia.
           336. Scarlatina maligna, 14 days.
           350. Gastritis, 4 days.
           359. Scarlet fever, 9 days.
           375. Scarlet fever ; convulsions.

                                                         1870.

           376. Scarlet fever ; convulsions.
           395. Diphtheria ; inflammation of chest, 1 week.
           436. Malignant scarlet fever, 5 days.
           485. Scarlatina, 7 days ; effusion of brain, 48 hours.
           489. Scarlatina, 14 days ; albuminuria, 5 days.
           490. Scarlatina, 5 weeks ; albuminuria, 14 days.
           498. Scarlatina, 18 days ; albuminuria.

            22. Scarlatina, 19 days.
            65. Scarlatina, 11 days ; diphtheria, 5 days.

      As about 20 cases of illness occur for every one of death, it follows
that immediately surrounding the sewage-ground not less than 380 cases

Ioccurred between the 21st May, 1868, and the 4th August, 1870, the period

over which had certificates beside me.
      Town sewage-grounds are really in some cases pestilential marshes,

where putrid matter is taken from the courts and alleys of the towns and
carried before the drawing-room windows of suburban houses.

      During the discussion the effect of the solid matter deposited upon the

Istems of the grass has very properly been considered, though restricted

my remarks to the effect of putrid sewage on the juices of the plant.

     At any moment some malignant form of fever may break out on ill-

managed sewage farms, as similar fevers have originated at Marseilles
from a neglect of the laws of health.

     All vegetables are affected by putrid sewage. Asparagus is rendered

particularly offensive. The whole cabbage tribe are easily rendered parti-
cularly offensive, and even the delicious strawberry becomes disgusting
when watered with putrid manures.

                                                                                                          2c
386              APPENDIX.                                [No. XXXVI.A.

     Stock fed upon sewage farms, if mismanaged, suffer materially, and in

the public interest should have stringent Government supervision before
they are admitted to be sold for human food. Information upon this
point was directly refused in August 1869, but a Government commission
with full powers may obtain valuable information.

      Credible and disinterested witnesses have written to me privately and

to the newspapers stating that they have used sewage grass, and yet their

milk and butter are excellent. In each of these cases the sewage is small.
It passes directly to the land, which is large in area in relation to the
amount of liquid, and it has not time to become putrid. Dr. Symes, of

the County Asylum, Dorchester, says cabbages grown on their ground
irrigated by sewage are good, and no fault is found with the milk and
butter. Dr. Phillips, of the Devon County Asylum, says that the milk
and butter produced from their sewage-ground are excellent. Mr. Hales,
of the South Metropolitan Schools, states that the use of milk provided

Ifrom their sewage grass has been innocuous.

      After this evidence must admit that fresh sewage under certain
circumstances may be safely applied over a large surface of land without
Iinjury, and have so advised since this controversy. Nevertheless
                                                                   should

myself prefer to keep milch cows from sewage altogether.
     Under all the facts of the case we are bound to admit that town sewage
irrigation as now practised is a failure, and dangerous to health. At

present there appears to be no plan which can be absolutely recommended,
Ifbut the question of sewage must be practically dealt with.  we look the

difficulty fairly in the face, we may rely that the intellect of man will

surely provide a remedy, and preserve for the community healthy milk and

wholesome meat.

     August 22.

      Typhoid fever is known to be propagated either by animal or vegetable
matter in decomposition, or by both together. Of the exact nature of
typhoid poison nobody knows. No person has ever isolated the poison.
No one has ever seen it. No one knows how typhoid fever originates, but

Iall medical men trace it to putrid matters, and it is known particularly to

be transmissible from person to person by sewage. have seen this terrible

Idisease at Naples and Florence, and had the misfortune to treat it in those

cities, and in both those places had conference with the municipal
authorities for its prevention, and was authorized by capitalists to offer a

million and a half of money to lessen the mischief by adequate water

supply and drainage. It is not known, when a number of persons are

exposed to typhoid poison, why some are affected and some escape, nor is
it known, either with typhoid fever or with cholera, why apparently the
same conditions do not at all times produce the same results. The human
mind is now in a curious state of embarrassment upon the question. The
sewage irrigators are irrational in their arguments. They form conclu-
sions without premises, and they reason as though logic was the art of

wrong reasoning.

       Medical men abhor putrid sewage, even in isolated patches, as the
focus of disease, from the poisonous effluvia which it exhales. Sewage
irrigators take a number of isolated putrid sewage foci, and describe the
vast resultant pestilential sewage swamp, the emanations from which are
No. XXXVI.A.]              APPENDIX.                              387

concentrated and overpowering, as a sanitary panacea.             When the
absurdity   is demonstrated, they retreat under the charge of
ment; but    sewage farms, as they are now laid out, cannot       mismanage-
             to be an offensive and dangerous hotbed of disease,
other than                                                        be managed
                                                                   liable to be
tociarhacfreutipgiisvruaeettdrofoaoerctrfstyardiifnnniasygelesamemtsloeoyamtsmrtueeeucanrhsstt.ionanenwxWtiaeshtxhteu.teres,nnCet dvshteieeshwnmeaaaiitgssneetassimgsirhrraaacilgvhlineaaqrtguwiooearinsdnettwliyatiisogepasgoo.inofinsonttdeTi,tdthrheeeerogymiuont,hasattohhvmgeeeaecsdllaeoaowrnnrtahigegeeoderrf
water condemns that water for town use, on the ground that possibly nitre
may have come from the nitrogen of previous sewage contamination,
although at the moment utterly changed to chemical salts. The sewage
irrigators cover the ground with putrid matter, poison wholesale the wells
of the district, let some of the sewage pass unchanged into the rivers, to
be drunk unawares by the neighbouring villagers. The so-called sanitary
guardians relieve a town at the expense of the suburbs. All this is done
at an enormous cost to the ratepayers on the ground of danger to health ;
but the aggregation of danger to the suburban residents is called in-
nocuous irrigation. Sewage logic is as bad as sewage irrigation one
focus of disease is dangerous, a thousand foci aggregated together are
innocuous. Milk is known to be a conveyer of typhoid poison. Sewage
on a single farm is rightly condemned, but an aggregation of a hundred
farms with sewage to constitute a sewage farm is considered by the sewage
theorists free from harm.

      When cows feed on farms where sewage is, or feed on a sewage farm,
the labourers, it is alleged, make the quantity of milk for sale increased in
volume by directly adding sewage to the milk ; but no proprietor has ever
been made by custodians of sewage farms to punish those guilty of such a
horrible crime. Cows drink sewage in fact, its saline character makes
them prefer it ; and whether it be sewage on a farm or the sewage of a
sewage farm, the milk, after the cow has drunk the sewage, becomes

contaminated, is capable of putrescence, and therefore forms putrescible
matter, in which typhoid poison may revel. Plants which grow on farms

which have recent putrid sewage, take up into their composition and juices

the manurial matters. These remain unchanged for some time in the

plant, and during that period make the plant liable to putrescence and to

be poisonous to man and injurious to animals. The power which plants

possess of changing matters which they imbibe is not always equal. It

differs with the states of atmosphere and with the seasons. Heat and cold

modify this power. Light, darkness, or the quality of the light, or even
the hygrometric state of the air, influences the result, so that at every
period the same class of plants must of necessity have a variation in its
power of assimilating sewage. How putrid sewage, when absorbed, is
converted into plant-structures, is not known, as botanists generally
believe that animal matters are converted into ammonia or nitrates before

they undergo their changes into vegetable tissues.    When cows eat plants
containing unchanged manurial products, the milk
                                                    is tainted. It putrefies,

and the putrescent milk may be as liable to communicate typhoid poison
as the putrescent water was before it was taken into the plant.

    IIn the case of the recent epidemic, the sewage on the farm was

either added directly to the milk, which hesitated to believe, or the cows
                                                    2C2
388                                    APPENDIX.                        [No. XXXVI.A.

obtained the poison by drinking the sewage or by eating plants which had

previously absorbed the sewage. As long as good milk is a necessity to a

town, let us have no putrid sewage on a dairy farm. Let not the cows

drink sewage or eat putrid sewage grass.

     A farm with sewage on it, and a sewage farm, must be held to be

pestilential, death-producing swamps, until the sewage is disinfected.

Nature should be followed, and manurial matters in the putrid state

should be changed to mineral matters before they are absorbed by the

plants which feed upon them. Theoretically earth disinfects the sewage.

In practice, as now managed, part of the sewage never gets into the earth

to be disinfected, as the whole is spread over the waterlogged ground,

where it exhales its pestilential gases. Cows, whilst it is so spread over

the field, drink some ; blades of grass attach to themselves solid particles,

and plants take up other particles in their juices. Notwithstanding this

absurd deviation from the ways of nature, sewage fanners, engineers,

speculators, and others living by the promotion of sewage farms, recom-
mend sewage farms, as now conducted, as the source of all sanitary good-

All men know that if we do not return to the ground that which we take
from the ground the earth will not restore to us its usual crops. Sewage-
farm speculators assume that they alone know this great fact, and are
         dNeamtuornes.tratIinfgtheiyt
always                                 to draw off attention from the   infraction of the
laws of                                return sewage to the land, they  care not in what

state they apply it, and either do not know, or pretend not to know, the

danger they incur. The gardener who makes up his hotbed sweetens his

manure by fermentation, when ammonia is produced. The rootlets of his

cucumbers and melons run in the manurial mass, and sweet and wholesome

produce is obtained.
      The gardener also uses liquid manure with care and caution in certain

stages of the growth of a plant. He particularly abstains from giving the
ripening strawberry such manure, as he knows that his fruit would be
corrupted. The sewage irrigators, regardless of consequences, use putrid
manure at such a period that the plants are dangerous to animals. They

do not know, or they care not for the fact, that vegetable dyes, as madder,

will permeate an animal and colour its bones, which demonstrates to all
physiologists how animals are affected by the food they eat. Much more
may be said upon the effect of sewage vegetation on cows and sheep used
afterwards for human food, which must be considered at a convenient

season. Sewage promoters say that they can conduct their farms with

safety to the community. Take them at their word, and if any complaints
fairly arise from mismanagement, let the delinquent be fined 100 a day
for every day a sewage farm is mismanaged. Sewage fanners who sell
sewage directly put into the milk, or sewage transmitted through the cow
to the milk, or transmitted through vegetables imbued with sewage to the

cow, and from the cow by the milk to man, would be rather astonished if

they were found legally liable for their acts as railroad companies are

liable for preventable accidents. A verdict of 10,000 against a town
council for the death of a father of a family, in consequence of poisoned
milk sent from a dairy farm with sewage upon it, or a badly-managed
sewage-ground, will do more than any argument to rectify it. Town
councillors, as a whole, have neither intellect to comprehend, intelligence

to perceive, nor public spirit to undertake an expense necessary to deal
No. XXXVI.A.]      APPENDIX.                                        389

with sewage as a whole to ensure safety to  their  neighbours,      whilst they
protect the inhabitants of their towns.

August 30.

IiottnohfsettoaanankTemceheooeuufpnoinotfttuethohrreefelsacftrloaagrbveirnsoesoutsrtrppheoteosniotfdmanebginllaikcsosehf-ttmyampreanhrsettotosceiedraiivsnqebfut.yooersgmbtTireohsoniwusmsidenemolgeetshosspar,nnltaoiwnnhtthegsai.cbhthahateseWi,skminjatueohddrwegircnmeiansalpgpraoekrffacrsftbiolcelmeteyor

the remarks of Mr. Holland, we are driven to the alternative that either
the typhoid poison originated in the milk or the milk was a convenient
pabulum   for the  typhoid poison to be absorbed in, as nobody now
milk has   been    an extensive conveyer of the typhoid virus.      doubts that
                                                                     The facts
relating to typhoid in all countries must be considered; and whether in
England, or in the hotbeds of the disease in Rome, Florence, and Naples,
sewage stands prominently forth as the source whence the poison acts on the
human system. Probably it has fallen to my duty to examine the personal
history of more cases in most countries of Europe than any other person,
and the large number of cases of fever which are recorded in cities on the
Continent, where sanitary regulations are confessedly imperfect, is very
striking. The act of putrescence is the common concomitant of typhoid
poison, and my     observations prove that milk, under certain
is putrescible.                                                 circumstances,
                   It is undeniable that putrescible milk has   been supplied

where typhoid fever has originated. Does the typhoid poison pass through
the cow to the milk ? This is a question which our imperfect knowledge
of the nature of the poison forbids us to answer. Then comes the question
Is the typhoid poison absorbed by the milk from the atmosphere after it
has passed from the cow, and then, if it is so absorbed, does it come from
the solid particles of the atmosphere, or does it come from matter in a

gaseous state ? Some philosophers have considered that the particles of
Idust which dance in the sunbeam are molecules of disease and death, but

no proof has ever been afforded, and believe that a large majority of the
medical profession do not acquiesce in that doctrine. "With respect to
what is contained in the atmosphere in a purely gaseous state, an elaborate
series of experiments has been made at various stations in London, in some

of the more important hospitals, and at my experimental garden, and the

result has been that not only can the odour of flowers be reduced from the

atmosphere, but that large and variable quantities of nitrogenous materials
are contained in the atmosphere. Practically it is immaterial whether

putrescible milk originates or absorbs typhoid poison. We know that milk
under certain circumstances communicates typhoid poison, and it is our

bounden duty to make such provision that our large towns are supplied

with good and wholesome milk. Medical men generally agree to treat
typhoid fever with milk, and it is horrible to contemplate that they have
sought to cure the disease by administering additional doses of typhoid
poison. The public must reject all milk which is readily putrescible, and
refuse milk from all sewage farms which are in the mismanaged state
which partisans directly state that they are at present. Mr. Holland most
properly asks why putrescible manure spread over the land differs from
sewage. The answer is, that there is no perceptible difference. Sewage,
however, is applied to the grass immediately before it is used, and contains
390                     APPENDIX.  [No. XXXVI.A.

the products of fever cases. In the former case, however, it is applied long
before the grass is eaten by the cow. A field where cows continually

pasture yields grass which produces milk of bad quality.

     It is satisf actory to find that the sewage milk typhoid controversy has

thoroughly aroused the country to the importance of the subject, and it is
likely thoroughly to discomfort those who have of late years inflicted so
much damage to sanitary science by their absence of knowledge and want
of skill.

       September 3.

     My observations upon the milk question have in some cases been

misunderstood, in others they have been mis-stated ; but the broad fact
that recent sewage on grass affects milk is recognized and being acted

upon throughout England, as all prudent persons now discard milk which
Ihas any proximity to sewage.   took the most active part in turning the
Isewage out of rivers.
                        prepared the evidence upon which the sewage was
turned out of the river Wandle, as it runs through my experimental
garden, by procuring a series of perpetual injunctions in Chancery, when
it was diverted from the land ; and now the sewage farms are so mis-
Imanaged that have again to take active steps to remedy this evil, which
Iis as bad or worse than when it was turned into the river.
                                                             earnestly

warned the Government in the former instance to avert the danger which

threatened the inhabitants from their drinking the polluted Wandle water,

Iwhen persons were sent round to inform the residents ; and now publicly,

most earnestly warn the Government as to the mode in which these sewage

farms are conducted. In the former instance the same universal denial

of facts, the same attempt at ridicule, the same personal invectives, the

same false arguments, were used by those who had an interest in the river

pollution as have been attempted to be used on the present occasion by
I Ithose who have an interest in the pollution of the land. By patience and
perseverance carried my point.     turned the sewage from the river

which runs through my garden, and the proceedings served as a precedent
Ifor preventing the pollution of all the other rivers in England. By
similar patience and perseverance  trust on the present occasion to

compel those who are reckless of the comfort, the health, and the lives of

residents near sewage-grounds, to compel them to adopt such a system as

may not be a nuisance to their neighbours. Town councillors have to

learn this one great fact that sewage taken from their own parish and

distributed to their neighbours is no more a sanitary mode of dealing with

the question than if a housemaid of one house throws all the offal over the

wall into her neighbour's premises ; yet so does Croydon to Beddington,

and Enfield to Edmonton. It is not only typhoid fever which is propa-

gated by sewage-grounds, scarlet fever seems to be distributed wholesale
by it ; and what can be expected when highly contagious epithelial cells

Iare sown broadcast over the land ? We have not had a great epidemic of

cholera since sewage farms have been at work, but look with fear and
trembling on what the consequences may be if sewage irrigation is not
Iimproved before the next visitation, which now threatens.
                                                            hope, what-

ever mistakes may have been committed, that the Dairy Reform Company
will ensure the future confidence of the public by giving the most minute

particulars to those qualified to judge of the matter, that every drop of
No. XXXVI.A.]                APPENDIX.             391

fluid sent out by them should be traced to its origin, that scientific men
may know how the typhoid poison infected the milk, as much damage has
ensued to the company by the defiant tone assumed by one of its directors,
who was a great promoter of sewage farms, and who might have shown
becoming humility when so great a disaster occurred in a company imme-
diately under his control.

       September 8.

Now that public attention is directed to the sewage-grounds, advantage
must be taken of the opportunity to remedy their evils. The difficulty in
a proper application of sewage is the amount of water with which it is

mixed. From Croydon a river of sewage runs, which at its origin turns a

turbine wheel to work a Latham's machine for the separation of stones,

bottles, and other solid matters. The first attempt to utilize sewage in the
metropolis was made many years ago at Fulham, where a pumping engine

Iwas erected. The company was most anxious to supply experimentally the

important market garden belonging to Messrs. Fitch, and was empowered,

for the sake of experience, to offer sewage free of charge, and the company

even undertook to lay pipes over their garden. A serious conference took

place between the landowner, the three partners, and myself, of some hours'
duration, when they pointed out the immense importance for healthy vege-

tation that the water should be got from the grounds ; and, after a most
earnest and careful discussion, they declined the offer. Thirty years'

experience has added but little to the valuable knowledge of these first-
class cultivators. Our first object should be to relieve our towns of that

which is detrimental to health ; the second, to use the material profitably,

if we can ; but health must not be sacrificed for gain, nor disease incurred

for the prevention of loss. The serious nature of this particular case is
that the evils of sewage occur at one spot, and the distribution of the
poison takes place at another, far distant ; so the connection between the
source of the evil and the resultant mischief is difficult and in many cases

impossible to be traced. It is now of paramount importance to the

multitude that sewage shall be under stringent enactments and searching
                             and, on now leaving the controversy, everybody
Government   supervision ;
must admit   the time has    been well spent if it leads to a supply of good

milk to the people, and a better mode of rendering sewage innocuous to

our cities.

    IIn reference to your able article of last Saturday, may be permitted

to observe that my remarks have been misunderstood by a few persons

Iand mis-stated by others ?                          fact that typhoid fever  is
           have assumed  as a generally-accepted   although the exact-nature  of
intimately associated    with putrescible matter,
I Itvaptwhhenoheegpalelelopuottimhotgnaeeiotbhsiredluolakedsnvi,ewtpdeoaranuxowusteperdtaivyeruns,eortcgirhueeaaa,npbststcashoteoshei,msrpfabeoataledaawndtctyhaeeocenrmoofneweuopmpmlpelitiydtaiihlnneketeepneimontubnfitstcaeev.rcawiemtasaha,mugiciWtestelooh,ehfuopehonfrtuootrkihthtwnreireedoetrsrwstyDahcnpinaeib.hatiklrroepeyw,iosdUeiasRiwpaspnoenaooncfgddnilosei,inaror,temacenhctco.diutcsrlCayolorataldoymsteiasnpudgbgamdoseneetlptyiwdeot,iaivnogabetaneoly;sl
392                              APPENDIX.  [No. XXX VI. A.

some are inclined to suppose ; whether the poison was taken by the cow
and passed through to the milk ; or whether the milk self generated the
poison the public have not as yet sufficient evidence to form an opinion,
and it is deeply to be regretted that no inquest has been held to unravel

the mystery on oath.

      My observations have been restricted to the fact that vegetables take
matter into their juices which renders them putrescible, and that a cow
eating plants in that state produces milk which is putrescible, and con-
sequently well adapted as a nidus for typhoid poison.

       Sept. 15.

     The statement of Mr. Morgan in his letter to the ' Standard ' with

Irespect to my opinion on sewage is liable to be misunderstood.
         am of opinion : 1. That sewage-grounds, as hitherto used, are the
most dangerous nuisances which have ever been devised, creating vast

perpetual swamps calculated to spread disease, or even to engender new
forms of disease. 2. That the herbage grown upon sewage-grounds, under
improper culture, is unfit for milch cows, as it sometimes infects the milk

and is injurious to cattle, as it causes disease. 3. That putrid sewage is

liable to be absorbed by growing plants, rendering them putrescible under

some circumstances, and unfit for the food of man or animals. 4. That

sewage irrigation cannot be employed as a commercial success, and, where
cleansing by terrestrial filtration is necessary, towns must consider that

they have a nuisance to abate upon the best terms they can.

      Since these opinions have been extensively promulgated, sewage irri-
gators have not been so rampant, and sewage farms have been conducted
with somewhat more respect to the laws of Nature, and vegetables and

herbage have been allowed sufficient time to change the raw sewage before

Ithey are consumed by animals and man. Notwithstanding this partial

improvement, have reason to believe that tons of the wholesome water-
cress, so desirable for large towns, are sold in London, although grown
Iunder circumstances in which the stalks are liable to be besmeared with
faecal matter.    have, therefore, in no way altered my opinion that sewage

grounds require official supervision and control, to protect the public
against the crude theories and malpractices of the sewage irrigators.

Mr. Morgan is unquestionably following the right course, and doing good
service to sanitary science, by his experiments to precipitate the sewage
principles and obtain their manurial properties, and finally cleansing the
water through an oxidizing terrestrial medium ; but whether his is the

best precipitating process which can be adopted on a large scale, further

experience is still required.

     October 14.

         's letter is a fair specimen of the tone adopted by the Croydon

Board of Health when complaints are made, and by these general defiant

denials           has done more to throw discredit over properly-
Iconducted sewage irrigation than any man living. It is true that
took a prominent part in preventing the pollution of the Wandle by the
                   which         had an important effect in preventing
                   rivers.  has  is true that stopped the lime process
Croydon                                                                 the
                             It                                         and
Ipollution
         sewage,

         of other
Iother chemical precipitating processes ; and it is also true that recom-
-No. XXXVI.A.]                    APPENDIX.                              393

mended that   the sewage  when withdrawn from the river should       be placed
on the land.              results were obtained by the powers of     the High
               All these
Court
of the  of Chancery, and  not by  the good sense and neighbourly feeling
        Croydon Sewage    Board.   Every statement was met with as flat a

denial as            gives to the complaint of the great nuisance which

has been created; but truth upon oath prevailed, as it will again, if
necessity demands. On the occasion when a cartload of trout was
destroyed in the river and proceedings were pending, the Board relaxed
their usual arrogance, and they asked the favour of my friendly advice,
Ifwhich was readily given, and the costs of Chancery proceedings were saved
to the ratepayers.        Nature is interrogated in sincerity and truth, we
shall assuredly find a satisfactory solution of the difficulty. The inves-
tigations of the phenomena which are presented in sewage-grounds is

confessedly difficult. Perhaps there are not ten men in Europe, and
of these not two in England, who are competent to unravel the physico-

Iphysiological problems of a sewage farm ; and therefore, whilst am
Iquite prepared to give          credit for a desire to the proper conduct
                          would ask him to consider how far he has the
of his sewage-grounds,
requisite knowledge to dogmatize on the subject. Whilst
                                                                     eulogizes
the manner in which the sewage-grounds are conducted, where are the

sanitary engineers to approve it, though any one of them could rid them
of much
         o-f  their  abomination  ?
              has    avoided the            as  to  how  many  tons  of  water-
                                  question

cresses have been sent from the sewage-grounds during the last six

Imonths.             denies that badly-conducted sewage-grounds cause

disease in cattle.    affirm it. It becomes then a matter of credibility
of statement. My affirmations in the former cases were accepted by

the Court of Chancery ; those of his party were discredited, and a decree
was obtained. The same exactness and truthfulness which carried the

causes before will carry them again, if the disease in cattle should ever

occur under circumstances when oaths can be administered. Perhaps

          , from his habit of using universal denials, is not aware that his
letter of the 20th is little short of an accusation of fraud. Does not

Ithis come with a bad grace from a party who have suffered from repeated

judgments, to which they have submitted? have neither interest in nor
Ifavouritism to any particular sewage process, though inventors have

generally submitted them for my inspection, and believe that no person

wishes to interfere with sewage farms if they are properly conducted, but

every one desires to aid the cause when they are conducted in the spirit of

earnestness and truth.

October 22.
394                               APPENDIX.                [No. XXXVI.B.

                                     No. XXXYI.B.

SEWAGE, SEWAGE PRODUCE, AND DISEASE. Paper read

      before the Health Section of the Social Science Congress, held at
      Norwich, October 3rd, 1873, by ALFEED SMEE.

ONE of the most serious problems of the day connected with medical

social science is the question of the effect of sewage-grounds, as now

conducted, on the public health.

      The present system is to collect sewage by drains arising from each
house in a town. These are joined together, first, according to streets,

then according to districts, till the whole forms one vast and continuous

stream, which flows by night and by day, differing somewhat in amount

according to the hour of the day, till it reaches its outfall.
     From this point the great stream is again subdivided over a territory

of varying extent, when the sewage is supposed to be disinfected by the
land, and the quasi-purified water is again collected into a channel, which

has its outpourings in one of the rivers of the district.

      During the whole course, sewage is a dangerous nuisance, tends to
many deaths, and more cases of illness, which by skill and prudence, acting
with due regard to the rules of social science, may be averted.

     In the first part of its course, the sewage is in a state of fermentation,

decomposing and disintegrating the solid matters to such an extent that

pieces of paper, which all photographers know may be kept in water for

days and weeks, are torn to shreds, and at the outfall nothing but dis-

coloured water with slimy particles are to be seen.

     During this fermenting process, the so-called sewer gases are exhaled,

faint and sickening in odour, and unmistakably, according to the experi-

ence of all medical men, the cause of typhoid fever and other diseases.
     IfA preventable cause of these maladies is to be found in the successful
dissipation of the sewage gases.  pent up in the sewers, as they are
reported to be at the West-end of London, they find their way into the
houses and poison the inhabitants. The whole doctrine and practice of

Iventilation ought to be regarded in this part of the subject to dissipate or
alter the poison.  have known cases of typhoid fever at the top of a hill,

from the drain forming a flue, acting as certainly as the tall chimney used
by the manufacturer, to carry the sewer poison directly into the rooms of

the dwelling-house.

     In the city of London ventilating openings are placed in the centre of
the streets, and it is rather grotesque to see openings on either side of a
narrow lane trapped, while in the centre, about two feet distant, a venti-
lating shaft is left open. Upon the whole, this ludicrous plan is better
than that adopted at the West-end of London, where these openings are
either wanting or much less frequent. The distribution of sewage gases

Istill requires study and experiment to render them innocuous to the public.
  should myself recommend the trial of small shafts from the sewers to the
tops of the houses from the house drains. The engineer to the city of
London has, however, presented a most important exhaustive report upon
this subject, demonstrating all the dangers and difficulties, but candidly

confessing that he is unable to settle the questions which have arisen.
No. XXXVI.B.]                  APPENDIX.                               395

At the outfall of the town, if of any magnitude, a river of sewage
exists, carrying down stones,  brickbats,    bottles, sticks,
rubbish. As may be expected,   the stench    is equal to the    and other solid
                                                               increased volume
of the sewage. About thirty gallons per day may be reckoned roughly for
every inhabitant of a town, and at Croydon the magnitude of the sewage
river is sufficient to work a turbine wheel, a form of hydraulic apparatus
used in France, but very seldom in this country. Of the few employed, it
may be mentioned that one is used for the manufacture of the paper used
for the Bank of England notes. The amount of sewage yielded by a
town may be understood when it is stated that the sewage of Croydon for
one day would cover an acre 15 feet deep, and for the year 5475 feet deep.
The sewage river exhaling its pestiferous gases ought to be protected
in any well-devised scheme ; but it is a curious fact that the moment sew-
age is removed from a town it appears to cease to be an object of thought
and attention to the authorities of the town.

The usual practice is, for the councillors of a town to carry their
sewage to the boundary of the land under their control, and then pass it
to the land in the district of their neighbours, when economy and not

efficiency guides their actions.

     In any part of a medical social science scheme for dealing with

sewage, every district should dispose of its own sewage; thus Croydon

should not purify itself by poisoning Beddington, nor Enfield by poison-

ing Edmonton.
As an example of the utter recklessness of the council of a town to
the inhabitants of another district, it was alleged, upon many strong
affidavits, that Croydon had so purified its water that it was fit to enter
I ItrheeplieWda, nudpleonfoarffidthaeviti,nh"atbhiatat ntswaosf
                                        the  next parish to drink ! mildly
                                       not   aware of any process which could

turn sewage into a good potable water." The Croydon irrigators adhered

Ito their statement, and were not a little surprised and disconcerted when
  rejoined that their statement disposed of all difficulties, for they had only
continuously to pump back the transformed sewage into their own water
tanks when the law proceedings would be terminated, a test of the perfec-
tion of their process which Croydon never for one moment contemplated.
As a fundamental principle of a medical social treatment of sewage,
one person ought not to be relieved at the expense of a second.
      The river of sewage freed from large matters is next conducted by
various channels to the land, as, theoretically, earth is capable of assimi-
lating to itself the manurial particles, and of separating the water.
Now comes into play the overwhelming difficulties which are afforded
by the small quantity of solid sewage which exists in proportion to the
enormous quantity of water.
About a quarter of a century ago a company was formed by an enthu-
siastic sewage irrigator, and a pumping engine was erected at Fulham.
Within a mile of the pumping engine one of the principal gardens which
supplied Covent Garden exists, and the company requested me to offer to
Ilay down suitable pipes and supply sewage    gratuitously, as  an experiment.
                                             for the purpose    of offering this
  visited Messrs. Fitch with the landowner
supposed boon ; and,  after a  long   discussion, each of the partners pointed
out the necessity to  get the  water
                                       off the land if successful culture was

desired, and they declined the offer.
396  APPENDIX.  [No. XXXVLu.

      Those experienced cultivators at once hit the blot of successful sewage
application, for the problem still remains, how to separate the water from
the sewage in solution.

      Practically, it is not now done. The sewage is passed over the land,
which for a short time absorbs the water, but the sewage continues to run
by night and day, the land becomes water-logged, and refuses to take more.

It becomes inactive, and putrescible water runs over the land to the neigh-

bouring brook, there to poison those who have recourse to it for drinking

purposes.

     It is pretended, by the Croydon Local Board, that about 150 feet

of sewage in depth is filtered by every square foot of ground per annum,
which amounts to about seven times the natural rainfall of the district ;
an amount which is so preposterous that, with the feeblest intelligence,
the councillors ought to know it is practically impossible.

      When the land is water-logged, the earth is not aerated, and what
soaks through passes to the springs of the district, and renders them
poisonous. Wells near the Sewage Farm of Croydon cannot be used,
being thoroughly poisoned by the pestilential sewage.

     It is not a disposal of the sewage question for the inhabitants of a

town to turn the sewage into the wells of the next village ; and this is a
question in social science which requires a vigorous treatment.

      As the sewage is supplied over a large area, all good water supply
ceases. The cattle are compelled to drink sewage, and the men, under the
great pressure of thirst, seek the cleanest water they can find, although,
if taken near the farm, it is poisonously contaminated with putrescible

matter.

      As a matter of medical social science the wells of a district should
never be allowed to be poisoned, if possible ; and, if impossible, without an

adequate supply of pure and wholesome water being afforded.
       When the land is water-logged, the sewage passes over the surface,

when, instead of the pestilential effluvia being restricted to a channel a
few feet wide, it is spread over acres of surface, where the utmost possible
amount of sewage poison is communicated to the atmosphere.

      What a perversion of medical social science it is for the doctors of a
town to protest against the exhalation from a few square feet of exposed
sewage, and yet to regard as immaterial the effluvium of hundreds of acres

of sewage marsh.
      But the sewage, as it runs over the earth, is now generally caused to

run through rye-grass, because the irrigators say that grass has a cleansing
effect. They are true to this extent, that the grass acts as a sort of brush
to the sewage, and the pestiferous slime adheres to the blades of the grass,
to be carried elsewhere, to be eaten by cattle. When the sewage grass is

made into hay, this slime is still adherent ; and, if it be steeped in water,

the infusion is acted upon by the sewage ferment, and sometimes putrefies

with disgusting effluvia.

       Sewage irrigation cannot be said to be practised according to the rules
of social science until the irrigation is so conducted that the earth does not
become water-logged, and until the grass is not besmeared with all the

Ifpoisonous materials which sewage contains.

           the sewage-ground remains wet, vegetation is crippled, and it is
quite remarkable to observe how the roots of trees rot and how the trees
No. XXXVI.B.]                  APPENDIX.                           397

are blown over in the sewage-ground when the ground is water-logged.
Rose-trees, &c., are shown, in the committees of the Houses of Parliament,

us samples of sewage culture, which could not have existed on water-logged
sewage-grounds as now ordinarily conducted.

     It has been stated that there is at the present time no town sewage

ground which does not exhale its detestable stench, and which does not

leave all the slush on the surface or on the grass. It is a curious fact that,

when the slush is left on the surface of the ground, it still exhales, after

Ithe earth is dry, the faint, nauseous odour of sewage ; and have walked

over sewage fields in the depth of winter, when even intense frost has not
prevented the faint and sickening exhalation from dry ground.

       When the earth is dried after sewage irrigation, vegetation is prodi-
gious, oats attain incredible growth of straw, monster cabbages are raised,

extraordinarily-sized onions may be grown, but then, without particular

care, their juices are impaired, and their texture is so imperfect that they

have a tendency to rot.

     It is necessary for the perfection of the vegetable tissue that the sew-

age should be commingled with the earth and changed in its nature before

it is absorbed by the plant. Asparagus watered with putrid manure is
most offensive, even after having been cooked. The strawberry, if watered
too late with liquid manure, becomes disgusting ; and it has been noticed
that cabbages become bad, and cauliflowers nauseous, if grown in unde-

composed foul manures.
      Sewage produce is grown at one spot and transferred to another ; so it

is almost impossible to trace its baneful effects. Cartloads of watercresses
are sold in London, where some sewage (for they will not grow in pure
sewage) runs directly over them, so that their stalks are smeared with the
excrete of typhoid fever cases, with the epithelial scales of scarlet fever,

and with the ova of entozoon. And what may not happen, if we are again
afflicted with the scourge of cholera, if persons eat vegetables besmeared

with cholera virus ? Sewage produce not only contains within it, but has
disposed upon its surface, the germs of all contagious diseases, and who can
tell how many isolated cases of disease may have happened from this
source ? for who can tell whence their food has come ? and who can tell

where sewage produce goes ?
      The followers of social medical science should take steps that persons
may not be poisoned unawares, and, when the mother goes to market to
                               vegetables for her offspring, that she should not
provide   the necessary fresh  fever, a typhoid fever, a diarrhoea, or a cholera.
buy at   great cost a scarlet
One town produces the poison, another, perhaps far distant, is affected by
it ; and as the peer, as well as the poor man, in the great metropolis, has
    depend upon the public markets for his vegetable    supplies,  competent
authorities ought to take care that wholesome food,     and not    contagious
to'
           is
                                                               a

                                        I
                                              I

                                                                                                                             a

                                                                                        if
                                                                                                                                                            ii
poison, sold to the public.         food upon cows        have lately called the
      To the  influence of sewage   to be worse at one  season than at another.
attention of
              the public. It seems
When the experiment was tried in the spring, the milk became putrescible,
atHtionnedgrpeulasicosaehgedaadiisdnidftrethohemseombdtheuifetftoiecpfruu.tlthtryeeBsamcoribtiishllkees. wineasrAestwosafoarhmrobwaapdsltahcteeha,aswtwhyohetlethenesk,yonmoincweo,umltdfheielwknobchteaosnubterpbsl,eausndeids.-
                            APPENDIX.                          [No. XXXVI.B.

contains any putrescible matter, it will show itself by an offensive odour,

and the amount in the milk may be determined by the amount of the odour

and the length of time over which it is exhaled. Experiments are still

proceeding on this matter.
      Many attacks of typhoid fever have been traced to milk ; and as it

is no small difficulty, from the nature of the case, to trace an attack of
typhoid fever to milk, we may assume that there have been ten attacks

from that cause for every one that has been detected.

      When milk has been the vehicle of typhoid poison, the following causes

have been assumed :

      1. Foul water, containing typhoid poison, had been added to the

milk.

      2. The milk had absorbed the typhoid poison from the air.
      3. The cow had been in a diseased state.

      4. The cow had drunk sewage.

      5. The cow had eaten sewage deposited on the outside of the grass.

      6. The cow had eaten grass the juices of which have been affected.

      In the last cases the milk becomes putrescible, and, according to all

known science, capable of either producing or conveying the poison.

     In the recent epidemic at Marylebone, the source of the typhoid was

traced to milk supplied by the Reform Dairy Company, and there the clue

appears to be lost ; and much more information is required, under all the

circumstances of the case, before any one is warranted in forming a decided

opinion.

      The Reform Dairy Company, however, had, some years ago, a contract

with the Metropolitan Sewage Company for the supply of milk from the

sewage farm at Barking.

      The Reform Dairy Company complained that the milk would not keep,

but turned sour and stank.

      By direction of the Reform Dairy Company the Metropolitan Sewage

Company added to the milk at various times sulphate of soda, silicate of

soda, phosphate of soda, and sulphide of sodium, to prevent the milk from

going bad ; nevertheless, the Reform Dairy Company alleged that the milk
still continued to be very bad, and in the spring of 1869 the Reform Dairy

Company claimed a considerable sum of money for damages on account of
loss of customers from the bad milk, and proceedings at law were taken

by the Reform Dairy Company to recover the same.
      The Reform Dairy Company attributed the mischief to the bad water

the   cows   drank ;  and the water  of one well was reported  by an analyst
" as  unfit  for man  or beast."

      Since the action, the Reform Dairy Company were so impressed with

the danger of putrescible milk from sewage-grounds, that they determined

to have no more sewage milk

     It appears that two epidemics of typhoid fever have appeared in esta-

blishments whilst supplied with milk from the Croydon Sewage Farm, one
at Beddington Schools, by the Wandle, where about sixty were attacked,

and three died ; one at the Clerks' schools, where one child and one gover-
ness died. The second case was communicated to me by the Secretary

lately, and was not known to me before. In these two cases it has been

stated that there were unfavourable conditions in the houses, beside the

supply of milk.
No. XXXVI.B.]                  APPENDIX.                                        399

      The use of bad milk affects the rich as well as the poor; and the
twenty deaths and the 200 attacks of fever which occurred lately from
poisoned milk distributed in Marylebone occurred amongst those in a good
position in society.

      Milk is of such paramount importance to a metropolitan community,
that it should be an object of solicitude to the medical social inquirer that
it should be given to the public free from poisonous taint.

     All medical men treat typhoid and other fevers by milk, and what can

be more contrary to scientific principles than to supply a fever case with
putrescible milk ? Hence the most stringent rules should be adopted to
keep milk from the dangerous proximity to sewage ; so that the cupidity

of man should not cause it to be added to the milk, nor the thirst of the
cow for it to be drunk, and thus to be passed on to the milk. Every house-
hold knows that when the nurse is injudicious in diet the baby cries, and
cowf eeders are fully aware that when cows eat wormwood the milk is bitter,
and when they partake of garlic it is highly tasted.

       The effect of sewage food on the health of cattle and sheep is well

known to be deleterious. It has lately been stated by Mr. Scott that the

cows of Edinburgh, where they are fed upon sewage grass, have so high a

Imortality, that the Cattle Insurance Company refused to renew the insur-

ance ; and have the authority of the late auditor of the company for
stating that the enormous claims paid by the company for the Edinburgh
 cows insured by them, and which died, ruined the company, and the refusal

to renew the insurance came too late.
An intelligent man who worked upon a sewage farm informed me

that many of the sheep    on   the  farm,   a"s   anybody  might reasonably have
expected, became, to use  his  own   word,       rotten."  The rot in sheep is due

to an entozoon called a fluke, which in the human being becomes an
hydatid, and whilst sheep had the rot and were passing the ova of hydatids,
the water was flowing to watercresses, from whence this terrible malady
(which is estimated to kill 400 persons annually) might conveniently be
conveyed by its host to the interior of man.

     In 1869 a great epidemic broke out on the sewage-grounds of Croydon
amongst the cattle, about which there were strange reports. To clear up
the mystery, the following questions were sent to the Croydon Board, who

declined to answer them :
1. How many cattle existed on the sewage-ground before the epidemic

appeared ?                             from any other locality?     if so, how
      2. Had cattle been introduced

many, and from whence ?
3. On what day did murrain appear on the irrigation-ground ?
    How many cattle have been attacked in all since        that day ?
4.  Have any cattle since that day been killed ? and,                    many   ?
5.                                                         if so, how

If6.    sold, to  whom were the carcases consigned ?       if  so,  who  inspected
    Were the      carcases used for human food ? and,
7.
*******9 What are the number of cattle now on the sewage-grounds P
them, to see that they were fit to be eaten ?    for       human food? if so,   were
      8. Have any cattle been sold other than    in                             that
                                                           the sewage-grounds,
the purchasers informed that murrain existed
the contagion might not be propagated ?
400                                                    APPENDIX.                   [No. XXXVI.B.

     It is reported that twenty cattle died last winter on the sewage-grounds

of Croydon, and that four horses died this summer, so that it is both

heartless and cruel for Boards of Health to sell sewage grass as a healthy

produce.

     In this case, again, the cattle are fed at one place, sold to a butcher at

a second, and distributed for food to a third, and the person who eats them

does not know that he is eating sewage-fed cattle, nor can any person tell

where the sewage cattle are sent.
      When illness arises from the use of bad meat, how is the poor person

to trace it, when the local so-called Boards of Health will not assist, but

Iresist the application for information in a contemptuous way ?
          once asked a clerk, who was troubled with tapeworm, why he bought
second-rate meat, which might have been grown on a sewage farm. He

I IIf"reTphlieedn,"thartejhoeinehda, d""awhlayrgddeoo  family, and could not afford to pay more.
                                                                                   it, to
germs of disease ?"                                     you not thoroughly cook    " the   destroy any
                                                       so," was the ready answer,          meat would

so waste that there would not be enough to go round." The tapeworm in

the man and the wasting of the meat showed the diseased state of the food

consumed ; but the councillors of one town do not eat the diseased meat
it ultimately finds its way to other towns, and the poor man obtains no

protection. In this case it is hardly to be expected that either a Bishop or
a Chancellor will suffer from disease or tapeworm as a sacrifice for the good
of the people, because they obtain good meat, and it is left to the middle -

class clerk to suffer from the cupidity of the sewage irrigators.

      Labourers and navvies cannot perform their labour without good
meat, and they contrive, when in full work, to get the best beef, and leave

it to those above them, with limited incomes, to eat that which is inferior.

    If social science is here to step in to protect the people, it must act at

the source of the mischief, where the cattle become diseased, and stop the

supply thence to the cities.
      The sewage-grounds, after long-continued irrigation, become converted

into pestilential swamps, which snipes and wild ducks visit in winter, and
which exhale the most disgusting effluvium. The stench varies with the

weather. In a bright, windy day, it is comparatively little apparent, but
in a close evening it is most disgusting.

     Why such a state of things, contrary to social scientific principles,

should not always give rise to cholera, typhoid and scarlet fever, no
medical man can tell. But when these diseases have a tendency to appear,
then the action of the sewage poison intensifies the maladies. And upon
these grounds social science ought to interfere and compel the sewage
irrigators to conduct their operations without causing these poisonous

exhalations.

      Whether it is possible on a large scale, by under-draining or other-

wise, to thoroughly purify the water, remains to be proved ; but when we

see a large sewage-ground, as that of Croydon, left undrained, the proba-

bility of any improvement seems hopeless.

     It may be possible, by a thin distribution of sewage say not more

than two feet in depth per annum, in favourable porous soils to dispose
of sewage, that it may all be taken into the earth. There is no doubt

that such an absorption might be effected in some uplands in the vicinity

of Croydon ; but as there are 4,000,000 gallons per day to be disposed
No. XXXVI.B.]                    APPENDIX.                                 401

of, no less than 2,700 acres would be required to take the water. The
Iamount is

conception
annum of
amount    stohoeflar1sge,e4w6a0tgheamt oitlflhioeCnrmoyigndadolnlodnoseuspononfottshreeewaalicgzheea, iirtmw, ahfonicr'hs whsisotactteahmne efnsoturmmofapinetysr
          at 4,000,000 gallons a day, though
it would                                           should  have thought that
          not have averaged above half that amount P
If IibbfnlerutoioopdkuAa.tisnfretoecstIlchreniebatrrlhpe;er,mabcswaeutiihwtcn,eeang,snetortietthswaeoomiautihr.kgrsshigtttaahnntrodotohritunegtgioshwiohbttefsohtleeebanrllilhoganawnhesdtegn,dfleieltstchtestoe,rfueplwdiatas;stitsheartrnfoordeiustqghuecheonhnltlhtaeeleyvcigteeehfadosbreutoehnaun,dgratinahitnnoge
acre or more transformed into a small sewage lake, from whence the
sewage has run unchanged into the river, to act as a poison to the inha-
bitants who live lower down the stream.

     It is not safe to trust our senses to discover a small quantity of
sewage in a large quantity of water. On the occasion of the last visitation

I Iof cholera, was aware of a well the water of which was poisoned.
urged the immediate removal of the pump handle, but loud were the
remonstrances of some of our most eminent bankers, who were thus
deprived of their usual water for luncheon. The water was proved to have
been derived from the worst of all possible sources ; but the presence of
saline matters in water is as                   human beings as it is to cattle.
                                 attractive to  irrigation as now practised is     a
     It is perfectly manifest    that sewage
failure,
          commercially as well   as  practically, for the disposal  a  of sewage,   as
sewage    farms are continually  to                                     question
                                     let. It therefore becomes                     for
social science to endeavour to devise, if practicable, some more perfect
system for the disposal of sewage. On a small scale this has been effected

by the earth closet ; but this has never been adapted to a town, and its

practical use on   a large scale presents  many    difficulties and dangers.
                   plan than irrigation    can be  discovered, then social science
     If no better

must determine whether any mode can be adopted to destroy the sewage

matter before it goes upon the ground. The Lime process, the Salts of
Iron process, the A. B. C. process, Anderson's precipitating process (as
used by the General Sewage and Manure Company), Scott's process, and

others too numerous to mention, are in this direction. If any plan for

the thorough destruction of the poisonous character of sewage can be
discovered, great good will be effected. Some of these processes have
been highly extolled; but further experience is required before the uni-

versal adoption of any such plan can be recommended.

      The influence of carbolic acid in determining the mode of putrefaction

is very remarkable. It is stated that it has been applied with success to

sewage ; but a more extended experience is required before it can at
present be recommended on a large scale. The influence of animal char-

coal, peat charcoal, and cinders, has also to be considered and made the

subject of further experiment ; but hitherto they have not been reported
to be successful, and every process appears to fail to get rid of the urea.

      Unquestionably difficulties present themselves in dealing with the
sewage question. Financial companies are said to have large sums of
money invested upon a false estimate of the high money value of sewage.

The Mapplin Sand speculation influences the matter ; complicated private
interests are interfered with ; and some landowners get as much as 10 an

                                                                       2D
402             APPENDIX.                            [No. XXXVI.B.

acre to permit sewage to be used on their land. The mode in which the
subject is handled by committees of both Houses of Parliament, where
so-called skilled witnesses have made the most ignorant and exaggerated
statements of the money value of sewage and the perfection of irrigation,
has interfered seriously with the scientific solution of the question. Not-

withstanding all these difficulties, medical social science has only steadily

to point out the ill effects of sewage irrigation, when we may confidently
predict that ultimately the sewage irrigators will be compelled to respect

the health of the general community as well as that of their own town,

that the public may be protected against a vitiated atmosphere, poisoned
water, water-logged soil, sewage- tainted vegetables, putrescible milk, and

diseased meat.

     It is curious with regard to all sewage questions, that the facts are

cross-stated. Whilst independent and disinterested observers see the great

evils attendant upon the system as now practised, others, who are in-
terested either in the promotion of sewage irrigation or continuing it,

speak of the results in the most superlative manner  The dis-

sentients are fully entitled to ask that all sewage produce should be labelled
Ifas such.
              the produce is as good as the sewage irrigators declare, such
a course must enhance its price; but if it is as indifferent as impartial
observers state, then those who do not like it will not have it thrust upon

them by stealth.

      The problem of the day is, how to deal with sewage in our inland

towns, as vast sums of money have been already spent. The treatment of
the subject requires great prudence and moderation, for it is clear, where
millions of gallons of water have to be dealt with, that the fluid must

ultimately go by some river or channel to the sea, or be distributed over so
Iflarge a surface that it can be absorbed by the earth, a case which can but
rarely happen.  a due supply of water for ordinary cleanliness be em-

Iployed, the resultant discharge of water from large towns must always be
enormous.       submit that the only safe plan, under the circumstances, is

to confess our ignorance, and to set to work experimentally to decide the
question at issue. First, let us try to keep the sewage proper within a
more reasonable compass and separate from the enormous bulk of water
with which it is mixed. Secondly, let us endeavour to destroy the poison-
ous character of the sewage, and get it into a state adapted for vegetation.

Thirdly, let us endeavour to cleanse the water by precipitation, and then
by filtration through so large an area of land that a pestilential marsh is

not created.

     When all these things are effected, and the public health secured, it

will be time to consider the economical bearing of the problem ; but life

and health ought to be considered before any question of wealth and gain.

     It is folly to trust the management of sewage to town councils, con-
stituted as they usually are, especially whilst we are ignorant of the best

plan to be pursued. The only practical method is for the country to place
the sewage from one or two of our large towns under trained persons,

accustomed to original investigation and to the interrogation of nature, to

work out experimentally the matter, that the country may know upon

what principles, under varying circumstances, the distribution of sewage
may be rendered innocuous, when, from the circumstances of the case, it
cannot be carried to the wide ocean, which, with our present knowledge, is
the safest plan that can be followed.
No. XXXVI.c.]     APP.KNDIX.

                  No. XXXVI.c.

PROPOSED HEADS OF LEGISLATION FOR THE REGULATION

      OF SEWAGE-GROUNDS. Paper read before the Society of Art*,
      Dec. 1, 1875, by ALFRED SMEE.

THE extension of the water-closet system in our towns during the last
quarter of a century has been attended with great convenience to the
inhabitants of individual towns, but the consequences have entailed
corresponding injury on the general public. The quantity of water
required for the water-closet system amounts to about thirty gallons
per head a day, which for a town of reasonable magnitude causes a
river of sewage to run from the town, which has to be disposed of.

     At first the sewage was carried to the nearest stream in such quantities

that every river in England was converted into a huge sewer, and the

Thames itself on one occasion was black from the putridity of the sewage
matters discharged into its waters.

The pollution of rivers was of so serious an extent that a Rivers
Pollution Commission was instituted, and steps were taken to prevent

our rivers from being destroyed and contaminated by the sewage of

our towns.

To remove sewage from the rivers it was determined to apply it to the

earth, and at first the most exaggerated notions were entertained by high

authorities as to its value as a manurial agent, and theorists indicated that

by its use so much vegetation would be grown, and so large an amount of
meat produced, that every one in this land who scarcely tasted animal

food once a week would have a daily and ample supply.

Unfortxinately, however, such fallacious hopes have been long dis-

sipated. Sewage irrigation has been found, as a general rule, to be a

troublesome, an expensive, and an unsatisfactory process. Wherever

practicable, it is preferable to carry it to the wide ocean, there to be

oxidized by the winds and waves ; and only when that is impossible from
the distance to be traversed, are sewage-grounds, with the present state of

our knowledge, to be adopted.
      There are situations where the water-closet system is employed, in

which it is necessary to purify the sewage, and in these cases the question

of the conduct of irrigation-grounds has to be considered.
      The theory of returning to the earth, by sewage, that which is taken

from the earth by food, commands our respect and attention. But the
sewage is diluted with so much water that it cannot be practically returned
to the earth in a suitable state for plants. Up to this moment it has not
been satisfactorily separated from the fluid so as to be economically
applicable in a dry state, and the enormous bulk of the liquid prevents its
being economically employed in the fluid state.

     In considering the qualities of sewage, the large quantity of in-

organic poisonous matter which is cast into sewers deserves notice.
Cyanide of potassium and the refuse of all the photographic establish-
ments, various metallic poisons from the electro-chemical works, the fluid
residue of various manufactories, disinfecting solutions, &c., are passed

into the sewage.                                       2D2
404  APPEXDIX.  [No. XXXVI.c.

      Sewage has had so poisonous an effect on the river Thames that
where fish formerly abounded none are now to be found. Within my
memory flounders were caught in abundance between London and

Southwark bridges. At Erith abundance of fish used to be caught, but
now it appears that the river there is void of fish. Lamperns are now

only taken by hundreds where thousands were formerly caught, and eels

are gradually disappearing.
       Sewage-grounds are to be employed solely for the purpose of sanitary

protection. All questions of cost must be subordinate to sanitary science.

Sewage-grounds should never be employed except in the absence of better

methods of disposing of the sewage, and when used should be regarded as
a necessity, to be placed under the most stringent regulations, to protect
the health of those exposed to their influence, and to protect damage to
property which may arise from their vicinity.

       The idea of profit from sewage-grounds is fortunately now exploded.
The real object is to get rid of the sewage at the least possible cost, and by

the least objectionable method, and if judiciously used the value of the

produce may tend to diminish the expense of the abatement of the

nuisance, and that is all which is possible to be effected. In some cases a

subvention from the town may be necessary to get rid of the sewage.

       Sufficient experience has been afforded of the properties of sewage-
grounds to enable us to settle the chief points which are required to be

enforced for their proper conduct, and it is manifestly desirable to obtain

a legislative enactment that they may be so controlled that they may inflict
a minimum injury on the health of the adjacent inhabitants, and the least

Ifpossible depreciation of the value of the neighbouring property.

            sanitary science be true, then is the principle on which sewage-

grounds have been hitherto conducted false ; and if the principle of the

present conduct of sewage-grounds be true, then is all known sanitary

 science false.

       The usual plan which is adopted for the location of a sewage-ground
 is to select a spot in a district away from the town to be cleansed, so that

 in fact the nuisance is simply transferred from one district to a second
which has no voice in the management, and the residents of which are

 powerless to help themselves against the encroachment. Thus Croydon
 cleanses itself, but pollutes Beddington. Croydon has no interest but to
 save expense to itself, whilst Beddington has to suffer from the parishioners
 of Croydon.

       This manifest injustice might be remedied by requiring a majority of
 the ratepayers of any other parish to concur in the establishment of a
 sewage-ground within its district. Should a sewage-ground be formed in
 any neighbouring parish without such leave, a fine might be inflicted of

   100 a day. The fine may appear large, but the irrigators having to deal
 with the funds of the ratepayers would take no heed of small sums, unless,

indeed, it was enacted that the persons violating the order should pay the

 amount of the fine from their own pockets, when probably a much

smaller fine would be adequate. At present the sewage is no more disposed
of by carrying it from one district to another than if the housemaid of one

 house were to throw the refuse over the wall of her master's house into the

 garden of the adjoining house.
       When a sewage-ground is proposed to be located, the scheme should,
No. XXXVI.c.]            APPENDIX.                                            405

ofacctbapoiioswnaannrnflrfeepreodieanctateuehedoeboexnsreltcflrvyah.eheeetmovtsihinhnuenostpeTrtoalnftdaselehoeretedryae,ecbitfrsthwfhceifehtesnoaheiesceatdrrauattatogtllrukcCykhfrsefertorurseeconsouaocrotmnyc.iflrnlttoeaddvhnst.foctemaashioTnynfttenuhihiehgnclAiesenasgheeonuvrtwicrgenrtyrtrhfraerhatariecoegdepgeccrune,alekaacas-npshctcgeibipdkonoeworeeosoicfncaahrtuwegaoarenpefhlpsildortsbio,phcsfpsetbhorauoaaomaawtirrvrnbedtseariesdlsistiitystdhgeutwemoviaraafafntaobitellstrtyfestiieeyodeheswrpmsnwelaiaoainasoniugrsglogfetneefgeonws.swdiefnieasddadsiiwgrhmnnThtegeoehohpripursolaueeeeoffluvaldnrnrdnneortdgtqoamrdbmuetautnehprn.gecn,atsacees'eusahvt,dhsiiAaowtopahanigfnidcuvtaobniaheonbilireienridmtnonll'iosgisc",f-t;
these fissures, which exist all round London, opens up very serious con-
siderations, as the water is liable to contamination from cesspools. The
importance of the subject has attracted the attention of engineers, and
may possibly be the subject of a paper at some future period. The
employment of a sewage-ground without the approval of a public officer
should be forbidden under a penalty of at least 50
                                                          a day.    employed  for
     At the present time parts of the sewage-ground       actually
Iiwrrhhigaicvahetioihsnegarrfderaeitqtlyugeidvnaetmnlyaiganebdue.tvidoeIntnciesthaeblespfoorroferpeaeqructoeymnotmflyitntaeebeiguhottbfinothgueroinHngotuhpseerohpoirgfiheLtwooarrdsy,.s
that a sewage-ground was so near suburban villas, that the inmates played
at croquet upon the very verge of the pestilential marsh so created, a state

Iof things which should be rigidly prevented. At Beddington, have often
seen the irrigation carried to the very verge of the high road, or beside the
property of neighbouring landowners. Now not less than 200 yards should
intervene between the part irrigated and any highway or adjoining pro-
perty, under a penalty of not less than 10 a day. The interval of 200
yards is by no means sufficient under all circumstances to fully protect
the public from the abominable stench and pestiferous effluvia of sewage-
grounds, though it would afford very substantial relief from the emana-
tions whenever the
                    matumgogsyph"ereevepnoinsgsesssethde  an average state   of diffusive
power. In calm "                                                              manifestly
                                                           distance will be

insufficient, and therefore should be increased wherever practicable. The

nuisance committed by the emanations of a sewage-ground varies every

day, and at every hour of the day, with the atmosphere. In a clear bright
day, with wind and a rapid motion of the air upwards, it is reduced to a
minimum. In evening and morning with slight haze and stillness it is

increased to a maximum.
I IAt the time was writing the work ' My Garden,' was examining
Ihistorical remains on the sewage-grounds.
                                                          was there one evening (when
only one irrigation had taken place) ; the ground had dried, and the grass-

Iseed was sown, and yet the stench at sundown was so intolerable that we

were glad to leave the place. have also been at the sewage-grounds during

frost, and even then the exhalations were most offensive and disagreeable.

The fact is, that unless the sewage is defecated before irrigation, a

layer of faxial matter is deposited on the surface of that part of the ground

which has no crops upon it ; and if there are crops, the faecal matter is
deposited upon the plants growing upon it. For this reason sewage
irrigation cannot be practised without creating a nuisance, except by
406                   APPENDIX.  [No. XXXVI.c.

the previous removal of the solid matter, and the precipitation of the

greater part of the dissolved parts of the animal matter.
      As defecation is a necessity, the penalty for neglect should certainly

be not less than 50 a day. It would not be desirable to compel sewage to

be defecated by any particular process, because some experience is required
as to which, in the long run, under all circumstances and at all times,

shall have the preference. The processes of precipitation by lime, by

alum, by sulphate of alumina, by phosphate of alumina, by alum, blood,

and clay, are in good repute, for their powers of precipitation, but not for

the expense which they entail. General Scott has invented a remarkable
and very original mode of dealing with the sludge. He converts it into

cement to be used in building, and the similarity of the mud with that

on the Medway, ordinarily employed for the manufacture of cement, is
remarkable. Doubtless this process would never entirely cover the cost of
the purification of sewage, though it may tend, in a great degree, to lessen

the expense.
     There is no question but that sewage may be rendered perfectly bright

and clear by precipitation, even when coloured, as at Leeds, with dye
matters, but then it mostly contains some animal matter in solution, which

has to be afterwards removed. Most praiseworthy attempts have been

made to render this precipitate of real agricultural value. The sludge

ought to contain all the manurial properties, but probably it is altered, for
farmers will hardly carry it away at one shilling a ton. Some inventors
have sought to add to it elements which may increase its value ; but

although some of those products are claimed to have a value of from

  3 to 4 a ton, experience does not warrant us in saying that any one

process, up to this time, is a substantial commercial success. It is a

curious fact that the sludge of a charcoal process has the remarkable
power of oxidizing organic matter, from the animal charcoal which it
contains, and if      animal be placed in it the flesh will be entirely destroyed
without smell.    an
                      ever one process be found which shall yield a precipitate
                  If

of universally acknowledged value, the difficulties of the sewage question
will in a great measure be overcome. The question is not yet quite satis-
factorily determined which process, taking into consideration the value of

the resulting product, is attended with least expense. The sewage water

Iwhen defecated and precipitated should pass into the ground, and not over

the ground ; for when it passes over the ground, as have myself often
seen, it passes off as sewage with all its concurrent evils.
     The fine for the impropriety of neglecting to cause the water to pass

into the ground might well be fixed at 10 a day, as the result would

greatly depend upon the irrigation being conducted in a proper and suit-

able manner.

     It not unf requently happens that the sewage, when allowed improperly
to run over the ground, is not retained in the sewage-ground, but passes to

the territory of neighbouring proprietors. This is a serious injury to them,

for whilst the proprietor of the sewage-ground obtains as much as 12 an

acre for permitting the abomination on his land, otherwise not worth 3
an acre, the adjacent owner is subjected to all the evils and inconvenience

without any compensation whatever. A penalty for such a violation of the

Irights of property might be fixed at 20 for every day when such an injury
is inflicted.  have myself seen the places where sewage has overflown the
No. XXXVLc.]  APPENDIX.  407

beautiful park of Beddington for fifty or sixty yards from the neighbouring
sewage-ground.

      The general conduct of the sewage-ground from the commencement of
the process to its termination requires the most careful supervision. The
great artery passing from the town is usually covered up within their own
district, but the moment it passes from their district it is no more an
object of solicitude to the ratepayers of the town, but is frequently left
open to pollute the air of the neighbouring villages.

      Sanitary science enjoins the most vigilant care of sewers in the district,
but the moment the district is crossed, sanitary science is disregarded as
though it were unimportant.

      What the Boards of Health of towns do not do with a good grace they
should be compelled to do under fine, and it would not be unreasonable to

subject them to a fine of 25 a day if they permit their main or sewage

arteries to be exposed within 100 yards of a highway or of any private
property. At the present time it not unfrequently happens that no pre-
caution is taken against the sewage, whether not defecated or defecated,
from passing on to vegetables used for food in a raw state. For instance,
at the fever-stricken town of Oroydon, there are no special precautions
taken to avoid the excreta of a typhoid case from passing to watercresses,

and hence faecal matter may be served back to themselves, or on the tables
of the unsuspecting aristocracy of London, within forty-eight hours from
its passage from a patient about to die of the disease.

      Watercresses act as a scrubbing-brush to the sewage, and remove all
the solid flocculi from the water which adhere to the stalks.

       Typhoid faecal matter is absolutely poisonous in the sanitary district,
but how many persons take it into the stomach after it has passed their
own immediate district the so-called sanitary authorities appear to be

pei-fectly indifferent.
       To prevent this horrible, disgusting, and dangerous outrage on the

community, a penalty of at least 100 a day should be inflicted on any
person growing, or permitting to be grown, salad of any kind upon a
sewage-ground, and the public ought to be further protected against the
cupidity of Boards of Health who would imperil the lives of communities
for a small extra gain, by imposing a penalty of 5 on any person know-
ingly selling salads from sewage-grounds, and this penalty should be
imposed for every offence committed. There is no reason whatever why
unsuspecting persons should be exposed to this loathsome and dangerous
risk, and the fullest protection ought to be offered to the public against it.
Salad may be defined, for the purpose of such protection, to be any plant
ordinarily used by man in an uncooked state.

      As it may be regarded as an undoubted fact that vegetables take up
foul sewage matters, and it requires considerable time before they are
changed in the tissues of the plant, no vegetable ought to be used for
human food, even in the cooked state, until suitable time is allowed for
the assimilation and changing of the sewage matter in the substance of
the plant. The time would necessarily vary with the time of year, the
temperature, the active state of the plant, the amount of light, and various
other conditions, but probably an interval of two months would afford a

 reasonable protection after defecated sewage had been applied to the
 growing plant. The penalty for infraction of the law might be fixed at
408  .APPENDIX.  [No. XXXVI.C.

  20 for every offence, and any otter person knowingly selling such produce

might in like manner be subject to a penalty of 5 for every offence. It

is known in France that when vineyards are irrigated by sewage the
quality of the wine is impaired and not restored for years.

     It cannot be a proper thing for cattle to be fed on food which in its

relation to sewage is Tinder circumstances unfit for the food of man. At
the present moment we are not thoroughly acquainted with the action of
the typhoid fever poison, the cholera poison, or the 'erysipelas poison on
cattle, and until we have such knowledge we should act on the side of
prudence. We know the communicability of disease from one kind of
animal to another. We know that the milk of cows suffering from the

foot-and-mouth disease is highly fatal to pigs, and so we ought to protect
cattle by reasonable care from either eating or drinking the excreta of
diseases of mankind of a contagious character.

      Much grass is sold from sewage farms. Of the state of that grass one
member of a Board of Health has favoured us with an account.

      Probably a penalty of 5 for every offence of the sale or employment
of vegetables for cattle, other than milch cows, less than one month after
the application of sewage, would be an adequate protection to the

community.

      But everybody knows that the milk of all animals is affected by what
the mother eats, and therefore it is much more important that milch cows

should be further protected than cattle : hence a higher penalty may be
inflicted in these cases, and a longer time after irrigation demanded. The
real time actually reqiiired after irrigation must necessarily depend upon
the temperature, the light, the power of assimilation by the plant, as has
already been pointed out ; yet, in a practical way, an interval of six weeks
may be taken as a necessary time which ought to elapse after irrigation,
and this might be enforced by a penalty of 10 for every offence.

       The buyers of the sewage grass, in the state which has been described,
are mostly poor men, of little experience and less knowledge. They
believe that they are buying cheaply and safely, relying upon the honour
of a Board of Health as to the quality ; but whether the sale of such stuff

Ias wholesome grass does not in point of law really amount to a fraud,

must leave to be decided by the legal advisers of Boards of Health.
      We have experimented upon it with cows, but used alone it seemed to

be insufficient for the support of life, and it had to be discontinued to

Iprevent its killing the animal by diarrhoea and wasting. The milk from

cows fed from such grass have ascertained, by numerous experiments, to

Ibe liable to become putrid, while butter made from such milk goes rapidly

rancid, and have found the casein is frequently altered in quality, and
sometimes will actually dialyse. An elaborate account of our investiga-
tions upon this head occurs in my son's book, ' On Milk in Health and
Disease,' and so it is unnecessary to consider the matter further in this

paper.
       No infant or invalid should ever be fed on milk from cows fed with

sewage grass. It is of such great importance to the public to insure the

sale of a pure wholesome milk, that they should abstain from buying milk
of any dairyman who is known to purchase sewage grass. As long as
Boards of Health can sell sewage grass, their cupidity will prevent them
from knowing that sewage grass is immature grass, plus faecal matter.
No. XXXVI.o.]                   APPENDIX.               409

If the addition of faecal matter to grass and hay be right for cattle to
eat, as irrigators pretend, then have all former agriculturists been at fault,

as they ought to have added faical matter to the food wherewith they fed
their cows and heifers.

Either agricultural science is true, and irrigation science is false ; or,
Iirrigation science true, and agricultural science false.
         have suggested to the engineer of the Leeds works that the final
oxidation of animal matter in effluent sewage water may possibly be
Ieffected in the water instead of exposing it on the land. For this purpose

  have ventured to recommend tentatively that it be run through ponds
Ifull of anacharis, which is a rapid grower and gross feeder, and evolves
much oxygen.   have also suggested that beds of reeds might be tried for
the same object. By experiment it has been ascertained at my garden
that the growth of anacharis is enormously promoted by sewage, and

the water is much purified thereby, but how far it may be advantageously

employed on a large scale experience can alone decide.
The water, after it has passed over the sewage-grounds, of necessity
must pass to the nearest river, except in such cases where the ground
absorbs the whole, or where there are underground cracks by which it can
be carried away. At a late meeting of the medical officers of health, one
of the District Board of Croydon pointed out that persons drank the
effluent water, and spoke of it with such apparent delight that but for our

Inatural understanding it might have been supposed that effluent sewage

was a good and proper beverage. have heard other persons descant upon
the merits of effluent sewage for the beverage of the inhabitants of neigh-

bouring villages, but never for their own use. Now a more disgusting

insanitary idea cannot be imagined ; and if the directors of sewage farm
towns have not the good feeling to prevent so filthy a use of sewage by

their neighbours, they surely should be compelled by law to pay the

penalty of their want of decency.
      Those who are likely to drink sewage water are travellers, tramps, and

others, who do not know what it is, and if they contracted disease thereby

would cany it away to distant places. On this account the entire com-
munity is interested in preventing its use unawares. Sewage irrigators,
in the height of their enthusiasm for their subject, have been heard to
declare that persons have preferred their effluent sewage to the well waters

of the district.
      The best protection might be afforded by enacting that every stream
conveying effluent water from any sewage-ground should have a notice-
board affixed at every point where it abuts upon a highway, or on property
               olethgeibrleowlentetresrsu:nti"l  it enters a river, and that the notice should
belonging  to                                    Town Sewage, Effluent Stream, Dangerous
be placed
           in
for Use." The penalty for any neglect should not be less than 50 a day,
as the danger is so great and the remedy so simple. With such a notice-
board our sense of propriety could never again be offended by innocent
persons drinking the water which has passed within a few hours from the
water-closets of sewage towns.
In all sewage farms the water in the district irrigated, or even in the
neighbourhood, is more or less poisoned, according  to the circumstances  of
                                                    poison should afford  au
the case, and it is only reasonable that those who
antidote to the poison. Before a sewage-ground is allowed to pollute the
410  APPENDIX.  [No. XXXVI.c.

springs, pure and good water should be supplied. On the sewage-ground
itself pure water should surely be at hand at stations within 250 yards
of each other at a minimum, and it would be no great hardship to place
such a number of stand-pipes. The penalty for such an obvious neglect of

sanitary principles might be 20 a day.
       There is reason to suspect that milk on sewage farms has been

directly adulterated with sewage, which unfortunately is very difficult to
detect, and permits more to be added with impunity than when pure water
is used ; but at any rate, when employed on sewage farms, cattle should
at least have wholesome water for beverage. Wherever the wells in the
neighbourhood of sewage-grounds are poisoned by sewage, a similar
penalty might be enforced for neglect to supply pure water for the wants

of man and beast.
       Sanitary science forbids the use of well-water contaminated with

sewage, but sanitary administrators take no heed of communicating
sewage to the wells of their neighbours, as they appear to think that
sanitaiy science is unimportant when any expense to themselves is in-
curred. Shallow wells, for instance, near the Croydon irrigation-grounds,
are unfit for use.

       Sewage towns have always been very jealous of giving information,
because it may lead to expense, but Boards of Health ought not to be

allowed to shelter themselves under a suppression of facts. It was only at

Ia late meeting of the medical officers of health, to which was politely

 invited, that all present went away, at 10 o'clock on Saturday night,
 firmly impressed that Croydon was perfectly healthy and free from all
 fever. We were all astonished, but delighted, for many of us considered
 that Croydon was in great peril of serious epidemic diseases. Judge my
 surprise, however, when the first person who came before me on Monday
 morning at the Bank of England informed me that his child had typhoid
 fever. My informant stated that he knew of other cases, and of some

 deaths, and subsequently that his wife and servant had died. These were

 followed on the following Wednesday by the declaration by the Registrar-

 General of five cases of death from fever from Croydon, and the following

Iweek of another five cases. On further inquiry from the inhabitants of

 Croydon, found that cases of fever were interspersed all over the town,
 that a great epidemic was raging in it, so that at the very time that a
 member of the Council Board was giving information to the medical

 officers of health of this great metropolis, the excreta of numerous fever

 cases were being distributed over the sewage-grounds, and no precautions
 were being taken that fever f*cal matter was not served with salad upon
  the tables of the inhabitants of London, Croydon, and the neighbouring

  villages, and no means were taken to prevent innocent persons from

 Idrinking the effluent water which, according to the information of persons

  whom employ to watch the conduct of the sewage-grounds, was to some
  extent running direct from the water-closets of Croydon to the affected

 Istream. The public have a right, after such facts, to possess accurate

 knowledge. At Florence, the rate of death from fever have myself seen

  to be posted weekly at the door of the Registrar to warn the inhabitants,
  and what can be done at Florence can be done at any farm sewage town ;

  then, is it not desirable that the Legislature shall enforce it to be done,
  under a penalty for every omission of 20, and that any person wilfully
No. XXXVI.c.]          APPENDIX.                                                           411

concealing a death from zymotic disease, or giving knowingly any false
information to deceive tlie Registrar, shall be subject to a penalty of 5
for every offence ?

     It is perfectly plain that a certain member of the Croydon Board was
not even   aware that  tahutesrroibnletheep1id5etmh icofoMf atyyp:hoi"dInfesvteear dwaosf
district.   He wrote                                                                       raging in  his
                                                                                            the farm   of

Beddington being a dangerous swamp, a pestilential swamp, a pestiferous

marsh as some persons have stated, no offensive odour can be detected,

and the neighbourhood is not injuriously affected by miasma, neither has

the farm been the means of introducing disease and death into the
district, as its introduction has been coincident with a less death-rate and
a clean bill of health, and in particular no death from fever had occurred
during the whole of last year." Now, if any person living in this lament-

ably fever-stricken town never heard of the epidemic, how are the public
to know that every one of their families was exposed to disease and death ?
How urgently is it required that the members of Boards of Health, instead

of giving imperfect information to the public through the newspapers and

societies, should have the means of knowing the trutfi that they may not

propagate error.

Ninety-one persons have perished from typhoid at Croydon since this

erroneous information has been given to the public. How far might a

right knowledge of the facts have saved valuable lives and permanent

injury to the constitutions of those who have been attacked by disease?
how far might the injury to property have been averted by persons leaving

Croydon or abstaining from taking houses there ? how far might the
panic at this terrible epidemic have been prevented ? This it is hardly
possible to state. Truth alone can restore confidence ; for, in spite of any
amount of newspaper letters to the contrary, Croydon will be regarded

justly with suspicion for a long time to come.
In our consideration of sewage- grounds we should remember that
there are two distinct modes of fermentation of excretal matter; one the

auimoniacal, the other the putrid. The ammoniacal fermentation is used
by the gardener in his hotbeds, and it produces warmth and a genial
atmosphere particularly favourable to the early and perfect growth of all
plants. The putrid fermentation is to be noticed in sewage, which causes
large leafy vegetation with delayed perfection, and so horticultural flowers
have leaf with little or no flower when watered with sewage. Crops grown

under sewage irrigation are always late, and consequently of much less

value in the market.

     In the present state of our knowledge sewage-grounds should be

avoided where practicable, but when they are absolutely necessary, (1) the
sewage-ground should be located by a public officer under the Privy
Council ; (2) the sewage-ground should appertain to its own district, and
on no account be placed in any other parish without leave of the majority
of the inhabitants ; (3) irrigation should not be conducted within 200
yards of any highway or private property ; (4) the sewage should be
carried to the grounds in covered ways, (5) and then defecated; (6) the
fluid should then be passed through the earth ; (7) in some cases it would
pass through the earth to unknown districts, and in others it would pass
off as a stream ; (8) it ought not to run over the neighbouring private
property, (9) but be retained within 200 yards of adjacent lands ; (10) the
                    APPENDIX.                               [No. XXXVI.c.

effluent stream should be labelled, to show what it is ; (11) the sewage
should not be applied to any salad ; and (12) no herbage should be sold or
used less than one month after irrigation has ceased : (13) nor should
herbage be used for milch cows less than six weeks after the cessation of

the irrigation ; (14) no vegetables should be sold for human food within
two months of irrigation ; (15) good and wholesome water should be
supplied to the sewage-grounds, (16) and to any district where the wells
are poisoned by the sewage ; (17) in all towns having sewage-grounds the
Registrar of deaths should post every week at his office the number of
deaths from zymotic diseases, and, where practicable, the number of

persons attacked, particularising the name of the disease.

When all this is done, still the miasmatic, marsh-like influence of a
Ifsewage-ground remains as a perpetual irremediable evil.
                                                            these condi-

tions are requisite for the reasonably safe conduct of sewage-grounds, then

where is there a sewage-ground which has attended to any one of them,

and has not conducted its operations regardless of injury to adjoining pro-

perty, but solely as a saving of cost to its own district ? Surely legislation

is urgently needed; and unless all known sanitary science is ignored,

sewage irrigators should be compelled to act under recognized universal

sanitary laws.

The penalties which have been recommended have been only those

which would commend themselves to the minds of any impartial person to

protect the public against the misdirection of sewage-grounds. They are

so obviously important as to require no comment. From my experience of

Ithese local Boards of Health every statement is met with a flat denial, and
Ifshould not be surprised to hear the necessity for such legislative enact-
ments denied.       there are local Boards of Health, however, who deny the

premisses upon which the necessity for penalties is concluded, they need

not fear the consequences. The penalties would not apply to themselves,

and they would conduct their self -esteemed perfect processes without fear
Iof molestation. To those who assume that their operations are perfect
   would say, Help the public to make those who do not conduct their
operations properly change their bad course.

IThe great sewage irrigation farm of Croydon is near my experimental         its
garden, and have    therefore had the   fullest   opportunities of noticing  of
disgusting career.                     penalties    were enacted, the Board
                     If the proposed
Health would have fallen heavily under the lash. For instance

1. Sewage is carried in a parish away from their             50 a day.
       land without leave of the inhabitants : they
       would incur a penalty of                              10
                                                             50
2. They constantly irrigate within 200 yards of
       other property or highways                             10
                                                             20
3. Sewage is not defecated
                                                             25
4. Sewage often runs over the ground, and is
       not filtered through the ground                      100 ,

5. Sewage runs over other property
6. Great sewer artery is not covered near

       highway
7. Sewage is used for the growth of salad to an

        enormous extent
No. XXXVLc.]  APPENDIX.                                           413

 8. Cooking vegetables sold for human food         10 a day.
         within two months of irrigation (no
         information).                             10 ,
                                                   25
 9. Sale of vegetables for cattle less than one    10
         month after irrigation
                                                   10
10. Employment of vegetables for milch cows
         within six weeks of irrigation            20

11. Effluent water not protected
12. No good water supplied to sewage farm ..
13. No good water supplied where wells are

          poisoned

14. No list of zymotic diseases posted at door of
         Registrar's office

                                             Total .. 350 a day.

    IFor the purpose of observing how far the principles which are incul-

cated in this paper are carried out abroad, visited last week the sewage-
ground of Paris, which is situated in the district left by a bend of the
Seine, between Asnieres and St. Denis. About one-twelfth part of the

sewage of Paris was distributed over the ground. It was pumped by an

engine over a bridge of the Seine to a small reservoir, from which it flowed
in a channel, to be subdivided into lesser channels to be distributed over
the soil. The principal canal was, curiously enough, carried by the high
road to St. Denis, so that travellers were exposed to its pestilential emana-
tions, which had the most awful stench, and which, under the proposed
regulations, would have exposed the authorities to a fine of 10 a day.
The position of the ground itself is not approved by the neighbourhood,
for which a fine of 50 a day would have been incurred. No good water

was supplied to the irrigation-ground, which would have rendered the

authorities liable to a fine of 10 a day, nor was good water supplied to

parts where the wells were poisoned, for which they would have been liable

to a fine of 10 a day. The sewage was not defecated, which would have

rendered them liable to a fine of 50 a day.
Salad, as lettuce, endive, and it is stated celery, was grown upon the
Iplace, for which a fine of 100 a day would have been incurred.
                                                                  could

not ascertain that any precautions were taken to prevent cabbages and

other vegetables being used immediately after irrigation, though asparagus

was grown, which becomes most offensive when recently treated with
putrid sewage. There was no visible stream, so that the recommendatory
precautions against its improper use were not required, but the great

sewage artery was not covered, which would render them liable to a fine of
 25 a day. Upon the whole, it is difficult to imagine how the French

people could possibly violate the laws of health, of physiology, and of
physical science, as they have done in the conduct of their sewage; and

what may be the results, if twelve times the amount be conducted and

concentrated on one spot, may be difficult to be prognosticated. The state
of the case has been well set out in a petition to the Government from

the inhabitants of the neighbourhood. The petition was signed by 414
persons residing in the district, and was presented to the National

Assembly.
414                               APPENDIX.                               [Xo. XXXVI.c.

      " The petitioners do not deny that the irrigation as hitherto practised

lias conferred upon the sewage-grounds a fertility which they did not

formerly possess, and which has created some excellent kitchen gardens ;

but they beg to observe that the irrigation-grounds have been selected

amongst those best adapted for the purpose. The irrigation-grounds on

the 1st October, 1874, only comprised 113 hectares, and even then they have

only  been   subjected to         the application of 50,000 cubic metres  per annum.
      " The   petitioners         are, therefore, not astonished to find  that amongst

the cultivators of Gennevilliers there are some who are satisfied with, the

irrigation and ask for the continuation, and even for the extension, of it.
However, the petitioners do not believe that their approval will be con-

tinued, for can the grounds continue for ever, and without rest, to imbibe
50,000 metres for each hectare for eveiy year putrescent waters which

deposit on the surface their offensive and putrid mud, and permeate the
                                  loaded with organic matters and deleterious
grou"ndThweitphetaitiloiqnueirds  question the future because the absorption   gas ?
                                                                               of 50,000

metres per hectare is impossible, and is recognized as being exorbitant, as
was proved by experience in Lombardy and in England, and so far im-
perfectly at Gennevilliers, that a great number of cultivators have declared
that they would not use a mode of irrigation which they consider as incon-

venient, unhealthy, and prejudicial to their cultivation.
      " The sewage after having penetrated the superficial layers of the soil

is but incompletely purified, and does not return to the river, as is wrong-
fully asserted in the report of the technical commission to the Minister of
Public Works. The sewage water joins the subsoil water which percolates
from the Seine, and is added to it, so that since 1872 the level has been
raised two metres. In this case the subsoil water has overflowed the wells

and corrupted the water. They have overflowed the cellars, which they

have rendered wet and unhealthy; they have filled the vaults and the

quarries where they are exposed to view, and exhale the noxious effluvia,
and the marsh fever heretofore unknown in this country has taken pos-

session of it.  .                 are already manifested  by an irrigation     which has

    " If such   results

only had an existence of three years, and which is limited in extent to

113 hectares, what would the result be if that irrigation were extended to

2000 hectares, with an amount of sewage amounting to 100,000,000 of

cubic metres per annum ?
      " The irrigation-grounds would become an immense marsh, from which

the pestilential emanations would evaporate, and not only affect Genne-
villiers, Asnieres, Colombes, and the other districts around, but would

penetrate to Paris itself."
      The land upon which the irrigation is carried on is naturally barren,

and a contrary petition was presented by some cultivators who benefited

by the practice.

     It is proper to notice that on a visit to the engineer, he distinctly

stated to me that he did not subscribe to the notion that the level of the

subsoil water had been raised two metres, but it appears to me that if the
sewage flows on to the land more rapidly than it can penetrate through it,

then the level of the subsoil must be raised.
      The creation of so large a pestilential swamp must be a source of

serious injury, and, according to all known science, may in the future lead
No. XXXVI.C.J            APPENDIX.                                415

to the fructification and distribution of some serious epidemic. Sewage
nuisances may exist for years without generating typhoid fever and
cholera, but where the diseases exist they intensify their power to the de-
struction of the neighbouring people. At Paris the amount of vegetation

is increased by the sewage being used over a deep bed of sand, and so the
cultivators are anxious for the profit ; but the use of such vegetation after
recent irrigation, with the prevalence of the typhoid which now exists in
Paris, may well make all persons fear who value wholesome food as a

preservative of health.

The whole tenor of these observations is to assimilate sewage-grounds
Ifand sewage produce to the ordinary state of cultivated land and agricul-
tural produce.      any of these precautions are omitted, then secondary

protections would be required for example, against tapeworm and
diseased meat. There are strong reasons in the past for requiring, under

very heavy penalties, that the buyers of sewage-fed cattle should have their

names registered in a book open to the inspection of the public.

Under the system of penalties, which is the very minimum adequate

to preserve  the public  health, the Board of Health  of Croydon would some-
times have   incurred a                               this scale of penalties is
                         payment of 350 a day. If

not found sufficient to restrain the above described reckless career of those

who conduct the sewage farms of this country, then the Legislature might

make the penalties personal upon the members of the Boards of Health.

It is not to be tolerated that those appointed to protect the health of one

district should be permitted to impair the health of the neighbouring

district. The effect of sewage-grounds, as hitherto conducted, has been as

bad morally on the minds of the people as it has been physically on their

bodies. Largely exaggerated statements have been made by their sup-

porters. Facts are suppressed, or not fairly given. General denials are
made to all complaints. The most insolent observations are made to those

who point out their dangers. Knowledge is arrogantly assumed where
ignorance abounds ; the promotion of sewage-grounds is made a source of
revenue at the public damage. Being an independent observer of the mad

Icareer which the conductors of the fcewage-ground are following, have

placed this paper before the Society to indicate the scientific principles
which should guide their safe conduct, and also to serve as a public protest
against sewage-grounds as now conducted, that should, in the future, some
terrible calamity occur from their abuse, blame may rest upon the heads of
those who recklessly abjure all known sanitary science.

The discussion that ensued was adjourned, and at a subsequent meet-
ing (Jan. 19th, 1876) Mr. Smee said his paper was intended to be a
belligerent one, in order to evoke discussion. He was not an enemy to
sewage irrigation, and the whole point of his paper was to show that
sewage farms must and ought to be properly and fairly conducted. Refer-
ring to the letter received from Mr. Hope, he said he considered it ought
to be printed in letters of gold, for in that letter the greater part of the
                    were dealt with in a practical,  philosophical, and almost
sewage   questions   Time was the very essence
perfect   manner.                                    of the thing, because if
animal matter were taken into the stalk of a plant it required a certain
time before it was assimilated, and that point was now conceded by those
who knew anything of the subject. Mr. Hope had not mentioned whether
APPENDIX.                                             [No. XXXVI.o.

he would defecate it ; but if lie would, lie sliould consider the labour
bestowed upon the preparation of the paper had been well spent. Next,

General Scott stated that all the evidence given before the Parliamentary
Committee showed that sewage must be defecated before it was put upon
the land ; and if that principle were admitted, the sewage question was

almost settled. That was why he thought there ought to be a penalty on

its non-adoption. Of course there was the difficulty and expense, which
often stood in the way ; and he had no doubt that if Mr. Latham could have

his own way, and were not hampered by the penny -wise and pound-foolish
principle, which he had himself condemned, he would soon have things in

proper shape. It has been said that he (Mr. Smee) had given no principles

on which the question should be dealt with ; but the fact was, it depended

on the principles of heat, cold, moisture, dryness, vegetable and animal
physiology, in short, on all the principles of nature. As to the fines of 350
a day being too heavy, that was but a small sum compared to the penalty
of 10,000 to which they were liable for a breach of the injunction
granted by the Court of Chancery against allowing any of the sewage to
now into the river Wandle to the injury of neighbouring owners, and

three such injunctions were granted against the Croydon Local Board.

There was a specimen on the table of a trout, one of a cartload which had

been killed by the poisonous matter turned into the stream, and which he

had assisted the Local Board authorities to trace to the gas-works, and
showed them how to get rid of it. This showed he had no ill-feeling

against them when they were willing to act properly. It has been asked,
why were they not prosecuted ? Perhaps it was not known how near they

had been to prosecution several times. He was not a public prosecutor, or
they would have been in his clutches long ago. With regard to the denial
of the statement that there had been an epidemic of typhoid fever, he

must say he never heard a more astounding statement. He held in his

hand the printed report stating the mortality, and no reference, even in a
note, to the fact of the epidemic, although it must have been known before
it was issued. An eminent medical man wrote as follows : " In February
Ithree cases of typhoid appeared in the district. Two of these cases were

imported, and was aware of their presence. By the end of April
more than 200 cases were known to have occurred."
" Alfred Carpenter, M.D.," and by the end of June he   That was signed
                                                      reported 34 killed
and 400 arrested. Then it was said that for ten years up to that time

Croydon had been perfectly free from typhoid fever, but this he (Mr. Smee)
could show not to be the case by reference to the returns. With regard
to the penalty he suggested for not making proper returns of the cause

of death, he considered that absolutely necessary for the security of the

people. On one occasion, having reason to believe that cases of fever had
occurred, he inquired of the undertaker where the deaths were registered,

and found it was at Sutton; but on sending to obtain the information he
was told he would have to pay a fee of 2s. 6d. for every certificate, and
thus it would have cost him 40 to get the information he wanted. That
showed that the system required alteration. A gentleman then present
told him that a friend of his came from Australia, and looking upon
Croydon as a healthy place took lodgings there, took the fevei% and was
now in his grave. With regard to the sewage being diluted, he referred
to the enormous quantity of water involved, which no one but an engineer
No. XXXVT.r.J     APPENDIX.                                           417

would have any idea of. One million gallons represented a height of 1,340
feet on an acre, or upwards of 4,000 feet for three millions, and dividing
that over 400 acres it represented 120 inches per annum, which was so
excessive that it must convert the land into a swamp. None of the Local

Boards could see it in that light, but the birds soon found it out, as was

proved by the quantity of snipe which visited it in the winter. If further

proof were needed, he might mention that on the previous Saturday some
thirty or more boys and girls were skating and sliding on the piece of
ground where it was said the water was drained away in the most satis-
factory manner. Again, it was said there was no putrid sewage at Croydon ;
but every medical man knew that the poison of typhoid fever was far
more effective in its fresh state, and he stated that the sewage passed
over the land within ten hours, so that in less than a day the faecal matter
was in full bloom on the watercresses, tons and tons of which were grown
and sent to London. On the table were two vessels filled, one with water-

cresses, and the other with grass, over which filthy sewage had been
poured, and it would be seen that the water which flowed through was

tolerably clear, showing that the feculent matter was arrested by tho
leaves and stalks of the vegetation, which was eaten, in one case by human
beings, and in the other by animals. Then it was said that no one had
suffered from the sewage farm, but extracts from the register would
show the cause of death in the instances referred to. (See p. 385.) He
had also obtained from Dr. Fair, at Somerset House, the following
figures as to the deaths at Carshalton, and it was there you must look for
the effects, not in Croydon itself :

                  Deaths at Carshalton.

                   Deaths.                Scarlet  Fever.         Whooping
                                          Fover.                    Cough.
                       71                                              4
                  . 60      ... .... 11 ... ...                .
                                                                         1
December                    .             8.       1

                  Croiidon Sub-district.                          Zymotii-.
                                                                     60
June, 1875                                369                        69
                                          359
September, 1875

      Mr. had reproduced statistics which he had shown to be
fallacious on more than one occasion already, and in order that the matter
might be properly understood he had obtained from an eminent actuary
the following tables, the meaning of which would be explained by the

correspondence :  " 7, Fmsbury Circus, .London, J**.O.,
                                January 3rd, 1876.

" MY DEAR SIR, It is a matter of public interest to know the rate of
mortality which may be expected per thousand in the town of Croydon,
       during the past year a great epidemic by typhoid fever     has raged.
where     adequate materials exist for the calculation of an      authoritative

    If"
Istatement of the numbers at each age and of both

greatly obliged if you would calculate the expected

appears to me that they should be calculated on
                                                     sexes, should            be
                                                   number for me.            the

                                                    the results of

                                                                  2E
418                                         APPENDIX.                     [No. XXXVLc.

mortality of Surrey, that is to say, of the population of Extra-Metro-
Ipolitan Surrey, which from its large amount will give satisfactory results ;

and further think that we should make the comparative calculations for
the same year that the ages were determined, as the only method which
can g"ivAereretlhiaebrelererelisaubltlse. data upon which similar calculations may be made
with regard to Beddington parish, as it is of much public importance that
a minute calculation should be made to compare the expected with the

real results ?             I"

                                  have  the  honour    to   be, my  dear  Sir,
                                                         "   Yours  very  faithfully,

" F. A. CURTIS, Esq., F.I.A., Actuary to the                        "ALFRED SMEE.

     Gresham Life Assurance Society."

     " MY DEAR SIR,               Adequate     " The Gresham Life Assurance Society,
                                                             37, Old Jewry, E.G.

                                                        London, January 14th, 1876.
                                             materials exist in the Census Report for

1871, and in the Registrar- General's Annual Report for the same year, to

calculate the mortality which might be expected amongst the population

of Croydon based on the mortality which occurred amongst the population

Iof Extra-Metropolitan Surrey.
      " have the pleasure to enclose the result of the calculations, made
for every year up to five years of age, for every five years up to twenty-five

years of age, and subsequently for every ten years of age ; but as the

Ipopulation of Croydon is included in the population returns of the Census

with reference to Extra-Metropolitan Surrey, have deemed it necessary
for the purpose of a rigorous comparison to subtract from the population
of Extra-Metropolitan Surrey the numbers of persons living and dying in
the district of Croydon, by which it is shown that 56 more deaths at all

Iages occurred at Croydon in 1871 than might be expected from the
mortality of Extra-Metropolitan Surrey.                     have also calculated the mean

mortality per thousand; the results will be seen in the accompanying

table"s.It is to be remarked that the mortality of the first years of infancy
   gre" atlayminnoetxcaewssaraet                       in the Surrey district.
Iis                               Croydon   over that  exist for estimating the        mortality
                                  that any  materials

in Beddington parish, as the Census reports do not distinguish the popula-

tion of that locality from the population of Extra-Metropolitan Surrey, and

the  d"eIatthiss  are not  given separately  by the Registrar- General.
                  proper   to observe that    as the deaths in Croydon
                                                                                       town  are
conjoined with those of surrounding districts, it is probable that, if the
returns of its suburban districts were subtracted from the returns under

the head of ' Croydon,' so as to reduce the figures to those of the town

proper, the deaths in Croydon would appear in still greater excess.
No. XXXVLc.]                           APPENDIX.                                419

" Comparative Mortality of Croydon and Extra- Metropolitan Surrey
                                 (with and without Croydon).

                                                          MALES.

                       Croydon Deaths.             Actual Deaths per 1000.

                       Estimated on Surrey                             Surrey.
                               Mortality.
 Ages.        Actual.                              Croydon.
                         With           Without                With    Without
  1            231                      Croydon.   188-0               Croydoo.
  2              52    Croydon.                      48-2    Croydon.
  3              14                       184        11-9              149-7
  4              15      195                42       14-0    158-6       38-7
  59             15        44               22       14-0      40-9      19-1
                 26        20               13        5-3      17-3      11-9
1014             13        13               12         3-1     12-4      11-4
1524             39         13              31        6-4      12-0       6-2
2534             56        30                18       9-8       6-0       4-2
3544             60         17              37       13-8       3-9        6-1
4554             51        37               61       16-5        6-1     10-6
5564              61        60               65      33-4      10-5      15-0
6574             50        64                57      48-8      14-8      18-6
7584              56        56               59    151-8       18-1      32-2
8594              13       59                61    282-6       32-4      59-5
                            59              56                 57-5
95                         56                14      20-2    151-9     152-0
                            13
                                                             292-0     294"-1
              752 736 732
                                                               19-6      19-5

                                        FEMALES.

                       Croydon Deaths.             Actual Deaths per 1000.

                       Estimated on Surrey                             Surrey.
                               Mortality.
  Ages.       Actual.                              Croydon.
                             With       Without                With    Without
  1            202         Croydon.     Croydon.   163-3               Croydon.
  2             45                                   40-8    Croydon.
  3              22           148         131        18-9              105-5
  4              21            38           36       18-7    119-3       32-3
  59             20            20           20       18-9      34-3      16-9
                 26             13           11       5-2      17-4       9-4
1014             24             13           11        5-2     11*6      10-1
15-24            42             31          32         4-3     12-1        6-5
2534             51            20            19        6-4      6-2        4-1
3544             38            46           48         6-9      4-4        4-9
4554             41             55           56      11-3       4-7        7-1
5564             78                          64      32-1       6-9      11-6
6574             65    I 57                 54       46-4      10-4      14-9
7584             63             51          58      127-3      14-1      23-8
8594             23             62           81    359-4       25-7      57-6
                               77            71                55-1     143-0
95             761              69           23       16-3   139-7     364-6
                                23                           366-3     714-3
                                                1            625-0
                                    1                                    16-4
                                                               16-4
                       721 716
420                                  APPENDIX.                               [No. XXXVJ.C

                                 MALES AND FEMALES.

                      Croydon Deaths.                         Actual Deaths per 1OuO.

                      Estimated on Surrey                                       Surrey.
                              Mortality.
     Ages.  Actual.                                  Croydon.

  1            433      With           Without       175-6                 With                                              Without
                  97  Croydon.         Croydon.        44-4              Croydon.                                            Croydon.
  2              36                                    15-4
                  36      343              315         16-4              139 1                                               127-7
  3               35         82               78       16-4                37 6                                                35-5
  4               52         41               42         5-2               17-4                                                18-0
                  87        26               23         4-2                12-0                                                10-6
  59              81         26               23         5-1               12-1                                                10-7
                             61               64         7-8                 6-1                                                6-4
1014            107          36              36         10                   4-1                                                 4-1
1524              98         86               87       13-7                                                                     5-5
2534              92                                   32-7                 5-4                                                  8-8
35-44                      117              120        47-4                  8-6                                               13-3
4554            139        123              131      137-7                 12-5                                                16-7
                115        107              112                            16-0                                                27-9
55 4            119        123              119      327-3                 28-9                                                58-5
                           136              142                            56-2                                              147-1
6574              36       125              127        18-0              145-2
7584                                                                     333-3                                               334-7
8594        1,513           37                37                         777-8                                               875-0
                                                  1
95                               1                                         18-0                                                17-9

                      1,470 ! 1,457

            Comparison of Deaths from various causes in Croydon, and in
                    Extra- Metropolitan Surrey (excluding Croydon).

            CAUSES OF DEATH.           1 ?*\iActual Deaths.                                                                    Difference of
                                          I                                                                                  Cro3'Jon Actual
                                                  I*
                                                 Hi                                                                                  r,a !>-on
                                             ow                                                                                  Estimated
                                                                                          Estimated Deaths for Croydon&$
                                                                                              based on Extra-Metropolitan           Deaths.

                                                                                                   Surrey, excluding Croydon.      -

                                                                                      +1

     Small-pox                         184           581       103        31                                                 50     129 3 '4 5
     Measles                             83           27         56        17                                                10
     Scarlet fever            ,                       41 545               53327 4 8 4                                       28     19
     Diphtheria                        220            41       179         10                                                       34
                                         3747          30        323 97    13    i 5 'i 3                                    22       '2
     Typhus fever                        86                      45
     Enteric or typlioid fever           13            124       13       27                                                 ..
     Simple continued fever                                      89
     Erysipelas                        119             88        28        131
     Metria or puerperal fever          33           159         42
     Childbirth                          46          219         13        66                                                         91
     Influenza                           18                      22
     Dysentery                          34             36                178
     Diarrhoea                                         48      223       220
     Cholera                             13
     Phthisis or consumption           311                     598         45
     Diseases of respiratory organs                            737
                                       757                     150         82
                                       956                                                                                       j
                                       186                     275

                                       323
No. XXXVI.C.]                      APPENDIX.                           421

" The population in the district of Croydon is very nearly three-tenths
of the population of Extra-Metropolitan Surrey, exclusive of that of
Croydon. Therefore, the deaths returned in Extra-Metropolitan Surrey,
after deducting the deaths returned for the Croydon district, would be the
basis for the estimates of death that should occur in the population of
ICroydon, upon the assumption of an equal rate of mortality.
a nosological table of mortality.                                   subjoin

                " Believe me to be, my dear Sir, yours faithfully,
                                                          " F. A. CUKTIS.
"ALFRED         SMEE, Esq., F.B.S.,
          " 7,  Finsbury Circus, E.C."

When Mr.           spoke of the Female Orphan Asylum, he conveyed

the idea that no injury had been caused to its inmates, but the fact was,

they had had sixty cases of fever and three deaths ; and though he could
not say these were caused by the milk, 'because he had not investigated
the cases, it was a curious fact that the more milk the patients drank
the worse they became, and on one occasion a tadpole was found in it. A
specimen of hay had been produced, but he had no hesitation in saying
that it was not a fair sample, because on passing his fingers over it he
found no sewage excreta adhering to it, as he had done when he had taken
a sample from the stack himself. With regard to the roots, he acknow-
ledged that if the ground were properly turned over, roots might be found

fit for use, though not so good as those treated in the ordinary way. He
had seen the sewage overflow into Beddington Park, even since he read

the paper, and had got the park-keeper to measure the distance, 19 poles ;

in fact, a deep drain was now being made to prevent it. No one had really

opposed his pi-oposals except Mr. Addy, who said that if they were adopted
sewage farms could not be carried on; but if they could not, without

encroaching on their neighbours' rights, the sooner they were stopped, in
his opinion, the better. He said it would be very inconvenient ; and in the
same way some people thought it inconvenient that they were not per-

mitted to pick other persons' pockets. He had as much right to be pro-

tected against injury from sewage as against petty theft, which was of

much less real importance; and, no doubt, he could protect himself by
Chancery proceedings, but they were difficult and expensive. Mr. Botly

spoke of the violets grown at Aldershot ; he could only say that if they

were grown under sewage irrigation, the officers must have presented
to their ladies much which they never bargained for ; but the mystery was
cleared up by a succeeding speaker, who said that the sewage went on the
Iffarm two days a week, and the remaining five through a pipe direct into
the watei-course.  that statement were confirmed, the sooner all such

farms were put under stringent regulations and regular inspection the

better. The following table would show the difference between the pure
water from the Croydon wells and the effluent sewage from the farms :

                                           Croydon Well.  2*00
                                                          0*018
                   Common salt                            0*003
                   Nitrogen oxide                         O'OOi
                   Ammonia
                   Organic matter
422                    APPENDIX.                               [No. XXXVI.c.

     Effluent Sewage every quarter of an hour.

     Salt                         3-400

     Nitrogen                     0'419

     Ammonia                      0-032

     Organic matter               0-144

        Sewage towns,  Norwood and Beddington.

     Minimum                             Organic carbon
     Maximum                              and nitrogen.
     Average
                                            0*114 per gallon.
                                            1-786
                                            0-821

The Royal Commissioners said, " "We unhesitatingly condemn the whole of
them as dangerous and totally unfit for drinking." Average Thames
water was much better than this, only containing an average of -021
organic carbon and nitrogen,, whilst rain-water contained "084. The
effluent system at Croydon was an abomination ; the effluents were very
difficult to trace, but he had reason to believe that not being protected by

notice-boards persons might drink of the water unwittingly. In conclu-

sion, he hoped the discussion, which had been taken up with such earnest-
ness by so many leading engineers, and which would be read very widely,
would not be wasted, but that before long the sewage question would be
settled in a more satisfactory way than it was at present, especially at

Croydon.

     LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SON'S, STAMFORD Sllil.l.f

                                                  AND CHARING C'KOSS.
                     University of California
   SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY
405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024-1388

            Return this material to the library
                from which it was borrowed.

 QL JAN 21
  FEB2519W
000 040 081

