Erasmus Darwin. By Ernst Krause. Tr. from the German by W. S.
Dallas. With a preliminary notice by Charles Darwin.

Krause, Ernst, 1839-1903.
London, J. Murray, 1879.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nyp.33433082333513

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
                                    1

        ERASMUS DARWIN.

FROM A PICTURE BY WRIGHT OF DERBY.
EEASMUS DAEWIN.

                By EENST KRAUSE.

                 TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY W. S. DALLAS.

   wIth a preliminary notice

          By CHARLES DARWIN.

                       PORTRAIT AND WOODCUTS.

                        LONDON:
   JOHN MUEEAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                        f1879. .
                             LONDON :
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,

         STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROS8.
                PREFACE.

In the February number, 1879, of a well-

known German scientific journal, ' Kosmos,'

Dr. Ernst Krause published a sketch of the life
of Erasmus Darwin, the author of the ' Zoo-

nomia,' ' Botanic Garden,' and other works.

This article bears the title of a ' Contribution

to the history  of  the  Descent-Theory    '  and
                                         ;

Dr. Krause has kindly allowed my brother

Erasmus and myself to have a translation

made of it for publication in this country.*

  IAs have private materials for adding to

the knowledge of Erasmus Darwin's character,

I have written a preliminary notice. These

materials consist of a large collection of letters

written by him; of his common-place book

in folio, in the possession of his grandson

Reginald Darwin ; of some notes made shortly

   * Mr. Dallas has undertaken the translation, and his scientific
reputation, together with his knowledge of German, is a
guarantee for its accuracy.
iv PREFACE.

after his death, by my father, Dr. Robert

Darwin, together with what little I can

clearly remember that my father said about
him ; also some statements by his daughter,
Violetta Darwin, afterwards Mrs. Tertius
Gralton, written down at the time by her
daughters ; and various short published notices.
To these must be added the ' Memoirs of the
Life of Dr. Darwin,' by Miss Seward, which
appeared in 1804; and a lecture by Dr. Dowson
on " Erasmus Darwin, Philosopher, Poet,
and Physician," published in 1861, which
contains many useful references and remarks.*

   * Since the publication of Dr. Krause's article, Mr. Butler's
work, ' Evolution, Old and New, 1879/ has appeared, and this
includes an account of Dr. Darwin's life, compiled from the two
books just mentioned, and of his views on evolution.
       PRELIMINARY NOTICE.

Erasmus Darwin was descended from a

Lincolnshire family, and the first of his

ancestors of whom we know anything was

William Darwin, who possessed a small estate
at Cleatham * He was also yeoman of the

armoury of Greenwich to James I. and
Charles I. This office was probably almost a

sinecure, and certainly of very small value.

He died in 1644, and we have reason to

believe from gout. It
                 ;                    therefore, probable

                          it

                                 is,
that Erasmus, as well as many other members

of the family, inherited from this William, or

some of his predecessors, their strong ten

dency to gout and was an early attack

of gout which made Erasmus a vehement

advocate for temperance throughout his whole

life.

*  The greater part of the estate of Cleatham was sold in 1760.

A cottage with thick walls, some fish-ponds and old trees, alone
                                 once stood. A
sthheow"  where the "Old Hall"                     field still called
          Darwin Charity," from  being subject to     charge, made by
                                                   a

                                                           is

the second Mrs. Darwin, for buying gowns for four old widows

every year.  '-

                                                   B
2 LIFE OF

   The second William Darwin (born 1620)
served as Captain-Lieutenant in Sir W.

Pel ham's troop of horse, and fought for the
king. His estate was sequestrated by the

Parliament, but he was afterwards pardoned

on payment of a heavy fine. In a petition

to Charles II. he speaks of his almost utter

ruin from having adhered to the royal cause,

and it appears that he had become a barrister.

This circumstance probably led to his marry
ing the daughter of Erasmus Earle, Serjeant-

at-law; and hence Erasmus Darwin derived

his Christian name.

   The eldest son from this marriage, William
(born 1655), married the heiress of Robert
Waring, of Wilsford, in the county of Not

tingham. This lady also inherited the manor

of Elston, which has remained ever since in

the family.
   This third William Darwin had two sons

--William, and Robert who was educated

as a barrister, and who was the father of
IErasmus.
           suppose that the Cleatham and

the Waring properties were left to William,

who seems to have followed no profession,

and the Elston estate to Robert ; for when
4 LIFE OF                                             \

the latter married, he gave up his profession
and lived ever afterwards at Elston. There is
a portrait of him at Elston Hall, and he looks,
with his great wig and bands, like a dignified
doctor of divinity. He seems to have had some
taste for science, for he was an early member
of the well-known Spalding Club ; and the

celebrated antiquary, Dr. Stukeley, in ' An

account of the almost entire Sceleton of a large
animal,' &c., published in the 'Philosophical

Transactions,' April and May 1719, begins
his paper as follows :--" Having an account
" from my friend, Robert Darwin, Esq., of
" Lincoln's Inn, a Person of Curiosity, of a
" human Sceleton impressed in Stone, found
" lately by the Rector of Elston," &c. Stukeley
then speaks of it as a great rarity, " the like
" whereof has not been observed before in this
" island, to ,my knowledge," Judging from

a sort of litany written by Robert, and handed
down in the family, he was a strong advocate
of temperance, which his son ever afterwards

so strongly advocated :--

                    From a morning that doth shine,
                    From a boy that drinketh wine,
                    From a wife that talketh Latine,

                         Good Lord deliver me.
ERASMUS DARWIN".  5

   It is suspected that the third line may be

accounted for by his wife, the mother of
Erasmus, having been a very learned lady.

   The eldest son of Robert, christened Robert

Waring, succeeded to the estate of Elston, and

died there at the age of ninety -two, a bachelor.
He had a strong taste for poetry, like his
youngest brother Erasmus. Robert also culti

vated botany, and when an oldish man, he
published his ' Principia Botanica.' This
book in MS. was beautifully written, and my
father declared that he believed it was pub
lished because his old uncle could not endure

that such fine calligraphy should be wasted.
But this was hardly just, as the work con

tains many curious notes on biology --a sub

ject wholly neglected in England in the last
century. The public, moreover, appreciated
the book, as the copy in my possession is the
third edition.

   Of the second son, William Alvey, I know

nothing. A third son, John, became the rector

of Elston, the living being in the gift of the
family. The fourth son, and the youngest
of the children, was Erasmus, the subject of

the present memoir, who was born on the

12th Dec. 1731, at Elston Hall.
6 LIFE OF

   His elder brother, Eobert, states, in a letter

to my father (May 19, 1802), that Erasmus
" was always fond of poetry. He was also
I" always fond of mechanicks.
                                   remember
" him when very young making an ingenious
"
"  alarum for his watch (clock ?)  ; he used also
   to show little experiments
                                   in electricity
" with a rude apparatus he then invented
" with a bottle." The same tastes, therefore,

appeared very early in life which prevailed
to the day of his death. " He had always a
" dislike to much exercise and rural 1 diver-

" sions, and it was with great difficulty that
" we could ever persuade him to accompany
" us."

   When ten years old (1741), he was sent to

Chesterfield School, where he remained for

nine years. His1 sister, Susannah, wrote to

Ihim at school in 1748, and give part of the

letter as a curiosity. She was then a young

lady between eighteen and nineteen years

old. She died unmarried, and her nephew,

Dr. Eobert Darwin (my father), who was

deeply attached to her, always spoke of her

as the very pattern of an old lady, so nice

looking, so gentle, kind, and charitable, and

passionately fond of flowers. The first part
ERASMUS DARWIN.  7

of her letter consists of gossip and family
news, and is not worth giving.

         Susannah Darwin to Erasmus.

Deae Brother,

    I come now to ye chief design of my Letter, and

that is to acquaint you with my Abstinence this Lent,
which you will find on ye other side, it being a strict

Iaccount of ye first 5 days, and all ye rest has been

conformable thereto ; shall be glad to hear from
you wth an account of your temperance this lent,

Iwch expect far exceeds mine. As soon as we kill
Iour hog intend to take part thereof with ye Family,

for I'm informed by a learned Divine yl Hogs Flesh
is Fish, and has been so ever since ye Devil entered

into ym and they ran into ye Sea ; if you and the rest

of the Casuists in your neighbourhood are of ye
same oppinion, it will be a greater satisfaction to

Ime, in resolving so knotty a point of Conscience.

This being all at present conclude with all our
dues to you and Bror.

                              Your affectionate sister,
                                                     S. Darwin.

              A Diary in Lent.

                                                    Elston, Feb. 20, 1748.

           Feb17 8 Wednesday Morning a little before

Iseven got up ; said my Prayers ; worked till eight ;
8 LIFE OF

yn took a walk, came in again and eate a farthing
Loaf, yn dress'd me, red a Chapter in ye Bible, and

spun till One, yn dined temperately viz : on Puddin,
Bread and Cheese ; spun again till Fore, took a walk,
yn spun till half an hour past Five ; eat an Apple,
Chattered round ye Fire ; and at Seven a little boyl'd
Milk ; and yn (takeing my leave of Cards ye night
before) spun till nine ; drank a Glass of Wine for ye

Stomack sake ; and at Ten retired into my Chamber
to Prayers ; drew up my Clock and set my Larum
betwixt Six and Seven.

   Thursday call'd up to Prayers, by my Larum ;

spun till Eight, collected ye Hens' Eggs ; breakfasted
on Oat Cake, and Balm Tea ; yn dress'd and spun till

One, Pease Porrage, Pottatoes and Apple Pye ; yn
turned over a few pages in Scribelerus ; eat an Apple

and got to my work ; at Seven got Apple Pye and
Milk, half an hour after eight red in ye Tatlar and

at Ten withdrew to Prayers ; slept sound ; rose
before Seven j eat a Pear ; breakfast a quarter past
Eight ; fed ye Cats, went to Church ; at One Pease
Porrage, Puddin, Bread and Cheese ; Fore Mrs. Chap-
pells came, Five drank Tea ; Six eat half an Apple ;

Seven a Porrenge of Boyl'd Milk ; red in ye Tatlar ;
at Eight a Glass of Punch ; filled up ye vacancies of

ye day with work as before.
   Saturday Clock being too slow lay rather longar

yn usal ; said my Prayers ; and breakfasted at
Eight ; at One broth, Pudding, Brocoli and Eggs, and
ERASMUS DARWIN*.  9

Apple Pye ; at Five an Apple ; seven Apple Pye,
Bread and Butter ; at Nine a Glass of Wine ; at Ten

Prayers.

   Sunday breakfast at Eight ; at Ten went to ye
Chappell; 12 Dumplin, red Herring, Bread and
Cheese ; two to ye Church ; read a Lent Sermon at
Six ; and at Seven Appel Pye Bread and Cheese.

    Excuse hast, being very cold.

Erasmus, ^etat. 16, to Susannah Darwin.

Dear Sister,

      I receiv'd yours about a fortnight after ye date
Iyl must begg to be excused for not answering it
Isooner : besides have some substantial Beasons, as
Ihaving a mind to see Lent almost expired, before

would vouch for my Abstinence throughout ye
whole : and not having had a convenient oppertunity

Ito consult a Synod of my learned friends about your

ingenious Conscience, and must inform you we
unanimously agree in ye Opinion of ye Learned
Divine you mention, that Swine may indeed be fish
but then they are a devillish sort of fish ; and we can
prove from ye same Authority that all fish is flesh

Iwhence we affirm Porck not only to be flesh but a

devillish Sort of flesh ; and would advise you for

I IConscience sake altogether to abstain from tasting it ;

as can assure You have done, tho' roast Pork has
come to Table several Times ; and for my own part
10 LIFE OF

have lived upon Puding, milk, and vegetables all this

I ILent ; but don't mistake me, don't mean have

not touch'd roast beef, mutton, veal, goose, fowl, &c.

Ifor what are all these ? All flesh is grass ! Was

to give you a journal of a Week, it would be stuft so
full of Greek and Latin as translation Verses, themes,
annotation Exercise and ye like, it would not only be
very tedious and insipid but perfectly unintelligible

Ito any but Scholboys.
       fancy you forgot in Yours to inform me y*

Iyour Cheek was quite settled by your Temperance,

but however can easily suppose it. For y6 tempe
rate enjoy an ever-blooming Health free from all ye
Infections and disorders luxurious mortals are subject
to, the whimsical Tribe of Phisitians cheated of their
fees may sit down in penury and Want, they may

curse mankind and imprecate the Gods and call down
y* parent of all Deseases, luxury, to infest Mankind,
luxury more distructive than ye Sharpest Famine ;
tho' all the Distempers that ever Satan inflicted upon

Job hover over ye intemperate ; they would play

harmless round our Heads, nor dare to touch a single

Hair. We should not meet those pale thin and

haggard countenances which every day present them

selves to us. No doubt men would still live their

Hunderd, and Methusalem would lose his Character ;

fever banished from our Streets, limping Gout would
fly ye land, and Sedentary Stone would vanish into
oblivion and death himself be slain.
ERASMUS DARWIN'.  11

  I could for ever rail against Luxury, and for ever
Ipanegyrize upon abstinence, had not already en-

croach'd too far upon your Patience, but it being Lent

Ithe exercise of y* Christian virtue may not be amiss,

so shall proceed a little furder --

[The remainder of the letter is hardly legible
or intelligible, with no signature.]

   P.S. --Excuse Hast, supper being called, very
Hungry.

   Judging from two letters -- the first written
in 1749, to one of the under-masters during

the holidays, and the other to the head
master, shortly after he went to Cambridge,

in 1750 -- he seems to have felt a degree
of respect, gratitude, and affection for the
several masters unusual in a schoolboy. Both
these letters were accompanied by an inevit
able copy of verses, those addressed to the
head-master being of considerable length, and
in imitation of the 5th Satire of Persius.
His two elder brothers accompanied him to
St. John's College, Cambridge ; and this

seems to have been a severe strain on their
father's income. They appear, in consequence,
to have been thrifty and honourably economi
12 LIFE OF

cal ; so much so that they mended their own
clothes ; and, many years afterwards, Erasmus

boasted to his second wife that, if she cut the

heel out of a stocking, he would put a new one
in without missing a stitch. He won the
Exeter Scholarship at St. John's, which was
worth only £16 per annum. No doubt he
studied the classics whilst at Cambridge,
for he did so to the end of his life, as shown
by the many quotations in his latest work,
1 The Temple of Nature.' He must also have
studied mathematics to a certain extent, for,
when he took his Bachelor of Arts degree, in
1754, he was at the head of the Junior Optimes.
Nor did he neglect medicine ; and he left
Cambridge during one term to attend Hunter's
lectures in London. As a matter of course,
he wrote poetry whilst at Cambridge, and a
poem on ' The Death of Prince Frederick,' in
1751, was published many years afterwards, in
1795, in the European Magazine.

   In the autumn of 1754 he went to Edin

burgh to study medicine, and while there,

seems to have been as rigidly economical as at
Cambridge ; for amongst his papers there is a

receipt for his board from July 13th to October
       ERASMUS DARWIN.                     13

13 th, amounting to only £6 12s. Mr. Keir,

afterwards a distinguished chemist, was at

Edinburgh with him, and after his death wrote
       father (May 12th, 1802) : " The
to my                                     classical
" and  literary attainments which he      had ac-

"  quired at Cambridge gave     him,  when he
   came to Edinburgh, together  with  his poeti-
"

" cal talents and ready wit, a distinguished
" superiority among the students there.
" Every one of the above-mentioned Pro-
"
"  fessors [whose lectures he attended],  except-

   ing Dr. Whytt, had been a pupil        of the
" celebrated Boerhaave, whose doctrines were
" implicitly adopted. It would be curious to
"
"  know (but he alone could have told us)  the
   progress of your father's mind from     the
" narrow Boerhaavian system, in which man
" was considered as an hydraulic machine
" whose pipes were filled with fluid suscep-
" tible of chemical fermentations, while the
" pipes themselves were liable to stoppages
"
"  or obstructions (to which   obstructions and
   fermentations all diseases   were imputed),
" to the more enlarged consideration of man
" as a living being, which affects the phenomena
" of health and disease more than his merely
 14 LIFE OF

" mechanical and chemical properties. It is

" true that about the same time, Dr. Cullen
" and other physicians began to throw off the
" Boerhaavian yoke; but from the minute
" observation which Dr. Darwin has given
" of the laws of association, habits and phe-
" nomena of animal life, it is manifest that his
" system is the result of the operation of his
" own mind."

   The only other record of his life in Edin

Iburgh which possess is a letter to his friend

Dr. Okes, of Exeter,* written shortly after
the death of his father (1754), when he was

twenty-three years old. It shows his sceptical

frame of mind whilst he was quite a young

man.

        Erasmus Darwin to Dr. Okes.

   "Yesterday's post brought me the disagreeable
news of my father's departure out of this sinful
world.

   " He was a man of more sense than learning ; of
very great industry in the law, even after he had no
business, nor expectation of any. He was frugal,
but not covetous ; very tender to his children, but

   * Published by one of his descendants in the ' Gentleman's
Magazine,' Oct. 1808, vol. lxxviii. pt. ii. p. 869.
   ERASMUS DARWIN.                                     15

still kept them at an awful kind of distance. He

passed through this life with honesty and industry,

and brought up seven healthy children to follow his

example.

  "He was 72 years old, and died the 20th

of this current November 1754. ' Blessed are they

that die in the Lord.'
   u That there exists a superior Ens Entium, which

formed these wonderful creatures, is a mathematical

demonstration. That He influences things by a par
ticular providence, is not so evident. The proba

bility, according to my notion, is against
                                                   it itsince

general laws seem sufficient for that end. Shall we    is
                                                          is ? it,
say no particular providence necessary to roll thisa is
                                                                      a
Planet round the Sun, and yet affirm necessary
in turning up cinque and quatorze, while shaking
box of dies or giving each his daily bread The
light of Nature affords us not single argument for
   ?
      ;

               is
a  future state this the only one, that                possible

with God, since He who made us out of nothing can

surely re-create us and that He will do this what
   I;
we humbly hope. like the Duke of Buckingham's

epitaph --'Pro Bege ssepe, pro Bepublica, semper,

dubius, non improbus vixi incertus, sed inturbatus
                   ;

morior. Christum advenero, Deo confido benevolenti !'

et omnipotenti, Ens Entium miserere mei
                                           " Erasmus Darwin."

   The expression " disagreeable news," ap
16 LIFE OP

plied to his father's death, sounds very odd
to our ears, but he evidently used this word

where we should say "painful." For, in a

feeling letter to Josiah Wedgwood, the famous

potter, written a quarter of a century after

wards (Nov. 29th, 1780), about the death of

their common friend Bentley, in which he

alludes to the death of his own son, he says
                                           " the
nothing but      exertion will dispossess
                ideas of our loss."
" disagreeable

In 1755 he returned to Cambridge, and

took his Bachelor of Medicine degree. He

then again went to Edinburgh, and early in

Sept. 1756, settled as a physician in Notting

ham. Here, however, he remained for only

two or three months, as he got no patients.
Whilst in Nottingham he wrote several

letters, some in Latin and some in English,

to his friend, the son of the famous German

philosopher, Reimarus.* Mechanics and me

dicine were the bonds of union between them.

Erasmus also dedicated a poem to young

Reimarus, on his taking his degree at Leyden

  I* am much indebted to a son of Dr. Sieveking, who brought

to England the original letters preserved by the descendants of

Reimarus, for permitting me to have them photographed.
               ERASMUS DARWIN.            17

in 1754. Various subjects were discussed

between them, including the wildest specula

tions by Erasmus on the resemblance between

the action of the human soul and that of elec

tricity, but the letters are not worth pub
Ilishing. In one of them he says : " believe
I" forgot to tell how Dr. Hill makes his
"  ' Herbal ' (a formerly well-known book).
   He has got some wooden plates from some
"
   old herbal, and the man that cleans them
"

" cuts out one branch of every one of them,
" or adds one branch or leaf, to disguise
I" them. This
               have from my friend Mr.
" G y, watch-maker, to whom this print-
" mender told
               a it,adding, make plants now
" every day that God never dreamt of.' " It
                        I'
also appears from one of his letters to

Reimarus, that Erasmus corresponded at this
time about short-hand writing with Gurney,

the author of well-known book on this

subject. Whilst still young he filled six

volumes with short-hand notes, and continued

to make use of the art for some time.

   Several of the letters to Reimarus relate to

a case in which Dr. Darwin appears to have

been much interested. He sent or helped to

                                       c
18 LIFE OP

send a working man to a London surgeon,

Mr. D., for a serious operation. Eeimarus

and Dr. Darwin appear to have had some

misunderstanding with the surgeon, expect

ing that he would perform the operation

gratuitously. Dr. Darwin writes to Eeimarus :
" I am very sorry to hear that D. took six
" guineas from the poor young man. He
" has nothing but what hard labour gives
" him ; is much distressed by this thing
..." costing him near £30 in all, since the

" house where he lay cheated him much.

I" When he returns shall send
I" him two guineas.        beg you would not
I" mention to my brother that
                               send this
" to him." Why his brother should not be

told of this act of charity it is difficult to

conjecture. From two other letters it appears

that Dr. Darwin wrote anonymously to his

friend the surgeon, complaining of his charge ;

and that when suspected of this discreditable

act he did not own the authorship of the

letter. He wrote to Eeimarus (Nottingham
ISept.

" to
 9th, 1756): "You          say am suspected

be the Author of it        (i.e. the anonymous
" letter), and next to me  some malicious per
     ERASMUS DARWIN.                      19

I"
I"
son  somewhere else, and that   am desired
as   am a gentleman to declare  concerning
I" it. First, then, as I am upon Honour,
I" must not conceal that am glad there are
" Persons who will revenge Faults the Law
" can not take hold off : and 1 hope Mr. D.
" will not be affronted at this Declaration ;
" since you say he did not- know the Distress
" of the Man. Secondly, as another Person
I I"
I"
is suspected,     will not say whether    am
                  not, since don't think  the
the Author or
" Author merits Punishment, for informing
" Mr. D. of a Mistake. You call the Letter
" a threatening Letter, and afterwards say
" the Author pretends to be a Friend to
" Mr. D. This, though you give me several
" particulars of
                  it,  is     Contradiction don't
                                I
                           a

" understand." In P.S. he adds that Rei-
                       a

marus might show the letter to Mr. D. The

anonymous letter answered its purpose, for

the surgeon returned four guineas, and Dr.

Darwin thought    it   probable that he would

ultimately return the other two guineas.

   In November 1756, Erasmus settled in

Lichfield, and now his life may be said to

                                c

                                     2
20 LIFE OF

have begun in earnest ; for it was here, and
in or near Derby, to which place he removed
in 1781, that he published all his works.
Owing to two or three very successful cases,
he soon got into some practice at Lichfield as

Aa physician, when twenty-five years old.

year afterwards (Dec. 1757) he married Miss
Mary Howard, aged 17-18 years, who, judging

Ifrom all that have heard of her, and from

some of her letters, must have been a superior
and charming woman. She died after a long
and suffering illness in 1770. They seem to
have lived together most happily during the
thirteen years of their married life, and she
was tenderly nursed by her husband during her
last illness. Miss Seward gives,* on second
hand authority, a long speech of hers, ending
with the words, " he has prolonged my days,
" and he has blessed them." This is probably
true, but everything which Miss Seward says
must be received with caution; and it is
scarcely possible that a speech of such
length could have been reported with any

accuracy.

    The following letter was written by

       * ' Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Darwin,' 1804, pp. 11-14.
             ERASMUS DARWIN.                      21

Erasmus four days before bis marriage with
Miss Howard.

Erasmus Darwin to Mart Howard.

Dear Polly,                  Daklaston, Dec. 24, 1757.

IAs was turning over some old mouldy

Ivolumes, that were laid upon a Shelf in a Closet of

my Bed-chamber; one found, after blowing the

Dust from it with a Pair of Bellows, to be a Eeceipt

Book, formerly, no doubt, belonging, to some good

old Lady of the Family.       The   Title Page    (so much
of it as the Bats had left)  told  us it was " a  Bouk off

verry monny muckle vallyed Receipts bouth in
Kookery and Physicks." Upon one Page was " To

make Pye-Crust," --in another " To make Wall-

Crust,"-- "To make Tarts,"-- and at length. "To
make Love." "This Beceipt," says I, "must be
curious, I'll send it to Miss Howard next Post, let
the way of making it be what it will." --Thus it is
" To make Love. Take of Sweet- William and of

Rose-Mary, of each as much as is sufficient. To the

former of these add of Honesty and Herb-of-grace ;

and to the latter of Eye-bright and Motherwort of

each a large handful: mix them separately, and

then, chopping them altogether, add one Plumb,

two sprigs of Heart's Ease and a little Tyme. And
it makes a most excellent dish, probatum est. Some

put in Bue, and Cuckold-Pint, and Heart-Chokes,
22 LIFE OF

and Coxcome, and Violents; But these spoil the

Iflavour of it entirely, and even disprove of Sallery

Iwhich some good Cooks order to be mix'd with it.

have frequently seen it toss'd up with all these at the

Tables of the Great, where no Body would eat of it,

the very appearance was so disagreable."
   Then follow'd " Another Eeceipt to make Love,"

which began " Take two Sheep's Hearts, pierce them

many times through with a Scewer to make them

Tender, lay them upon a quick Fire, and then taking
             " here Time with his long Teeth
one Handful

had gnattered away the remainder of this Leaf. At
the Top of the next Page, begins "To make an

Ihonest Man." " This is no new dish to me," says I,

" besides it is now quite old Fashioned ; won't read

it." Then follow'd "To make a good Wife."

" Pshaw," continued I, " an acquaintance of mine, a

young Lady of Lichfield, knows how to make this

Dish better than any other Person in the World, and

she has promised to treat me with it sometime," and

If Ithus in a Pett threw doun the Book, and would not
read any more at that Time.  should open it

Iagain tomorrow, whatever curious and useful receipts
   shall meet with, my dear Polly may expect an

account of them in another Letter.

  I have the Pleasure of your last Letter, am glad

to hear thy cold is gone, but do not see why it
should keep you from the concert, because it was

gone. We drink your Health every day here, by
ERASMUS DARWIN".                 23

Ithe Name of Dulcinea del Toboso, and told Mrs.

Jervis and Miss Jervis that we were to have been

married yesterday, about which they teased me all
Ithe Evening.
IFever before.  heard nothing of Miss Fletcher's

                will certainly be with Thee on

Wednesday evening, the Writings are at my House,

and may be dispatched that night, and if a License

Itakes up any Time (for know nothing at all about

Ithese Things) should be glad if Mr. Howard would

order one, and by this means, dear Polly, we may

have the Ceremony over next morning at eight

o'clock, before any Body in Lichfield can know
Ifalmost of my being come Home.
                                 a License is to
Ibe had the Day before, could wish it may be put

off till late in the Evening, as the Voice of Fame

Imakes such quick Dispatch with any News in so

small a Place as Lichfield.-- think this is much

the best scheme, for to stay a few Days after my

Eeturn could serve no Purpose, it would only make

us more watch'd and teazed by the Eye and Tongue

Iof Impertinence. -- shall by this Post apprize my
ISister to be ready, and have the House clean, and

Iwish you would give her Instructions about any

trivial affairs, that cannot recollect, such as a cake

you mentioned, and tell her the Person of whom,

and the Time when it must be made, &c. I'll desire

her to wait upon you for this Purpose. Perhaps

Miss Nelly White need not know the precise Time

Itill the Night before, but this as you please, as
  (illegible). You could rely upon her Secrecy, and
24 LIFE OF

it's a Trifle, if any Body should know. Matrimony,

my dear Girl, is undoubtedly a serious affair, (if any
Thing be such) because it is an affair for Life : But,

as we have deliberately determin'd, do not let us be

frighted about this Change of Life ; or however, not

let any breathing Creature perceive that we have

Ieither Fears or Pleasures upon this Occasion : as

am certainly convinced, that the best of Confidants

(tho' experienced on a thousand other Occasions)
could as easily hold a burning cinder in their Mouth

as anything the least ridiculous about a new married

Icouple ! have ordered the Writings to be sent to

Mr. Howard that he may peruse and fill up the

Iblanks at his Leizure, as it wilt (I foresee) be dark

night before get to Lichfield on Wednesday. Mrs.

Jervis and Miss desire their Com pi. to you, and often

Isay how glad she shall be to see you for a few Days
at any Time.  shall be glad, Polly, if thou hast

Time on Sunday night, if thou wilt favour me with

a few Lines by the return of the Post, to tell me

how Thou doest, &c. --My Compl. wait on Mr.
Howard if He be returned. --My Sister will wait

Iupon you, and hope, Polly, Thou wilt make no

IScruple of giving her Orders about whatever you
chuse, or think necessary.  told her Nelly White

is to be Bride-Maid. Happiness attend Thee ! adieu

              from, my dear Girl,

                                      thy sincere Friend,

                                                   E. Daewin.
P.S. --Nothing about death in this Letter, Polly.
      ERASMUS DARWIN.                                         25

   It has been said that he soon got into prac

Itice at Lichfield, and have found the fol

lowing memorandum of his profits in his own

handwriting :--

    The profits of my business amounted

From Nov. 12, 1756 to Jan. 1, 1757                 £ s.   d.
                                                  18 7    6
                                                          6
Jan.  1757                          »    1758 192 10      0
                                                          0
99 1758 99 1759                                   305 2   0
                                                  469 4   0
99 1759 99 1760                                   544 2   0
                                                  669 18  0
»     1760                          99   1761     726 0   0
                                                  639 13  4
99 1761 99 1762                                           6
                                                          0
          99 1762 99 1763                                 6

From Jan. 12, 1763 to Jan. 1, 1764                        6
                                                          6
99 1764 99 1765 750 13                                    0

99 1765 99 1766 800 1

99 1766 99 1767 748 5

99 .  1767                          99   1768 847 3

99    1768                          99   1769 775 11

99    1769                          %99  1770     ?

99 1770 99 1771 956 17

99    1771                          99   1772 1064 7

99 1772 99 1773 1025 3

Later in life he gave up the good habit of

keeping accurate accounts, for in 1799 he wrote

to my father that he had been much perplexed

what return to make to the commissioners
"(olfieivnecodmmeytbauxsinesassto"
      ?),

           I

                                   a
                                    be   kept no  book, but be-
                                         £1000    year, and de
26 LIFE OF

"  duct £200  for travelling expenses and chaise
"  hire, and  £200 for a livery-servant, four

" horses and a day labourer." Subsequently

he informed my father that the commissioners

had accepted this estimate. A century ago

an income of £1000 would probably be equal

Ito one of £2000 at the present time ; but am

greatly surprised that his profits were not

larger. All his friends constantly refer to

his long and frequent journeys, for his prac

tice lay chiefly amongst the upper classes

of society. When he went to live at the

Priory, he remarked to my father in a letter

that five or six additional miles would make

little difference in the fatigue of his journeys.

   In 1781, eleven years after the death of
his first wife, he married the widow of

Colonel Chandos Pole, of Radburn Hall. He

had become acquainted with her in the

Spring of 1778, when she had come to

Lichfield in order that he might attend her

children professionally. It is evident from

the many MS. verses addressed to her before

their marriage, that Dr. Darwin was passion

ately attached to her, even during the life

time of her husband, who died in 1780.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  27

These verses are somewhat less artificial than

his published ones. On his second marriage

he left Lichfield, and after living two years
at Radburn Hall, he removed into the town
of Derby, and ultimately to Breadsall Priory,

a few miles from the town, where he died
in 1802.

   There is little to relate about his life at

Ieither Lichfield or Derby, and, as am not
Iattempting a connected narrative, will here
Igive such impressions as have formed of his

intellect and character, and a few of his letters

which are either interesting in themselves, or
which throw light upon what he thought and
felt.

   His correspondence with many distin
guished men was large ; but most of the

Iletters which possess or have seen are unin

teresting, and not worth publication. Medi
cine and mechanics alone roused him to

write with any interest. He occasionally
corresponded with Rousseau, with whom he
became acquainted in an odd manner, but
none of their letters have been preserved.
Rousseau was living in 1766 at Mr. Daven
port's house, Wootton Hall, and used to
28 LIFE OP

spend much of his time " in the well-known
" cave upon the terrace in melancholy con-
" ternplation." He disliked being interrupted,

so Dr. Darwin, who was then a stranger to

him, sauntered by the cave, and minutely

examined a plant growing in front of it. This

drew forth Eousseau, who was interested in

botany, and they conversed together, and

Iafterwards corresponded during several years.
      find a letter written in February 1767 on

a singular subject. A gentleman had con

sulted him about the body of an infant which

had apparently been murdered.  Tt was

believed to be the illegitimate child of a

lady, and to have been murdered by its

mother. He kept a copy of this letter,

without any address. Omitting all medical

details it runs as follows :--

DEAB Sir,  Lichfield, Feb. 7, 1767.
 ******I am sorry you should think it necessary to

Imake any excuse for a Letter this morning received

from you. The Cause of Humanity needs no Apology
to me.
   The Women that have committed this most
unnatural crime, are real objects of our greatest
ERASMUS DARWIN.                                                            29

Pity ; their education has produced in them so

much Modesty, or sense of Shame, that this artificial

Passion overturns the very instincts of Nature! --

what Struggles must there be in their minds, what

agonies !--at a Time when, after the Pains of Par

turition, Nature has designed them the sweet Conso

lation of giving Suck to a little helpless Babe, that
depends on them for its hourly existence !-- Hence
the cause of this most horrid crime is an excess of
what is really a Virtue, of the Sense of Shame, or
Modesty. Such is the Condition of human Nature !

I have carefully avoided the use of scientific terms

in this Letter that you may make any use of it you

Imay think proper; and shall only add that am

veryly convinced of the Truth of every part of it.
       and am, Dear Sir,
               Your affectionate friend and servant,
                                           Erasmus Darwin.

'

          is,

                                                                       i.

                                                              a
   There perhaps, no safer test of man's
real character than that of his long continued
friendship with good and able men. Now,
Mr. Edge worth, the father of Maria Edge-
worth, the authoress, asserts,* after mention
ing the names of Keir, Day, Small, Bolton,
Watt, Wedgwood, and Darwin, that "their
" mutual intimacy has never been broken

      * Memoirs of R. L. Edgeworth,' 2nd ed. vol. p. 181.
30 LIFE OF

" except by death." To these names, those
of Edgeworth himself and of the G-altons
may be added. The correspondence in my
possession shows the truth of the above
assertion. Mr. Day was a most eccentric

character, whose life has been sketched by

Miss Seward: he named Erasmus Darwin
" as one of the three friends from whom he
" had met with constant kindness ;"* and

Dr. Darwin, in a letter to my father, says :
" I much lament the death of Mr. Day.
" The loss of one's friends is one great evil
" of growing old. He was dear to me by
"
"  many names (multis mihi nominibus charus),
   as friend, philosopher, scholar, and honest
" man."
   I give below two of his letters to Josiah

Wedgwood.

   Erasmus Darwin to Josiah Wedgwood.

Dear WEDGWOOD,  Lichfield, Sept. 30, 1772.
   I did not return soon enough out of Derby

shire to answer your letter by yesterday's Post.

Your second letter gave me great consolation about

Mrs. Wedgewood, but gave me most sincere grief

   * ' Memoirs of R. L. Edgeworth,' 2nd ed. vol. ii. p. 113.
           ERASMUS DARWIN".                                                    31

Iabout Mr. Brindley, whom have always esteemed

to be a great genius, and whose loss is truly a public
I Ione.
don't believe he has left his equal.                                           think

the various Navigations should erect him a monu

ment in Westminster Abbey, and hope you will at

the proper time give them this hint.

IMr. Stanier sent me no account of him, except of
it

          it I

              I
                                                            it,

                                                                                                                                           !

                                         iIf
                                              I
his death, though so much desired since                                        had

understood that he got worse, nothing should have
Ifhindered me from seeing him again.
                                      Mr. Hen-

shaw took any Journal of his illness or other circum

stances after saw him, wish you would ask him for

and enclose to me. And any circumstances that

*****you recollect of his life should be wrote down, and

will some time digest them into an Eulogium. These
men should not die, this Nature denies, but their

Memories are above her Malice. Enough

Erasmus Darwin to Josiah Wedgwood.

DEAE SlE,  Lichfield, Nov. 29, 1780.

Your letter communicating to me the death of

your friend, and beg may call him mine Mr.
a

          I

               I

                                                                            ;

                                                                  a
Bentley, gives me very great concern and train of

very melancholy ideas succeeds in my mind, uncon

nected indeed with your loss, but which still at times

casts shadow over me, which nothing but exertion

in business or in acquiring knowledge can remove.
32 LIFE OF

IThis exertion must recommend to you, as it for a

time dispossesses the disagreeable ideas of our loss ;

and gradually their impression or effect upon us

becomes thus weakened, till the traces are scarcely

perceptible, and a scar only is left, which reminds us

of the past pain of the united wound.

Mr. Bentley was possessed of such variety of know

ledge, that his loss is a public calamity, as well as

to his friends, though they must feel it the most
sensibly ! Pray pass a day or two with me at Lich

Ifield, if you can spare the time, at your return.

Iwant much to see you ; and was truly sorry was

Ifrom home as you went up ; but do beg you will
Ialways lodge at my house on your road, as do at

Iyours, whether you meet with me at home or not.
      have searched in vain in Melmoth's translation

of Cicero's letters for the famous consolatory letter

of Sulpicius to Cicero on the loss of his daughter (as
the work has no index), but have found the first
                                ·

                                        it,
letter in small publication called Letters on the
          iIt a
most common as well as important occasions in Life:'I

Newberry, St. Paul's, 1758. This letter  is    masterly
                                            a

piece of oratory indeed, adapted to the man, the time,

and the occasion.    think  it  contains everything

which could be said upon the subject, and you have
                                         if

not seen  beg you to send for the book.

For my own part, too sensible of the misfortunes of

others for my own happiness, and too pertinacious of

the remembrance of my own [i.e. the death of his
               ERASMUS DARWIN.                   33

Ison Charles in 1778], am rather in a situation to

demand than to administer consolation. Adieu. God

bless you, and believe me, dear Sir, your affectionate

friend                               E. Darwin,

Ten years later he seems to have doubted

much about the consolation to be derived

from the letter of Sulpicius, for he writes

(1790) to Edgeworth:*

  I Imuch condole with you on your late loss.

know how to feel for your misfortune. The little

Tale you sent is a prodigy, written by so young

a person, with such elegance of imagination. Nil

admirari may be a means to escape miser}7, but not

Ito procure happiness. There is not much to be had
in this world --we expect too much!  have had

my loss also. The letter of Sulpicius to Cicero is
fine eloquence, but comes not to the heart ; it tugs,
but does not draw the arrow. Pains and diseases of

the mind are only cured by Time. Keason but

shins the wound, which is perpetually liable to

fester again.

   Amongst the old letters preserved, there
is one without any date from Hutton, the
founder of the modern science of geology, and

I extract its commencement, as proceeding

from so illustrious a scientific man. Dr.

                * ' Memoirs,' 2nd ed. 1821, vol. ii. p. 110.

                                                                                  D
34 LIFE OP

Darwin seems to have complained to him of

having been cheated by some publisher; and
Hutton answers : --

  If you have no more money than you use, then be

as sparing of it as you please, but if you have money

to spend, then pray learn to let yourself be cheated,

that   it is,learn to lay out money for which you
Ifhave no other use.
            is           this be not philosophy, at

least             itgood sense for why the devil should
                      ;                                                    it

                         a                                                     is
man have money to be plague to him, when                                             a
                                                                               so

easy to throw away and thro' spirit of general
                      ;     if                                          a

benevolence you are afraid of mankind suffering from

this root of all evil, for God's sake send to the
                                                                           it

bottom of the sea, there can only poison fish and
   will there make in time noble fossil specimen.
it

                            it

                                                a

   One of his granddaughters has remarked
to me, that the term " benevolent " has been
associated with his name, almost in the same
manner as that of " judicious" with the name
of the old divine, Hooker. This perfectly
true, for have incessantly met with this
expression in letters and in the many pub
lished notices about him. To the word bene

volent, sympathy generally added, and often
generosity, as well as hospitality. Mr. Edge-

worth says * " have known him intimately
       I
                                                is

       *
          '

                     :

               I
                         is

                                                          '
                                                                    p.
       M. nthly Magazine 1802 115.
             ERASMUS DARWIN".      37

Erasmus Darwin to his son Robert.

DearKobert,                    April 19, 1789.
I am sorry to hear you say you have many

enemies, and one enemy often does much harm.

The best way, when any little slander is told one, is

never to make any piquant or angry answer ; as the

person who tells you what another says against you,

Ialways tells them in return what you say of them.

used to make it a rule always to receive all such in

formation very coolly, and never to say anything

biting against them which could go back again ; and

by these means many who were once adverse to me,

in time became friendly. Dr. Small always went

and drank tea with those who he heard had spoken

against him ; and it is best to show a little attention
at public assemblies to those who dislike one; and it

generally conciliates them.

*****

   Robert seems to have consulted his father
about some young1 man, whom he wished to
see well started as an apothecary, and received

the following answer :--

Erasmus Darwin to his son Robert.

DEAR KoBERT,"                Derby, Bee. 17, 1790.
      I cannot give any letters of recommendation
Ito Lichfield, as am and have been from their in
38 LIFE OF

fancy acquainted with all the apothecaries there;

and as such letters must be directed to some of their

patients, they would both feel and resent it. When

IMr. Mellor went to settle there from Derby took

no part about him. As to the prospect of success

there, if the young man who is now at Edinburgh

Ishould take a degree (whicli suppose is probable),

he had better not settle in Lichfield.

  I should advise your friend to use at first all

means to get acquainted with the people of all ranks.

At first a parcel of blue and red glasses at the windows

might gain part of the retail business on market

days, and thus get acquaintance with that class of
Ipeople.
          remember Mr. Green, of Lichfield, who is

now growing very old, once told me his retail busi

ness, by means of his show-shop and many-coloured

Iwindow, produced him £100 a year. Secondly,

remember a very foolish, garrulous apothecary at

Cannock, who had great business without any know

ledge or even art, except that he persuaded people

he kept good drugs; and this he accomplished by

only one stratagem, and that was by boring every

person who was so unfortunate as to step into his
shop with the goodness of his drugs. " Here's a fine

piece of assafcetida, smell of this valerian, taste this

album graecum. Dr. Fungus says he never saw such

a fine piece in his life." Thirdly, dining every

market day at a farmers' ordinary would bring him

Isome acquaintance, and don't think a little impedi-
           ERASMUS DARWIN.      39

inent in his speech would at all injure him, but

rather the contrary by attracting notice. Fourthly,

Icard assemblies, -- think at Lichfield surgeons are

not admitted as they are here; --but they are to

dancing assemblies ; these therefore he should attend.
IThus have emptied my quiver of the arts of the
IPharmacopol. Dr. K
                      d, think, supported his

business by perpetual boasting, like a Charlatan ;

this does for a blackguard character, but ill suits a

more polished or modest man.

  If the young man has any friends at Shrewsbury

who could give him letters of introduction to the

proctors, this would forward his getting acquaint

ance. For all the above purposes some money must

at first be necessary, as he should appear well ;

which money cannot be better laid out, as it will

pay the greatest of all interest by fettling him

well for life. Journeymen Apothecaries have not

greater wages than many servants ; and in this state

they not only lose time, but are in a manner lowered

in the estimation of the world, and less likely to
Isucceed afterwards.
                      will certainly send to him,
I Iwhen first go to Lichfield.
                                do not think his
Iimpediment of speech will injure him ; did not find
Ifit so in respect to myself.
                               he is not in such

narrow circumstances but that he can appear well,

and has the knowledge and sense you believe him
Ito have,
           dare say he will succeed anywhere. A

letter of introduction from you to Miss Seward, men
40 LIFE OP

tioning his education, may be of service to him, and
another from Mr. Howard. Adieu, from, dear

Kobert,

         Yours most affectionately,
                                             E. Darwin.

   My father spoke of Dr. Darwin as having

great powers of conversation. Lady Charle-

ville, who had been accustomed to the most

brilliant society in London, told him that Dr.
Darwin was one of the most agreeable men

whom she had ever met. He himself used
to say " there were two sorts of agreeable

" persons m conversation parties--agreeable

" talkers and agreeable listeners."
   He stammered greatly, and it is surprising

that this defect did not spoil his powers

of conversation. A young man once asked

him in, as he thought, an offensive manner,

whether he did not find stammering very

inconvenient. He answered, "No, Sir, it
" gives me time for reflection, and saves me
" from asking impertinent questions." Miss

ISeward speaks of him as being extremely

sarcastic, but of this can find no evidence

in his letters or elsewhere. It is a pity that

Dr. Johnson in his visits to Lichfield rarely
ERASMUS DARWIN.  41

met Dr. Darwin ; but they seem to have

disliked each other cordially, and to have

felt that if they met they would have quar

Irelled like two dogs. There can, suppose,

be little doubt that Johnson would have come

off victorious. In a volume of MSS. by

Dr. Darwin, in the possession of one of his

granddaughters, there is the following stanza :

   From Lichfield famed two giant critics come,

   Tremble, ye Poets ! hear them ! " Fe, Fo, Fum !"
   By Seward's arm the mangled Beaumont bled,
   And Johnson grinds poor Shakespear's bones for bread.

He is evidently alluding to Mr. Seward's
edition of ' Beaumont and Fletcher's Plays,'
and to Johnson's edition of ' Shakespear '
in 1765.

   He possessed, according to my father, great
facility in explaining any difficult subject ; and
he himself attributed this power to his habit
of always talking about whatever he was
studying, " turning and moulding the subject
" according to the capacity of his hearers."

He compared himself to Gil Bias's uncle, who
learned the grammar by teaching it to his

nephew.
42 LIFE OF

    When he wished to make himself disagree
able for any good cause, he was well able to
do so. Lady * * * married a widower,
and became so jealous of his former wife
that she cut and spoiled her picture, which
hung up in one of the rooms. . The husband,
fearing that his young wife was becoming
insane, was greatly alarmed, and sent for Dr.
Darwin. When he arrived he told her in

the plainest manner many unpleasant truths,
amongst others that the former wife was
infinitely her superior in every respect, in
cluding beauty. The poor lady was aston
ished at being thus treated, and could never
afterwards endure his name. He told the

husband if she again behaved oddly, to hint

that he would be sent for. The plan suc
ceeded perfectly, and she ever afterwards
restrained herself.

   My father was much separated from Dr.
Darwin after early life, so that he remem
bered few of his remarks, but he used to

fquote one saying as very true : " that the

   world was not governed by the clever men,
" but by the active and energetic." He used
also to quote another saying, that " common
ERASMUS DARWIN".  43

" sense would be improving, when men left
" off wearing as much flour on their heads
" as would make a pudding ; when women
" left off wearing rings in their ears, like
" savages wear nose rings ; and when fire-
" grates were no longer made of polished
" steel."

    Dr. Darwin has been frequently called an

atheist, whereas in every one of his works

distinct expressions may be found showing
that he fully believed in God as the Creator

of the universe. For instance, in the ' Temple
of Nature,' published posthumously,* he
writes : " Perhaps all the productions of
" nature are in their progress to greater per-
" fection ! an idea countenanced by modern
" discoveries and deductions concerning the
" progressive formation of the solid parts of
" the terraqueous globe, and consonant to
" the dignity tof the creator of all things."
He concludes one chapter in ' Zoonomia '
with the words of the Psalmist : " The
" heavens declare the Glory of God, and the

u firmament sheiceth his handiwork."

   * 'Temple of Nature,' 1803, note, p. 54. See also the
striking foot-note (p. 142) on the immutable properties of
matter "received from the hand of the Creator," etc.
44 LIFE OF

   He published an ode on the folly of

Iatheism, with the motto " am fearfully and

wonderfully made," of which the first verse

is as follows :--

          Dull atheist, could a giddy dancea
             Of atoms lawless hurl'd
                                       [1.
          Construct so wonderful, so wise,

             So harmonised world            ?

   With reference to morality he says " The  it
                                                                           :*
                                                    '
...." famous sentence of Socrates, Know your-
" self,'     however wise may be, seems
" to be rather of
          '                         selfish nature
                          '
                                 a
" But the sacred maxims of the author of
" Christianity, Do as you would be done by,'
" and Love your neighbour as yourself,'
" include all our duties of benevolence and
" morality and,
"            ;                      sincerely obeyed by all

"                    a if
   nations,  would       thousandfold multiply                                 the
   present   happiness   of mankind."

   Although Dr. Darwin was certainly                                           a

theist in the ordinary acceptation of the

term, he disbelieved in any revelation. Nor

did he feel much respect for unitarianism, for

he used to say that " unitarianism was

             'Temple of Nature,' 1803, note 124.
          *
                                                                       p.
             ERASMUS DARWIN.  45

a feather-bed to catch a falling Chris

tian."

   Remembering through what an exciting

period of history Erasmus lived, it is singular

how rarely there is more than an allusion in

his letters to politics. He would now be

called a liberal, or perhaps rather a radical.
He seems to have wished for the success of

the North American colonists in their war

for independence ; for he writes to Wedgwood
                        "

             1782) :
             see peace,
I("Olcivt.e17,             hope Dr. Franklin will
         to
                           to see America recline
" under her own vine and fig-tree, turning
" her swords into plough-shares, &c." Like

so many other persons, he hailed the begin
ning of the French Revolution with joy and

triumph. Miss Seward, in a letter to Dr.

"IWhalley, dated May 18, 1792, says:

" should indeed now begin to fear for France ;
" but Darwin yet asserts that, in spite of all
" disasters, the cause of freedom will triumph,

." and France become, ere long, an example,
" prosperous as great, to the surrounding
 " nations."

    She remarks in another letter, Darwin " was
46 LIFE OF

' a far-sighted politician, and foresaw and

«" foretold the individual and ultimate mis-
" chief of every pernicious measure of the

" late Cabinet." *

In February 1789, he tells Wedgwood that

he had been reading ' Colonel Jack,' by De

Foe, and suggests that the account there

given of the generous spirit of black slaves

should be republished in some journal.

"IAgain, on April 13th of the same year
(1789), he writes:     have just heard that
" there are muzzles or gags made at Birming-
If" ham for the slaves in our islands.
                                        this
" be true, and such an instrument could be
" exhibited by a speaker in the House of
" Commons, it might have a great effect.

*' Could not one of their long whips or

" wire tails be also procured and exhibited ?

" But an instrument of torture of our own
" manufacture would have a greater effect,

" I dare say."

   The* following lines on Slavery were*

published in Canto III. of the ' Loves of

the Plants,' 1790 :--

· ' Journals of Dr. Whalley, 1863, vol. pp. 73, 230-222.ii.
ERASMUS DARWINT.                                     47

" Throned in the vaulted heart, his dread resort,
  Inexorable Conscience holds his court ;
  With still small voice the plots of Guilt alarms.
   Bares his mask'd brow, his lifted hand disarms ;
  But wrapp'd in might with terrors all his own,
   He speaks in thunder, when the deed is done.
   Hear him, ye Senates ! hear this truth sublime,

   He, who allows oppression, shares the crime."

   The date of this poena and of the above
letter should be noticed, for let it be re

membered that even the slave-trade was

not abolished until 1807; and in 1783 the

managers of the Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel absolutely declined, after a
full discussion, to give Christian instruction
to their slaves in Barbadoes. *

    He sympathised warmly with Howard's
noble work of reforming the state of the
prisons throughout Europe, as his lines in

the ' Loves of the Plants ' (Canto II.)
 show :--

     " And now, Philanthropy ! thy rays divine
        Dart round the globe from Zembla to the line ;
        O'er each dark prison plays the cheering light,
       Like northern lustres o'er the vault of night. --
        From realm to realm, with cross or crescent crown'd,
        Where'er mankind and misery are found,

     * Lecky, ' Hist, of England in the Eighteenth Century,' 1878,
 vol. ii. p. 17.
 48 LIFE OF

        O'er burning sands, deep waves, or wilds of snow,

      Thy Howard journeying seeks the house of woe-

        Down many a winding step to dungeons dank,
        Where anguish wails aloud, and fetters clank ;
       To caves bestrew'd with many a mouldering bone,
        And cells, whose echoes only learn to groan ;
       Where no kind bars a whispering friend disclose,
       No sunbeam enters, and no zephyr blows,
       He treads, inemulous of fame or wealth,
       Profuse of toil, and prodigal of health;
      With soft assuasive eloquence expands
       Power's rigid heart, and opes his clenching hands,
      Leads stern-eyed Justice to the dark domains,

     If not to sever, to relax the chains.

          The spirits of the Good, who bend from high
       Wide o'er these earthly scenes their partial eye,
       When first, arrayed in Virtue's purest robe,
        They saw her Howard traversing the globe ;
       Mistook a mortal for an Angel-Guest,
      And ask'd what Seraph-foot the earth imprest.
       Onward he moves ! Disease and Death retire,
      And murmuring demons hate him, and admire."

   Judging from his published works, letters,

Iand all that have been able to gather about

him, the vividness of his imagination seems
to have been one of his pre-eminent charac

teristics. This led to his great originality of

thought, his prophetic spirit both in science
and in the mechanical arts, and to his over

powering tendency to theorise and generalise.
           ERASMUS DARWIX.                  49

Nevertheless, his remarks, hereafter to be

given, on the value of experiments and the
use of hypotheses show that he had the true
spirit of a philosopher. That he possessed

uncommon powers of observation must be
admitted. The diversity of the subjects to
which he attended is surprising. But of all

his characteristics, the incessant activity or
energy of his mind was, perhaps, the most

remarkable. Mr. Keir, himself a distin

guished man, who had seen much of the
world, and who " had been well acquainted
" with Dr. Darwin for nearly half a century,"

after his  death wrote (May 12th,    1802) to my
father :   " Your father did indeed  retain more
" of his original character than almost any
I" man have known, excepting, perhaps, Mr.
"
"  Day [author of ' Sandford and Merton,'   &c.].
   Indeed, the originality of character in  both
" these men was too strong to give way to
" the example of others." He afterwards
proceeds : " Your father paid little regard
to " authority, and he quickly perceived the

" analogies on which a new theory could be
" founded. This penetration or sagacity by

   which he was able to discover very remote

                                     E
50 LIFE OP

" causes and distant effects, was the charac-
" teristic of his understanding. Perhaps it
" may be thought in some instances to have
" led him to refine too much, as it is difficult
" in using a very sharp-pointed instrument
" to avoid sometimes going rather too deep.
" By this penetrating faculty he was enabled
" not only to trace the least conspicuous
" indications of scientific analogy, but also
" the most delicate and fugitive beauties of

" poetic diction. If to this quality you add

" an uncommon activity of mind and facility

" of exertion, which required the constant
" exercise of some curious investigation, you

" will have, I believe, his principal features."

   His activity continued to his latest days ;
and the following letter, written when he

was sixty-one years old to my father, shows
his continued .zeal in his profession.

Erasmus Darwin to his Son Robert.

DEAE EOBEET,  Derbs-, April 13, 1792.

I Ithink you and should sometimes exchange

a long medical letter, especially when any uncommon

diseases occur ; both as it improves one in writing
ERASMUS DARWIN.                          51

clear intelligible English, and preserves instructive
cases. Sir Joshua Keynolds, in one of his lectures

on pictorial taste, advised painters, even to extreme

old age, to study the works of all other artists, both
ancient and modern; which he says will improve
their invention, as they will catch collateral ideas
(as it were) from the pictures of others, which is a

different thing from imitation ; and adds, that if they
do not copy others, they will be liable to copy them-

selves, and introduce into their work the same faces,

Iand the same attitudes again and again. Now in

medicine am sure unless one reads the work of

others, one is liable perpetually to copy one's own

prescriptions, and methods of treatment; till one's

whole practice is but an imitation of one's self; and

half a score medicines make up one's whole materia

medica ; and the apothecaries say the doctor has but

I4 or 6 prescriptions to cure all diseases.
   Reasoning thus, am determined to read all the new

medical journals which come out, and other medical

publications, which are not too voluminous ; by which
one knows what others are doing in the medical world,

and can astonish apothecaries and surgeons with the

new and wonderful discoveries of the times. All this

harangue lately occurred to me on reading the trials

made by Dr. Crawford.              ^  0

                             4f #

   My father seems to have urged him, about
the year 1793, to leave off professional work;

                                                                E2
52 LIFE OF

lie answered, " it is a dangerous experiment,
" and generally ends either in drunkenness
I*' or hypochrondriacism. Thus
"                               reason,
"
   one must    do something (so country squires
   fox-hunt),   otherwise one grows weary of
" life, and becomes a prey to ennui. There-
" fore one may as well do something advan-
" tageous to oneself and friends or to mankind,
" as employ oneself in cards or other things
" equally insignificant." During his frequent

and long journeys, he read and wrote much

in his carriage, which was fitted up for

the purpose. Nor was travelling an easy
affair in those days, for owing to the state of

the roads, a carriage could hardly reach some

Iof the houses which he had to visit ; and hear

from one of his granddaughters that an old
horse named the " Doctor," with a saddle on,

used to follow behind the carriage, without

being in any way fastened to it ; and when

the road was too bad, he got out and rode

upon Doctor. This horse lived to a great age,

and was buried at the Priory.

   When at home he was an early riser; and

Ihe had his papers so arranged (as have

heard from my father) that if he awoke in
ERASMUS DARWIN.                53

the night he was able to get up and continue

his work for a time, until he felt sleepy.
Considering his indomitable activity, it is a

singular fact that he suffered much from a

sense of fatigue. On my once remarking to

my father, how greatly fatigued he seemed
Ito be after                   "

" inherit it
his day's work, he  answered,
from my father."

In some notes made by my father in 1802,

he states that Dr. Darwin naturally was of a

bold disposition, but that a succession of acci

dents made a deep impression on his mind, and

that he became very cautious. "When he was

about five years old he received an accidental

blow on the top of his head, sufficiently severe

to give him a white lock of hair for life.

Later on, when he was fishing with his

brothers, they put him into a bag with only

his feet out, and being thus blinded he walked

into the river, and was very nearly drowned.

Again, when he and Lord George Cavendish

were playing with gunpowder at school, it

exploded, and he was badly injured ; and

lastly, he broke his kneecap.

   Owing to his lameness, he was clumsy in

his movements, but when young, was a very
54 L1FK OF

active man. His frame was large and bulky,
and he grew corpulent when old. He was
deeply pitted with the small-pox.

  It is remarkable that in so large a town

as Derby, and at so late a period as 1784,
there was no public institution for the
relief of the poor in sickness. Dr. Darwin
therefore at this time drew up a circular, the
MS. of which is in my possession, stating that
': as the small-pox has already made great

" ravages in Derby, showing much malignity
" even at its commencement ; and as it is now
iC three years since it was last epidemic in this
" town, there is great reason to fear that it will
" become very fatal in the approaching spring,
" particularly amongst the poor, who want
" both the knowledge and the assistance neces-
" sary for the preservation of their children."
He accordingly proposed that a society should
be formed --the members to subscribe a guinea

each, and that a room should be hired as a

dispensary, where the medical men of the town
 might give their attendance gratuitously.
 The poor were to be directed to take their pre
 scriptions in due order to all the druggists in
 the town, apparently to disarm opposition.
   ERASMUS DARWIN.  55

The circular then expresses the hope that

t"hestodniespoenf saarfyutu"rme ainyfirpmroavrey."the foundation-
   In this same year of 1784 he seems to

have taken the chief part in founding a

Philosophical Society in Derby. The mem

bers met for the first time at his house, and

he delivered to them a short but striking

address, from which the following passages
Imay be given : " come now to the second
" source of our accurate ideas. As we are
" fashioned and constituted by the niggard
" hand of Nature with such imperfect and
" contracted faculties, with so few and such
" imperfect senses ; while the bodies, which
" surround us, are indued with infinite variety
" of properties ; with attractions, repulsions,
" gravitations, exhalations, polarities, minute-
" ness, irresistance, &c., which are not cog-
" nizable by our dull organs of sense, or not
" adapted to them ; what are we to do ? shall
" we sit down contented with ignorance, and
" after we have procured our food, sleep away
" our time like the inhabitants of the woods
"
"  and pastures ?   No, certainly ! -- since there
   is another way  by which we may indirectly
56 LIFE OF

" become acquainted with those properties of
" bodies, which escape our senses ; and that
"
   is by  observing and registering their effects upon
"
   each   other. This is the tree of knowledge,
" whose fruit forbidden to the brute creation
"
"  has been plucked by       the  daring  hand of
   experimental philosophy  ."

   He concludes the address with the words :
I" hope at some distant time, perhaps not
" very distant, by our own publications we
" may add something to the common heap
I"
                            prophecy will never
"
   of knowledge ; which     long as the human

   cease to accumulate, so
" footstep is seen upon the earth."

   No man has ever inculcated more persist

ently and strongly the evil effects of intemper

ance than did Dr. Darwin ; but chiefly on the

grounds of ill-health, with its inherited conse

quences ; and this perhaps is the most practical

line of attack. It is positively asserted that he

diminished to a sensible extent the practice of

drinking amongst the gentry of the county.*

    * The following short history of temperance societies is

extracted from Dr. Krause's MS. notes on Dr. Darwin :--
"The oldest temperance societies were founded in North

America in 1808 by the efforts of Dr. Rush, and in Great

Britain in 1829, chiefly at the suggestion of Mr. Dunlop.
               ERASMUS DARWIX.                             57

He himself during many years never touched

alcohol under any form ; but he was not a

bigot on the subject, for in old age he informed

my father that he had taken to drink daily

two glasses of home-made wine with advant

age. Why he chose home-made wine is not

obvious ; perhaps he fancied that he thus did

not depart so widely from his long-continued

Irule. He

Wedgwood,
               also  wrote (Oct. 15,        "177w2)oultdo
               who   had feeble health :
" advise you to live as high as your constitution
"
   will admit  of, in respect to both eating                and
"  drinking.   This advice could be given to               very

Ifu few people !     you were to weigh yourself
" once a month you would in a few months
" learn whether this method was of service to

" you." His advocacy of the cause is not yet

See Samuel Couling, ' History of the Temperance Move

ment in Great Britain and Ireland, from the earliest data
to the present time ; ' London, 1862. In Germany, indeed, the

Archduke Frederick of Austria had founded a temperance order

as early as 1439, which was followed in 1600 by the temperance

order established by the Landgrave of Hesse, but these were only

imitations of the Templars and other orders of knighthood,

which sought by vows to suppress the coarse excesses of drinking

bouts, as is indicated by the motto of the first-mentioned order :
' Halt Maas ! ' The suggestion of the establishment in Ger

many   of true temperance societies on the  American  and  English
model  was due to King Frederick William
                                             III,"
58 LIFE OF

forgotten, for Dr. Bichardson, in his address
in 1879 to the " British Medical Temperance

Association," remarks: "the illustrious Hal-
" ler, Boerhaave, Armstrong, and particularly
" Erasmus Darwin, were earnest in their sup-
" port of what we now call the principles of
" temperance."

When a young man he was not always

temperate. Miss Seward relates* a story,

which would not have been worth notice had

it not been frequently quoted. My grand

father went on a picnic party in Mr. Sneyd's

boat down the Trent, and after luncheon, when
"(inabMsioslsutSeelywainrdto'sxiceatleegd,anthislansgpuiraitgse)w, e"reif
                                                                            not
                                                                           in a
" high state of vinous exhilaration," he sud

denly got out of the boat, swam ashore in his
clothes, and " walked coolly over the meadows
" towards the town" of Nottingham. He

there met an apothecary, whose remonstrances

about his wet clothes he answered by saying

that the unusual internal stimulus would
" counteract the external cold and moisture ; "

be then mounted on a tub, and harangued

the mob in an extremely sensible manner on

* ' Memoirs of Dr. Darwin,' pp. 64-68.
             ERASMUS DARWIX.                                        59

sanitary arrangements. But it is obvious

that these harangues must have been largely
the work of Miss Seward's own imagination.

There was, however, some truth in this story,

for his widow, who did not believe a word

of wrote to Mr. Sneyd, whose answer
   it,
lies before   me. He admits    that                               something
       I     did happen, but  gives                               no details,
" similar "      I:
and advises Mrs. Darwin " to take no noticeI
"
"  of this part of                                               aher (Miss Seward's) very
   unguarded and      scandalous publication."

To show what the gentry of the county

thought of her book at the time, will add

that Mr. Sneyd, after alluding in the same

letter to her account of the death of his son
Erasmus, remarks " The authoress deserves
" to be exposed for her want of veracity and
" every humane feeling." One of Dr. Dar

win's stepsons (as hear from his daughter)

used always to maintain that this half- tipsy

freak was due to some of the gentlemen of
the party, " who were vexed at his tempe-
" rate habits," having played him trick;

and this, presume, means that he was per
suaded to drink something as weak which

was really strong.
60 LIFE OP

   The following incident related by Mr.

Edgeworth * illustrates the humane side of his

character. Mr. Edgeworth had corresponded,

as a stranger, with Dr. Darwin, about the

construction of carriages, and came to Lich

field to see him, but did not find him at

home. He was asked by Mrs. Darwin to
stay to supper. " When this was nearly
" finished, a loud rapping at the door an-
" nounced the doctor. There was a bustle
" in the hall, which made Mrs. Darwin get
" up and go to the door. Upon her ex-
" claiming that they were bringing in a dead
I I" man, went to the hall.
                             saw some per-
I" sons, directed by one whom guessed to be
" Doctor Darwin, carrying a man who ap-
" peared motionless. ' He is not dead,' said

I" Dr. Darwin, ' he is only dead drunk.
" found him,' continued the doctor, 'nearly
I" suffocated in a ditch ; had him lifted into
" my carriage, and brought hither, that we
" might take care of him to-night.' " Not

many men would have done anything so

disagreeable as to bring home a drunken

man in their carriage. When a light was

* ' Memoirs of R. L. Edgeworth,' 2nd edit. vol. i. p. 158.
ERASMUS DARWIN".                      61

brought, the man was found to be, to the

astonishment of all present, Mrs. Darwin's
brother, " who for the first time in his life,"
as Mr. Edgeworth was assured, " had been
" intoxicated in this manner, and who would
" undoubtedly have perished had it not been
" for Dr. Darwin's humanity." We must

remember that in those good old days it was

not thought much of a disgrace to be very

drunk. After the man had been put to bed,

Mr. Edgeworth says that Dr. Darwin and he

first discussed the construction of carriages

and then various literary and scientific sub
Ijects, so that " he discovered that
                                      had
" received the education of a gentleman."
I"Why, thought," said the doctor, "that
" you were only a coachmaker." " That was,
" the reason," said I, tf that you looked so sur-
" prised at finding me at supper with Mrs.
" Darwin. But you see, doctor, how superior
" in discernment ladies are even to the most
" learned gentleman."

He was kind and considerate to his' servants,

as the two following stories show. His son

Robert owed him a small sum of money, and

instead of being paid, he asked Robert to buy
62 LIFE OF

                is it,

                                  it
                                         it

                                                  if
a goose-pie with for which seems Shrews

bury was then famous, and send at Christ

mas to an old woman living in Birmingham,
" for she, as you may remember, was your
" nurse, which
                   the greatest obligation,
" well performed, that can be received
" from an inferior." This was in the year

1793.

On the day of his death, in the early morn

ing, whilst writing long and affectionate
                   a
                                                              a
letter to Mr. Edge worth, he was seized with

violent shivering fit, and went into the kitchen

to warm himself before the fire. He there saw

an old and faithful maid servant churning,

and asked her why she did this on Sunday
                   a
                           :

                             !" I
                                         a

                                            it

                                                        is
morning. She answered that she had always

done so, as he liked to have fresh butter

every morning. He said " Yes, do, but
" never again churn on Sunday

   That Dr. Darwin was charitable, we may

believe on Miss Seward's testimony, as

supported by concurrent evidence. After

saying that he would not take fees from the:
priests and lay-vicars of the Cathedral of Lich

field, she adds " Diligently, also, did he
" attend to the health of the poor in the city
        ERASMUS DARWIN.                                    63

c""  and afterwards at Derby, and supplied their
     necessities of food, and all sort of charitable
" assistance." * Sir Brooke Boothby also, in
one of his published sonnets, says :--

       If bright example more than precept sway

       Go, take your lesson from the life of Day,
       Or, Darwin, thine whose ever-open door
       Draws, like Bethesda's pool, the suffering poor
       Where some fit cure the wretched all obtain

       Relieved at once from poverty and pain.

     The gratitude of the poor to him was shown

on two   occasions in a strange       manner.f
Having                             the Caven
        to see a patient --one of
dishes --at Newmarket during the races, he

slept at an hotel, and during the night was

awakened by the door being gently opened.

A man came to his bedside and thus spoke

     I* ' Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Darwin,' 1804, p. 5.  have

     t These stories appear at first hardly credible, but

traced them, more or less clearly, through four distinct channels

to my grandfather, whose veracity has never been doubted by

any one who knew him. The fundamental facts are the same

with respect to the jocky story, but the accessories differ to an
extreme degree. With respect to the second story even some of

Ithe fundamental facts differ, and feel much doubt about it. It

is quite curious how stories get unintentionally altered in the

course of years. They were first communicated to me by a

daughter of Violetta Darwin, who heard her mother relate

them.
64 LIFE OP

Ito him : " heard that you were here, but
" durst not come to speak to you during the
I" day.
                 have never forgotten your kind-
" ness to my mother in her bad illness, but
" have not been able to show you my grati-
I" tude before.
                 now tell you to bet largely
" on a certain horse (naming one), and not
I" on the favourite, whom am to ride, and
" who we have settled is not to win." My

grandfather afterwards saw in the newspaper
that to the astonishment of everyone, the

favourite had not won the race.

                 is,

                                                                           a
The second story that as the doctor wa?

riding at night on the road to Nottingham

man on horseback passed him, to whom he

said good night. As the man soon slackened

his pace, Dr. Darwin was forced to pass him,

and again spoke, but neither time did the man

give any answer. A few nights afterwards

traveller was robbed at nearly the same
a
              a
spot by man who, from the description, ap
                      is
peared to be the same. It added that my

grandfather out of curiosity visited the robber

in prison, who owned that he had intendedit
to rob him, but added " thought was you,
" and when you spoke was sure of it. You
                 :

                   I

                 I
             ERASMUS DARWIN.     65

" saved my life many years ago, and nothing
" could make me rob you."*

   Notwithstanding so much evidence of Dr.
Darwin's benevolence and generosity, it has
been represented that he valued money in

ordinately, and that he wrote only for gain.
This is the language of a notice published
shortly after his death,f which also says that

he was very vain, and that ",flattery was
" found to be the most successful means of
" gaining his notice and favour."

  IAll that have been able to learn goes to

show that this was a mistaken view of his

character.

In a letter to my father, dated Feb. 7, 1792,

he writes :
" As to fees, if
                  your business pays you well
on the whole,      would not be uneasy about
I"
" making absolutely the most of it. To live
" comfortably all one's life, is better than to
" make a very large fortune towards the end
" of it."

In another letter not dated, but written in

* In one version of this story, the visit of Dr. Darwin to the

man is not mentioned, so that there is then no point to the story.

   t ' Monthly Magazine,' or ' British Register,' vol. xiii. 1802,

p. 457.                       F
66 LIFE OF

1793, he remarks :" There are two kinds of

" covetousness, one the fear of poverty, the

I" other the desire of gain. The former,

" believe, at some times affects all people
" who live by a profession." Again, his son
Erasmus, in writing on Nov. 12, 1792, to my
father, after remarking how rich he was be

Icoming, adds : " am not afraid of being rich,

" as our father used to say at Lichfield he
" was, for fear of growing covetous ; to avoid
" which misfortune, as you know, he used to
" dig a certain number of duck puddles
" every spring, that he might fill them up
" again in the autumn." How it was possible
to expend much money in digging duck
puddles, it is not easy to see.

   It is probable that the only foundation for

the reviewer's statements, and for others of a

like kind, was the habit he had --perhaps a
foolish one--of often speaking about himself

in a quizzing or bantering tone. Mr. Edge-
worth, who had known him "intimately
" during thirty-six years," in answer to the
reviewer, writes :*

  I" am most anxious to contradict that

               * 1 Monthly Magazine,' vol. ii. 1802, p. 115.
            ERASMUS DARWIN.            67

" assertion of the anonymous biographer,
I" which consider the most unfounded and
" injurious --that Dr. Darwin wrote chiefly
" for money. . . . It is not improbable
" that to avoid offensive adulation he might
" have said ironically that his object in
I" writing was money, not fame.
                                        have
I" heard him say so twenty times, but  never
" for one
" earnest.  moment  supposed him to be in

             ...    It is asserted by the re-
" viewer ' that he stooped to accept of gross
" 'flattery.' Perhaps in the inmost recesses
" of his heart, vanity might reign without
" control, but no man exacted less tribute of
" applause in conversation. When the admi-
" rable travestie of his poetic style was pub-

I" lished in the Anti-jacobin newspaper,

" spoke of it in his presence in terms of
" strong approbation, and he appeared to

I" think as did, of the wit, ingenuity, and

" poetic merit of the parody." To ask the

author of the ' Loves of the Plants ' to admire

the ' Loves of the Triangles ' was putting his

temper through a severe ordeal. Mr. Keir,

who had known Dr. Darwin well for nearly

half a century, remarks in a letter (May 12,

                             F2
68 LIFE OF

"18m0o2r)e:  "The works of your father are a

             faithful monument and more true
" mirror of his mind than can be said of
" those of most authors. For he was not
" one of those who wrote invito, Minerva, or
" from any other incitement than the ardent
" love of the subject."
IThroughout his letters have been struck

with his indifference to fame, and the com

plete absence of all signs of any over-estima

tion of his own abilities or of the success of
Ihis works.
             infer, from his having men

tioned the fact to my father, that he was

pleased by receiving a print of himself, " well

I" done, believe --proofs, 10s. 6c?. --the first

" impression of which the engraver, Mr.
" Smith, believes will soon be sold, and he
" will then sell a second at 5s." He then
adds : " but the great honour of all is to have
" one's head upon a sign-post, unless, indeed,
" upon Temple Bar ! " This engraving was

copied from the picture by Wright of Derby,

of which a photograph is given in the pre

sent volume. Many pictures were made of

him, but with one or two exceptions they are

characterised by a rather morose and discon
   ERASMUS DARWIN.                         69

tented expression. Mr. Edgeworth, in writing

to him about one of these pictures, says :
" There is a cloud over your brow and a
" compression of the lips that hide your
" benevolence and good humour. And great
I" author as you are, dear doctor,
                                           think
" you excel the generality of mankind as
" much in generosity as in abilities."*
   I Ihave said that, as far as can judge, he

was remarkably free from vanity, conceit, or

display ; nor does he appear to have been am

bitious for a higher position in society. Miss

Fielding, a granddaughter of Lady Charlotte

Finch, governess to Queen Charlotte's daugh
ters, was taken to Dr. Darwin, at Derby, on

account of her health, and was invited to stay

some time at his house. George the Third

heard of my grandfather's fame through
Lady Charlotte, and said : " Why does not
"
"  Dr. Darwin come    to   London   ?"      He shall
   be my physician
                    if    he comes         ; and he

repeated this over and over again in his
usual manner. But Dr. Darwin and his wife

agreed that they disliked the thoughts of a

London life so much, that the hint was not

   * ' Memoirs,' 2nd ed. vol. ii. p. 177.
70 LIFE OP

acted on. Others have expressed surprise that

he never migrated to London.

That he was irascible there can be no doubt.
My father says " he was sometimes violent in
" his anger, but his sympathy and benevo-
" lence soon made him try to soothe or soften
" matters." Mr. Edgeworth also says :* " Five
I" or six times in my life
                              have seen him
" angry, and have heard him express that
" anger with much real, and more apparent
" vehemence --more than men of less sensi-
" bility would feel or show. But then the
" motive never was personal. When Dr.
" Darwin beheld any example of inhumanity
" or injustice, he never could refrain his
" indignation ; he had not learnt, from the
" school of Lord Chesterfield, to smother
" every generous feeling."

  In 1804 Miss Seward published her ' Life
of Dr. Darwin.' It was unfortunate for his

fame that she undertook this task, for she
knew nothing about science or medicine, and
the pretentiousness of her style is extremely
disagreeable, not to say nauseous, to many

                   * ' Monthly Magazine,' 1802, p. 115.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  71

persons ; though others like the book much.

It abounds with inaccuracies, as both my

father and other members of the family
asserted at the time of its publication. For

instance, she states that when dying he sent

for Mrs. Darwin, and first asked her and

then his daughter Emma to bleed him, and
gives their answers in inverted commas. But

the whole account is a simple fiction, for he

expressly told his servant not to call Mrs.
Darwin, but was disobeyed as the servant

saw how ill he was ; and his daughter was

not even present. She does not even give

his age at the time of his death correctly. It

is also obvious that the many long speeches
inserted in her book are the work of her own
imagination, either with some or with no

foundation.

    She describes (p. 406) his conduct when
he heard of the suicide of his son Erasmus,
who drowned himself during a fit of tem

 porary insanity, as inhuman to an unpa
ralleled degree. She asserts that when he
was told that the body "was found, he ex-

" claimed in a low voice, 'Poor insane
 " 'coward,' and, it is said, never afterwards
 " mentioned the subject." Miss Seward then
72 LIFE OF

proceeds (p. 408), " this self-command enabled
" him to take immediate possession of the
" premises bequeathed to him (by his son
"
"  Erasmus)   ; to lay plans for their improve-
   ment ; to  take pleasure in describing those
" plans to his acquaintance, and to determine
" to make it his future residence ; and all this
" without seeming to recollect to how sad an
" event he owed their possession !"

   The whole of this account is absolutely

false, and when my father demanded her

authority, she owned that it had been given

merely on a report at a distant place, without

any inquiry having been made from a single

person who could have really known what
happened. On the day after the death of

                       1799), in a   letter to
Ihis                                 in great

my
   son (Dec.   30th,      "  write
   father, he    says
                       :

" anguish of mind to acquaint you with a
" dreadful event --your poor brother Erasmus
" fell into the water last night at the bottom
" of his garden, and was drowned." His

daughter Emma, who was with him when

the news was brought to him that the body

had been at last found, gave the following
account of his behaviour to my mother : " He
" immediately got up, but staggered so much
              ERASMUS DARWIN.      73

 I" that Violetta and begged of him to sit
 ...." down, which he did, and leaned his head
"  upon his   hand         he was exceedingly
"  agitated,  and   did  not speak for many

I" minutes. His first words were, ' beg you
" ' will not, any of you, ask to see your poor
" 'brother's corpse;' and upon our assuring
" him that we had not the least wish to do
" so, he soon after said that this was the
" greatest shock he had felt since the death of
" his poor Charles." Emma then asserts that

Miss Seward's other statements are utterly

false, namely, that he never afterwards men

tioned his son's death, and that he took imme

diate possession of the property bequeathed to

him. After alluding to other inaccuracies, in

Miss Seward's boob, Emma concludes in a
truly feminine and filial spirit : " There is
" nothing else of such infinite consequence as
" her daring publicly to accuse my dear papa of
" want of affection and feeling towards his son.
I" How can this be contradicted ?
                                   want to
" scratch a pen over all the lies, and send the
" book back to Miss Seward ; but mamma
" won't allow this. She thinks you and my
" brother will think of a better plan ; for
I" myself, should feel no objection to swear
74 LIFE OP

I" the truth of what have said before both

" houses of Parliament."

   In one of my grandfather's letters, dated
Feb. 8th, 1800, he writes: "lam obliged as
"
"  executor daily       to study     his                         (Erasmus's) ac-
   counts, which         is both                                 laborious and
                                      a
" painful business to me." A fortnight after

wards he tells my father about a monument

to be erected to Erasmus, and adds: "Mrs.
I" Darwin and
                        intend to lie in Breadsall
" church by his side." Rarely has a more un

founded calumny been published about anyone

than the above account given by Miss Seward

of Dr. Darwin's behaviour when he heard of

his son's death.*

   That the act of suicide was committed during

temporary insanity there can be little doubt. It

   * Miss Seward published, on my father's demand, the follow

ing retractation    in  tsheevesrtaigl mjoaurrnemalasi,nsbu: t"  such  retractations  are
soon forgotten,   and                                            The   authoress of   the
' Memoirs of Dr. Darwin,' since they were published, has dis

covered, on the attestation of his family and other persons pre

sent at the juncture, that the statement given of his exclamation,

page 406, on the death of Mr. Erasmus Darwin, is entirely with

out foundation ; and that the doctor, on that melancholy event,

gave amongst his own family, proofs of strong sensibility at the

time, and of succeeding regard to the memory of his son, which

he seemed to have a pride in concealing from the world. In

justice to his memory, she is desirous to correct the misinforma

tion she had received." (' Monthly Magazine,' 1804, p. 378 ;
and other journals and newspapers.)
           ERASMUS DARWIN.                        75

is known that a change of disposition generally

precedes insanity, and Erasmus, from being

an excellent man of business, had become

dilatory to an abnormal degree. It appears

that he had neglected to do something of im

portance for my father ; and my grandfather,

nearly two years before Erasmus's death,

"Iwrote in his excuse to my father (Jan. 8th,
"17h9i8m)   as follows:           have not    spoken to
           on your affairs,  his  neglect of  small busi-
"
                                                  is a
I I"                                              that
   nesses (as he   thinks    them, suppose,)
   constitutional               learnt yesterday
                   disease.
" he had like to have been arrested for a small
" candle bill of 3 or 4 pounds in London, which
" had been due 4 or 5 years, and they had
" repeatedly written to him ! and that a trades-
" man in this town has repeatedly complained
"to a friend of his that he owes Mr. D.
" £70, and cannot get him to settle his ac-
I" count.
           write all this to show you, that his
" neglectful behaviour to you, was not owing
" to any disrespect, or anger, but from what ?
"
"  --from defect of   voluntary power.        Whence
                      for ever 1"
   he procrastinates

   He was evidently conscious himself of some

mental change, for he purchased, six weeks
   76 LIFE OF

   before his death, the small estate of the

   Priory, near Derby ; where he intended,

   though only forty years old, to retire from

   business, and spend the rest of his days in

   quiet ; or, as Dr. Darwin, who could not
   have foreseen what all this foreboded, ex

   pressed it (in a letter to my father, Nov.
   28th, 1799), "to sleep away the remainder of
   « his life."

      Amongst the property of Erasmus my
   grandfather found a little cross made of platted

   grass (now in my possession) gathered from
   the tomb of Charles, who had died twenty

   years before. A week before his own death,

   he sent this to my father to be preserved.
      The false reports about Dr. Darwin's

   conduct on the death of his son, probably
   originated in his strong dislike to affectation,
   or to any display of emotion in a man. He

   therefore wished to conceal his own feelings,

   and perhaps did so too effectually. My father
   writes : " He never would allow any common
   " acquaintance to converse with him upon
   "
      any subject that he felt poignantly  to  feel
   "
      It was his maxim, that in order

      cheerful you must appear to be so." There

i
ERASMUS DARWIls.                                                                                                 77

was, moreover, a vein of reserve in him. Miss
Seward, in answer to a remark by my father,

says (May 10th, 1802, i.e., before the publica

It"""ioofanrcfoqmouyafoiunytrhtoeeudrla'mwtMeeitelnhlmitnetodghiresmfad'et)ihs:ehproo", wsTittooioolintftewleealenldylsouuwhrpaarhbsisaiteds

" been able to gather from himself concerning
" the circumstances of his life, which pre-
" ceded your birth, and those which passed
" beneath the unobservant eyes of sportive
" infancy." ^

   The many friends and admirers of Dr. Dar
win were indignant at Miss Seward's book, and
thought that it showed much malice towards
him. No such impression was left on my
mind when lately re-reading but only that
of scandalous negligence, together, perhaps,
with wish to excite attention to her book,
by inserting any wild and injurious report
about him. The friends, however, of Dr.
Darwin were right, for in letter, dated May
12th, 1802, written to the Eev. Dr. Whalley*
before she published the Memoirs, she shows

   * Journals of Dr. Whalley/ edited by Wickham not pub
lished until 1863, vol. p. 342.
'

     a

                             i.

                                           a

                                          it,

                                                                                                              ;
78 LIFE OP

her true colours, and gives an odious character

of " that large mass of genius and sarcasm," as
she calls him : She speaks of the " cold
" satiric atmosphere around him, repulsing
" the confidence and the sympathy of friend-
" ship." And adds in her usual stilted phrase,
" Age did not improve his heart; and on its
" inherent frost, poetic authorism, commenc-
" ing with him after middle life, engrafted
" all its irritability, disingenuous arts, and
" grudging jealousy of others' reputation in
" that science."

   It is natural to inquire why Miss Seward

wrote so bitterly about a man with whom
she had lived on intimate terms during many
years, and for whom she often expressed, and
probably felt, the highest admiration. The
only possible explanation appears to be that
she had wished to marry him after the death
of his first wife and before his second
marriage. This was the case according to

Iseveral members of the family, and under

stood from my father that he possessed docu
mentary evidence (subsequently destroyed) to
this effect. This explains the following sig
nificant sentence in a letter written to her by
                ERASMUS DARWIN.  79

my father, March 5th, 1804, in relation to her
account of the suicide of Erasmus : " Were
I"
     to have    published my father's papers in
" illustration    of his conduct, some circum-

" stances must  unavoidably have appeared,
" which would   have been as unpleasant for
" you to read as for me to publish." Disap

pointed affection, with some desire for

revenge, renders her whole course of conduct

intelligible.

  I may here allude to some calumnies about

Dr. Darwin, which appeared in 1858 in the
' Life ' of Mrs. Schimmelpenninck, who was a

younger sister of Tertius G-alton, Dr. Darwin's

son-in-law. She there says that he scoffed at

conscience and morality, disbelieved in God,

and was a coarse glutton. These statements

are hardly worth notice, as they were dictated

in old age, she having seen Dr. Darwin, in
her own words, only " with the eyes of a

child." Nor was she always a trustworthy
Iperson.
          have a copy of a letter written

(Feb. 20th, 1871) by one of her nieces to

Dr. Dowson, who had used her book in his

' Life of Dr. Darwin,' and nothing can be more

explicit than the remarks about her un
 80 LIFE OP

 trustworthiness. One of her sisters also, in
 speaking of these statements, says : " They
 " are facts distorted, and give a false impres-
 " sion." With regard to the charge of glut

 tony, as Dr. Darwin was a tall, bulky man,
 who lived much on milk, fruit, and vegetables,
 it is probable that he ate largely, as every
 man must do who works hard and lives on

such a diet.

    As it is interesting to see how far Erasmus
Darwin transmitted his characteristic qualities

Iof mind to his descendants, will give a short

account of his children. He had three sons
by his first wife (besides two who died in
infancy), and four sons and three daughters
by his second wife. His eldest son, Charles
(born September 3, 1758), was a young man
of extraordinary promise, but died (May 15,
1778) before he was twenty-one years old from
the effects of a wound received whilst dissect
ing the brain of a child. He inherited from
his father a strong taste for various branches of
science, for writing verses, and for mechanics.
"Tools were his playthings," and making
            ERASMUS DARWIN.                                   81

" machines was one of the first efforts of his
"
"  ingenuity, and one              of    the  first  sources  of
   his amusement." *

   He also inherited stammering. With the

hope of curing him, his father sent him to

France when about eight years old (1766-67),

with a private tutor, thinking that if he was

not allowed to speak English for a time, the

habit of stammering might be lost ; and it is

a curious fact that in after years when speak

ing French he never stammered. At a very

early age he collected specimens of all kinds.

When sixteen years old he was sent for a year

to Oxford, but he did not like the place, and
"
"  thought   (in the words of his father)            that the
   vigour   of the mind languished in                the pur-
" suit of classical elegance, like Hercules at
" the distaff, and sighed to be removed to the
" robuster exercise of the medical school of
" Edinburgh." He stayed three years at

Edinburgh, working hard at his medical

   * These statements are taken chiefly from a sketch of his life

published by his father, Erasmus, in L780, together with two of
his posthumous medical essays. See also Hutchinson's ' Bio-
graphia Medica,' 1799, vol. i. p. 239 ; also ' Biographie
                                                    i7n94t,hseig'nGeden"tleAm. Dan.,'"s
Universelie,' vol. x. 1855 ; also  an    article
Magazine,' September 1st, 1 794,   vol.  lxi v. p.

evidently Professor Andrew Duncan, of Edinburgh.

                                                     G
82 LIFE OF

studies, and attending " with diligence all the
" sick poor of the parish of Waterleith, and
" supplying them with the necessary medi-
" cines." The iEsculapian Society awarded

him its first gold medal for an experimental
enquiry on pus and mucus. Notices of him
appeared in various journals; and all the
writers agree about his uncommon energy
and abilities. He seems, like his father, to
have excited the warm affection of his friends.
Professor Andrew Duncan, in whose family
vault Charles was buried, cut a lock of hair
from the corpse, and took it to a jeweller,

whose apprentice, afterwards the famous Sir
H. Raeburn, set it in a locket for a memorial.*

The venerable professor spoke to me about
him with the warmest affection forty-seven

Iyears after his death, when was a young

medical student in Edinburgh. The inscrip
tion on his tomb, written by his father, says,
with more truth than is usual on such occa
sions : " Possessed of uncommon abilities and
" activity, he had acquired knowledge in,
" every department of medical and philoso-
" phical science, much beyond his years."

      * ' Harveian Discourse,' by Professor A. Duncan, 1824.
        ERASMUS DARWIX.                              83

Dr. Darwin was able to reach Edinburgh

before Charles died, and had at first hopes of

his recovery ; but these hopes, as he informed

my father, " with anguish," soon disappeared.

Two days afterwards he wrote to Wedgwood

to. the same effect, ending his letter with the
        " God bless you,
words,  children succeed  my dear   friend, may
                          better."  Two and a
" your

half years afterwards he again wrote to
I"Wededmgwanododt,ha"n
                        am rather in a situation     to
                        to administer consolation."

   About the character of his second son,

IErasmus (born 1759), have little to say, for,

though he wrote poetry, he seems to have had

none of the other tastes of his father. He had,

however, his own peculiar tastes, viz. gene
alogy, the collecting of coins, and statistics.
When a boy he counted all the houses in the
city of Lichfield, and found out the number of
inhabitants in as many as he could ; he thus

made a census, and when a real one was first

made, his estimate was found to be nearly

accurate. His disposition was quiet and re
tiring. My father had a very high opinion
of his abilities, and this was probably just,

for he would not otherwise have been invited

                                    G2
84 LIFE OF

to travel with, and pay long visits to, men
so distinguished in different ways as Boulton

the engineer, and Day, the moralist and
novelist. He was certainly very ingenious.

He detected by a singularly subtle plan the

author of a long series of anonymous letters,

which had caused, during six or seven years,

extreme annoyance and even misery to many

of the inhabitants of the county. The author

was found to be a county gentleman of not

inconsiderable standing. He was a successful

solicitor in Lichfield, but his death, Dec. 30,

I1799, was a sad one, as have already men

tioned.

The third son, Robert Waring Darwin (my

father, born 1766), did not inherit any apti

tude for poetry or mechanics, nor did he

Ipossess, as think, a scientific mind. He

published, in Vol. lxxvi. of the ' Philosophical

Transactions,' a paper on Ocular Spectra,

which Wheatstone told me was a remarkable

Iproduction for the period ; but believe that

he was largely aided in writing it by his

father. He was elected a Fellow of the
IRoyal Society in 1788.
                         cannot tell why

my father's mind did not appear to me fitted
ERASMUS DARWIN".

for advancing science ; for he was fond of

theorising, and was incomparably the most

acute observer whom I ever knew. But his

powers in this direction were exercised almost

wholly in the practice of medicine, and in the

observation of human character. He intui

tively recognised the disposition or character,

and even read the thoughts, of those with

whom he came into contact with extraordi

nary acuteness. This skill partly accounts

for his great success as a physician, for it

impressed his patients with belief in him ;

and my father used to say that the art of

gaining confidence was the chief element in

a doctor's worldly success.

Erasmus brought him to Shrewsbury

before he was twenty-one years old, and left

him £20, saying, " Let me know when you

I"want more, and will send it you." His

uncle, the rector of Elston, afterwards also

sent him £20, and this was the sole pecuniary
Iaid which he ever received.
                              have heard

him say that his practice during the first

year allowed him to keep two horses and a

man-servant. Erasmus tells Mr. Ed^eworth
·that his son Robert, after being settled in
 86 LIFJi OK

Shrewsbury for only six months, " already

had between forty and fifty patients." By

the second year he was in considerable, and

ever afterwards in very large, practice. His

success was the more remarkable, as he for

some time detested the profession, and declared

that if he had been sure of gaining £100 a

year in any other way he would never have

practised as a doctor.

    He had an extraordinary memory for the
dates of certain events, so that he knew the

day of the birth, marriage, and death of most
of the gentlemen of Shropshire. This power,
however, far from giving him any pleasure,
annoyed him, for he told me that his memory
for dates reminded him of painful events, and
so added to his regret for the death of old
friends. His spirits were generally high, and
he was a great talker. He was of an ex

tremely sensitive nature, so that whatever

annoyed or pained him, did so to an extreme
degree. He was also somewhat easily roused
to anger. One of his golden rules was never
to become the friend of any one whom you

Icould not thoroughly respect, and think he

always acted on it. But of all his charac
ERASMUS DARWIN.                87

teristic qualities, his sympathy was pre-emi

Inent, and believe it was this which made

him for a time hate his profession, as it con

stantly brought suffering before his eyes.
Sympathy with the joy of others is a much
rarer endowment than sympathy with their

pains, and it is no exaggeration to say that

to give pleasure to others was to my father

an intense pleasure. He died November 13th,

1849. A short notice of his life appeared in

the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society.'

   Of the children of Erasmus by his second

marriage, one son became a cavalry officer, a
second rector of Elston, and a third, Francis

(born 1786, died 1859), a physician, who
travelled far in countries rarely visited in

those days. He showed his taste for Natural

History by being fond of keeping a number
Iof wild and curious animals.
                               may add that

one of his sons, Captain Darwin, is a great

sportsman, and has published a little book,

the 'Gamekeeper's Manual' (4th ed. 1863),
which shows keen observation and knowledge

of the habits of various animals. The eldest

daughter of Erasmus, Violetta, married S.

ITertius Gralton, and feel sure that their son,
88 LIFE OF

Francis,* will be willing to attribute the re
markable originality of his mind in large part

to inheritance from his maternal grandfather.f

   As Dr. Kranse has so fully discussed Dr.

Darwin's published writings I have but little

to say about them. After settling at Lich
field, he attended, during several years, chiefly

to medicine ; but no doubt he was continu

ally observing and making notes on various

subjects. A huge folio common-place book,

begun in 1776, is in the possession of Reginald
Darwin and is half filled with notes and specu
lations" Considering how voluminous a writer
he became when old, it is remarkable that he
does not appear to have thought for a long

time of publishing either prose or poetry. In

a letter dated Nov. 21st, 1775, (aetat. 43) to

   * Author of " Hereditary Genius," " English Men of Science,"

and of other works and papers.

   t In the interval between his first and second marriages, Dr.
Darwin became the father of two illegitimate daughters. In our
present state of society it may seem a strange fact that my
grandfather's practice as a physician should not have suffered by
his openly bringing up illegitimate children. But to his credit
be it said that he gave them a good education, and from all that

I have heard they grew up to be excellent women, and lived on

intimate terms with his widow and the children by the second

marriage.
             ERASMUS DARWIN.                                  39

Mr. Cradock,* thanking him for a present
"Iof his 'Village Memoirs,' he says:
                                      have
... I" for twenty years neglected the muses, and
" cultivated medicine alone with all my in-
" dustry
                 lately interceded with
" a Derbyshire lady to desist from lopping a
" grove of trees, which has occasioned me to
" try again the long-neglected art of verse-
I" making, which shall inclose to amuse you,
" promising, at the same time, never to write
I" another verse as long as live, but to apply
" my time to finishing a work on some branches
I" of medicine, which intend for posthumous
" publication."

   In 1778 he purchased about eight acres of

land near Lichfield, which he made into a

botanic garden ; and this seems to have been
his chief amusement. " This wild umbrageous
"
   valley    . . . irriguous from various
"  springs,  and swampy from their plenitude,"

as Miss Seward calls it,f now forms part of an

adjoining park ; and a Handbook for Lichfield
describes it as still " a wild spot, but very

" picturesque; many of the old trees remain-

· * ' Literary Memoirs,' 1828, vol. iv. p. 1 43.

       t ' Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Darwin,' 1804, p. 125.
90 UFJ3 OF

" ing, and occasionally a few Darwinian snow-
" drops and daffodils peeping through the
" turf, and bravely fighting the battle of life."

   This garden led him to write his poem of
the 'Botanic Garden,' the second part of

which, entitled the 'Loves of the Plants,' was

published, oddly enough, before the first part
called the 'Economy of Vegetation.' The
' Loves of the Plants,' judging from a prefixed
sonnet, must have appeared in 1788, and the
second edition in 1790. Miss Seward, in her

life of Dr. Darwin, accuses him of having
appropriated several of her verses, and of pub
lishing them in this poem without any acknow
ledgment. The case is a very odd one ; for
first, she herself admits* that it was entirely

through his instrumentality that these verses
were published with her name attached to
them, before the appearance of the ' Botanic
G-arden,' in the ' Monthly Magazine,' and after
wards in the ' Annual Register.' Secondly,
there seems to have been little temptation for

the theft, for the whole history of his life

shows that writing verses on any subject was

not the least labour to him, but only a pleasure.

                * ' Memoirs of the Life of Darwin,' p. 132.
                ERASMUS DARWIN".            91

And thirdly, that Miss Seward remained on
the same friendly, almost playful, terms with
him afterwards as before. The whole case is

unintelligible, and in some respects looks more
like highway robbery than simple plagiarism.
Mr. Edgeworth, in a letter (Feb. 3, 1812) to
Sir Walter Scott,* says that he had expressed
surprise to Dr. Darwin at seeing Miss Seward's
lines at the beginning of his poem, and that

Dr. Darwin replied : " It was a compliment

" which he thought himself bound to pay to a

" lady, though the verses were not of the same
" tenor as his own." But this seems a lame
excuse, and it is an odd sort of compliment to

take the verses without any acknowledgment.

"Perhaps he thought it fair play, for Edge-

worth goes on to say that Miss Seward's ' Ode

" to Captain Cook ' stands deservedly high
" in public opinion. Now to my certain know-

u  ledge most   of the passages which have  been
                the various reviews of the
"  selected in                              work
... I" were written by Dr. Darwin.
                                            knew
" him well, and it was as far from his temper
" and habits, as it was unnecessary to his

*' acquirements, to beg, borrow, or steal from

   any person on earth." These passages at

* ' Memoirs of R. L. Edgeworth,' 2nd ed. 1821, vol. ii. p. 245.
92 LIFE OP

any rate show how true and ardent a friend

Edgeworth was to Dr. Darwin long after his

death.

   In a letter to my father, dated Feb. 21st,

I.1788, he says : " am printing the ' Loves of
I" the Plants,' which shall not put my name

" to, tho' it will be known to many. But

" the addition of my name would seem as if

I" thought it a work of consequence." Not

withstanding this depreciatory estimate, its

Isuccess was great and immediate ; and have

heard my father, who was accurate about

figures, say that a thousand guineas were
paid before publication for the part which

was published last ; an amount which must

have been something extraordinary in those

days. Nor was the success quite transitory,

for a fourth edition appeared in 1799. In

I1 806 an octavo edition of all his poetical works
was published in three volumes.  have my

self met with old men who spoke with a

degree of enthusiasm about his poetry, quite

incomprehensible at the present day. Horace
Walpole, in his letters repeatedly alludes

with admiration to Dr. Darwin's poetry, and

in a letter to Mr. Barrett (May 14th, 1792)

writes :--
                ERASMUS DARWIN".                        93

    " The ' Triumph of Flora,' beginning at the
" fifty-ninth line, is most beautifully and en-
" chantingly imagined ; and the twelve verses
" that by miracle describe and comprehend
" the creation of the universe out of chaos,
" are in my opinion the most sublime pas-
" sages in any author, or in any of the few
I" languages with which
                               am acquainted.
" There are a thousand other verses most
" charming, or indeed , all are so, crowded
" with most poetic imagery, gorgeous epi-
" thets and style : and yet these four cantos
" do not please me equally with the ' Loves of
" the Plants.' " The lines thus eulogised
are :--

'*  Let  there  be  light   "  proclaimed  the Almighty Lord.

                           !

    Astonished Chaos heard the potent word ;--

    Through all his realms the kindling Ether runs,

    And the mass starts into a million suns ;

    Earths round each sun with quick explosions burst,

    And second planets issue from the first ;

    Bend, as they journey with projectile force,

    In bright ellipses their reluctant course ;

    Orbs wheel in orbs, round centres centres roll,

    And form, self-balanced, one revolving whole.

    Onward they move amid their bright abode,

    Space without bound, the Bosom of their God !

    (' The Botanic Garden,' part i. canto i. lines 103-114.)
94 LIFE OF

Mr. Edge worth, in a letter (1790) to
Dr. Darwin, writes about the ' Botanic Gar
Iden :'* " may, however, without wounding
" your delicacy, say that it has silenced for
" ever the complaints of poets, who lament
" that Homer, Milton, Shakespeare, and a
" few classics, had left nothing new to de-
" scribe, and that elegant imitation of imita-
... I" tions was all that
                         could be expected in
" modern poetry.                  read the descrip-
" tion of the Ballet of Medea to my sisters,
" and to eight or ten of my own family. It
" seized such hold of my imagination, that
" my blood thrilled back through my veins,
" and my hair broke the cementing of the
" friseur to gain the attitude of horror."

After the fame of his poetry had begun to

wane, Edgewortb predicted (p.     117)  "that in
                                 arise
" future times some critic will         who shall
" rediscover the ' Botanic Garden,' and build

" his fame upon the discovery." " It will

' shine out again, the admiration of posterity."

Several poets addressed him in compli

mentary odes, as may be seen in the edition

   * 'Memoir of B. L. Edgeworth,' 2nd ed. 1821, vol. ii.

p. 111.

                         (
         t ERASMUS DARWIN.                      97

"  more imperial command of words, or could
"  elucidate with such accuracy and elegance
"  the most complex and intricate machinery."

Byron called him " a mighty master of un

meaning rhyme."

   His first scientific publication was a paper
in the ' Philosophical Transactions' for 1757,

in which he confutes the view of Mr. Eeles,
that vapour ascends through " every particle,

being endued with a portion of electric fire."

The paper is of no value, but is curious as

showing in what a rudimentary condition

some branches of science then were. For Dr.
Darwin remarks that the " distinction has not
"
"  been  knsuofwfilceidegnetly"  considered   by anyone to
   my                             between
                                             " the immense
" rarefaction of explosive bodies " due " to the
" escape of air before condensed in them," as

when     a few grains            of   gtuonp"otwhdeerexpaarensioenx
ploded   in a bladder,
                                 and
" of the constituent parts of those bodies "

through heat, as with steam.

   The following speculative letter (though not

published) is interesting ; but its date must be

borne in mind in judging of its merits.

                                             H
98 LIFE OP

Erasmus Darwin to Josiah Wedgwood.

DEAR SlB,   March, 1784.
I admire the way in which you support your
new theory of freezing steam. You say, " Will not

vapour freeze with a less degree of cold than water
in the mass? instances hoar-frost, &c." Now this

same et csetera, my dear friend, seems to me to be a

Igentleman of such consequence to your theory, that
  wish he would unfold himself a little more.
  I sent an account of your experiment to Mr.
Robert, and desired him to show it to Dr. Black, so

Ithat shall hope some time to hear his opinion on

the very curious fact you mention, of a part of ice

(during a thaw) freezing whilst you applied a heated

Ibody to another part of it. Now in spite of your

et caetera, know no fact to ascertain that vapour
Iwill freeze with less cold than water.
                                         can in no

way understand why, during the time you apply a

heated body to one part of a piece of ice, when the
air of your room was at 50° and the ice had for a day

or two been in a thawing state, that a congelation

should be formed on another part of the same ice,

but from the following circumstances. There is

great analogy between the laws of the propagation of
heat, and those of electricity, such as the same bodies

communicate them easily, as metals, and the same

bodies with more difficulty, as glass, wax, air : they are

both excitable by friction, both give light, fuse metals,
ERASMUS DARWIN.         99

Iet csetera. Therefore suppose that atmospheres of heat

of different densities, like atmospheres of electricity,
will repel each other at certain distances, like globules

of quicksilver pressed against each other, and that

hence by applying a heated body near one end of a

cold body, the more distant end may immediately

become colder than the end nearest to the heated

body.

  I IMarch 11, 1784.
Since  wrote the above  have

reconsidered the matter, and am of opinion that
steam, as it contains more of the element of heat

than water, must require more absolute cold to turn
it into ice, though the same sensible cold, as is neces

sary to freeze water, and that the phenomenon you

have observed, depends on a circumstance which has

not been attended to. When water is cooled down

to freezing point, its particles come so near together,

as to be within the sphere of their reciprocal attrac

tions ; --what then happens ?--they accede with vio

lence to each other and become a solid, at the same

time pressing out from between them some air

which is seen to form bubbles in ice and renders the

whole mass lighter than water (on which it will

swim) by this air having regained its elasticity ; and
pressing out any saline matters, as sea-salt, or blue

vitriol, which have become dissolved in it ; and lastly

by thus forcibly acceding together, the particles of

water press out also some more heat, as is seen by
the rising of the thermometer immersed in such

                 H2
100 LIFE OF

freezing water. This last circumstance demands

your nice attention, as it explains the curious fact

you have observed. When the heat is so far taken

away from water, that the particles attract each

other, they run together with violence, and press out

some remaining heat, which existed in their inter

stices. Then the contrary must also take place when

you add heat to ice, so as to remove the particles

into their reciprocal spheres of repulsion : they recede

from each other violently, and thence attract more

heat into their interstices ; and if your piece of hot

silver is become cold, and has no more heat to give,

or if this thawing water in this its expansile state is

in contact with other water which is saturated with

heat, it will rob it of a part, or produce freezing if

that water was but a little above 32°.
I Idon't know if have expressed myself intelli
I Igibly.
shall relate an experiment made twenty-
Ifive years ago, which confirms your fact.
                                            filled a

brewing-copper, which held about a hogshead and

half, with snow; and immersed about half-an-ounce of

Iwater at the bottom of a glass tube in this snow, as

near the centre as could guess, and then making a

             it it,

                     I
brisk and hasty wood-fire under and letting the

water run off by a cock as fast as melted, found

in few minutes on taking out the tube that the water
it a

      I
in was frozen. This experiment coincides with

yours, and think can only be explained on the above

principle. In support of the above theory can
                                            I
ERASMUS DARWIN*.  101

prove from some experiments, that air when it is

mechanically expanded always attracts heat from
the bodies in its vicinity, and therefore water when
expanded should do the same. But this would

Ilengthen out my letter another sheet ; shall there
Ifore defer it till have the pleasure of a personal

conference with you. Thus ice in freezing gives out
heat suddenly, and in thawing gives out cold sud
denly; but this last fact had not been observed

(except in chemical mixtures) because when heat has

been applied to thaw ice, it has been applied in too

great quantities.
   When shall we meet ? Our little boy has got the

ague, and will not take bark, and Mrs. Darwin is
therefore unwilling to leave him, and begs to defer
her journey to Etruria till later in the season. Pray
come this way to London or from London. Our best
compts. to all yours.

                                           Adieu,

                                                     E. Darwin.

   P.S.--Water cooled beneath 32°, becomes in

stantly ice on any small agitation, or pouring out
of one vessel into another, because that the accession
of the particles to each other, and the pressing out
of the air, or saline matters, and of heat is facili

tated.

    The ' Zoonomia,' which, had been in prepara
tion during many years, was published in
102 LIFE OF

1794. We have seen that in 1775 it was

intended for posthumous publication. Even

so late as Feb. 1792, Dr. Darwin wrote to mya it,aI

Ifather :--" am studying my ' Zoonomia,'
I I" which think shall publish, in hopes of

" selling as am now too old and hardened
" to fear little abuse. Every John Hunter
" must expect Jessy Foot to pursue him, as a
" fly bites horse." The work when published
           a

was translated into German, French, and

Italian, and was honoured by the Pope by

being placed in the Index Expurgatorius.''

Dr. Krause has given so full, impartial, and

interesting an account of the scientific views

contained in this and his other works that

I   need say little on this head. Although

he indulged largely in hypotheses, he knew

full well the value of experiments. Maria

Edgeworth, in writing (March 9th, 1792)

about her little brother Henry, who was fond

of collecting and observing, says --" He will
" at least never come under Dr. Darwin's
                  is a

                        a
                               »'

                                            '

                                                                      :

                                                                   i.
                                                                             p.
" definition of fool. A fool, Mr. Edgeworth,
" you know,
''                    man who never tried an
" experiment in his life. " * Again, in an

    *      Memoir of Maria Edgeworth,' 1867, vol.                                31.
        '
ERASMUS DARWIN.  103

Apology, prefixed to the ' Botanic Garden,' we

have the following just remarks :-- " It may

" be proper here to apologise for many of the
" subsequent conjectures on some articles of
" natural philosophy, as not being supported by
" accurate investigation, or conclusive experi-
" ments. Extravagant theories, however, in
" those parts of philosophy, where our know-
" ledge is yet imperfect, are not without their
" use ; as they encourage the execution of
" laborious experiments, or the investigation
" of ingenious deductions to confirm or refute
" them. And since natural objects are allied
" to each other by many affinities, every
" kind of theoretic distribution of them adds
" to our knowledge by developing some of
" their analogies."

   Dr. Darwin proved himself more ready to
admit those new and grand views in chemistry
(a branch of science which always greatly
interested him) which were developed
towards the close of the last century, than

some professed chemists. James Keir, a
distinguished chemist of the day, writing to

him in March 1790, says* : "You are such

        * ' Sketch of the Life of James Keir, P.E.S.' p. 111.
104 LIFE OP

" an infidel in religion that you cannot believe
" in transubstantiation, yet you can believe
" that apples and pears, &c., sugar, oil,
" vinegar, are nothing but water and char-
" coal, and that it is a great improvement in
" language to call all these things by one
" word -- oxyde hydro-carbonneux."

   There is a good deal of psychology in the

I' Zoonomia,' but fear that his speculations on

this subject cannot be held to have much

value. Nevertheless, G. H. Lewes says of
him *: "Although even more neglected than

" Hartley by the present generation, Darwin,
" once so celebrated, deserves mention here
" as one of the psychologists who aimed at
" establishing the physiological basis of mental
" phenomena." And again : " Had Darwin

f" left us only the passage just cited we

'' should have credited him with a profounder
" insight into psychology than any of his

" contemporaries and the majority of his suc-
" cessors exhibit ; and although the perusal of
" ' Zoonomia ' must convince everyone that

" Darwin's system is built up of absurd hypo-

     * 'History of Philosophy,' 3rd ed. 1867, vol. ii. p. 356.

   f ' Zoonomia,' vol. i. p. 27.
       ERASMUS DARWIN.                          105

"  theses, Darwin deserves a place in history
   for that one admirable conception of psy-
"  chology as subordinate to the laws of life."

"

The illustrious Johannes Miiller quotes with

approbation, though with correction, his ' law
of associated movements.' *

   The ' Zoonomia ' is largely devoted to

medicine, and my father thought that it had

much influenced medical practice in England ;

he was of course a partial, yet naturally a more

observant judge than others on this point. The

book when published was extensively read by

the medical men of the day, and the author

was highly esteemed by them as a practitioner.

The following curious story, written down by

his daughter, Violetta, in her old age, shows

his repute as a physician. A gentleman in

the last stage of consumption came to Dr.

Darwin at Derby, and expressed himself to
Ithis effect : " am come from London to con-
" suit you, as the greatest physician in the
" world, to hear from you if there is any hope
I"
   in               know   that my life hangs
"                   while  there is life there
   a   my case ;                                upon
       thread, but                              may

   * Miiller's ' Elements of Physiology,' translated by Baly, 1842,

p. 943.
106 LIFE OF

"  be   hope.   It is   of  the utmost importance
"       me to          my   worldly affairs immedi-
   for         settle
I" ately ; therefore
                            trust that you will
" not deceive me, but tell me without hesi-
" tation your candid opinion." Dr. Darwin

felt his pulse, and minutely examined him,

and said he was sorry to say there was no

hope. After a pause of a few minutes the

Igentleman said : " How long can live ? "

The answer was : " Perhaps a fortnight." The

gentleman seized Dr. Darwin's hand and said :

" Thank you, doctor, I thank you; my mind
I" is satisfied ; now know there is no hope for

" me." Dr. Darwin then said : " But as you
" come from London, why did you not consult
" Dr. Warren, so celebrated a physician ? "

I" Alas ! doctor, am Dr. Warren." He died

in a week or two afterwards.

  I remember only two points, with respect

to which my father thought that medical

practice in this country had been influenced

by the ' Zoonomia.' * In this work it is said :
" There is a golden rule by which the neces-

   I* ' Zoonomia,' 1794, vol. i. p. 99.  was led to search for

this passage by its having been given by Dr. Dowson in his

'Erasmus Darwin: Philosopher, Poet, and Physician,' 1861,

p. 46.
               ERASMUS DARWIK.               107

" sary and useful quantity of stimulus in
" fevers with debility may be ascertained.
" When wine or beer is exhibited, either
" alone or diluted with water, if the pulse
" becomes slower the stimulus is of a proper
"
"  quantity,   and should be repeated every two
   or three    hours, or when the pulse again
" becomes quicker."
                             The value of this
" golden rule" will be appreciated when it

is remembered that the high importance of
stimulants in fever has only rather recently
been recognised and acted on. His views

on fever certainly attracted attention at the
       *
time      but  the  use  of  stimulants  in  such
      ;

cases has fluctuated much, and the history

Iof the subject is an obscure one, as infer

from a letter which Sir Eobert Christison

has had the kindness to send me.

   The second point mentioned by my father,

was the treatment of the insane. After say

ing f that no lunatic should be restrained

unless he be dangerous, Dr. Darwin urges
that in some cases " confinement retards

   * See, for instance, Dr. Baeta's work, ' Comparative View of
the Theories and Practice of Drs. Cullen, Brown, and Darwin' :
published in 1800.

  t ' Zoouomia,' vol. ii. 1796, p. 352.
108 LIFE OP

" rather than promotes their cure, which is
" forwarded by change of ideas, &c." He

then remarks that mistaken ideas do not by

themselves justify confinement, and adds :
If" everyone who possesses mistaken ideas,
" or who puts false estimates on things, was
I" liable to confinement,
                           know not who of
" my readers might not tremble at the sight
" of a madhouse."

In connection with this subject, the follow

ing quotation from Dr. Maudsley is interest
ing : * " Here I may fitly take occasion to

" adduce certain observations with regard
" to the striking manner in which diseased
" action of one nervous centre is sometimes
" transferred suddenly to another, a fact
" which, though it has lately attracted new
" attention, was long since noticed and com-
" mented on by Dr. Darwin : ' In some con-
" ' vulsive diseases,' he writes, ' a delirium
" ' or insanity supervenes, and the convul-
" ' sions cease ; and conversely, the convul-
" ' sions shall supervene, and the delirium
I" ' cease. Of this
                     have been a witness

* ' Patholgy of Mind,' 1879, p. 229.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  109

" ' many times a day, in the paroxysms of
" ' violent epileptics, which evinces that one
" ' kind of delirium is a convulsion of the

" ' organs of sense, and that our ideas are
" ' the motions of those organs.' "

   Dr. Lauder Brunton has mentioned to me
another instance in which Dr. Darwin appa

rently anticipated a modern discovery.

   In an article in the ' British Medical Journal '

(1873, p. 735) on "catching cold," Dr. Brun
ton gives an account of Rosenthal's experi
ments, showing that when an animal is
exposed to a rather high temperature, " the
" cutaneous vessels become paralysed by the
" heat, and remain dilated even after cold
" has been applied. The blood is thus ex-
" posed over a large surface, and becomes
" rapidly cooled." For instance, the blood
of an animal thus treated fell from between

107-6° and 111° to 96-8°, and remained at

this lower temperature for several days. A

passage in the Zoonomia * seems to show
that Dr. Darwin was acquainted with the
above important fact, discovered by Rosen
thal some hundred years later.

                   * ' Zoonomia,' vol. ii. 1796, p. 570.
110 LIFE OP

Dr. Darwin fully recognised the truth and

importance of the principle of inheritance in
                        *  "As
disease.  He  remarks           many  families
                       :

" become gradually extinct by hereditary dis-
" eases, as by scrofula, consumption, epilepsy,
" mania, it is often hazardous to marry an
" heiress, as she is not unfrequently the last of
" a diseased family." His grandson, Francis

Gralton, so well known for his works on the

subject of inheritance, would fully appreciate

this remark. On the other hand, when a

tendency to disease is confined to one parent,

Ithe children often escape. " now know,"

as he writes to my father, January 5th, 1792,
" many families who had insanity on one side,
" and the children, now old people, have had

" no symptom of it. If it were otherwise,

" there would not be a family in the king-
" dom without epileptic, gouty, or insane
" people in it."

   In ' The Temple of Nature' (Notes, p. 11),

there is a curious instance of his prophetic
sagacity with respect to " microscopic ani-

" mals." A few years since a utilitarian philo-

   * 'The Temple of Nature/ 1803, notes, p. 45; published

after his death.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  Ill

sopher might have sneered at men spending
their lives in the examination of organisms

far too minute to be seen by the naked eye ;

and it would have been difficult to have

given a satisfactory answer, except on general
principles, to such a man. But we now know
from the researches of various naturalists how

all-important a part these organisms play in
putrefaction, fermentation, infectious diseases,
&c. ; and as a consequence of such researches,
the world owes a deep debt of gratitude to
Mr. Lister for his anti-septic treatment of
wounds. Therefore the following sentence of
my grandfather, considering how little was
then known on the subject, appears to me

Iremarkable. He says : " hope that micro-

" scopic researches may again excite the at-
" tention of philosophers, as unforeseen ad-
" vantages may probably be derived from
" them like the discovery of a new world."

   The ' Phytologia,' was published in 1800.

It begins with a discussion on the nature of

leaf-buds and flower-buds ; and the view, now
universally adopted, that a plant consists of " a
"system of individuals," and not merely of a
multiplication of similar organs, originated
112 LIFE OF

with Darwin, as I infer from Johannes

Miiller's ' Elements of Physiology.'*

     Considering how recently the manner in

which plants modify and absorb the nutriment

stored up in their roots, tubers, cotyledons, &c.

has been understood, the following sentence
                          deserves notice : " The
("'  Phytologia,' p. 77)  the young vegetable,
     digestive powers of
" with the chemical agents of heat and mois-
" ture, convert the starch or mucilage of the
" root or seed into sugar for its own nourish-
" ment ; .
                 and thus it appears pro-
" bable that sugar is the principal nourish-
" ment of both animal and vegetable beings."

     The work treats largely of agriculture and

horticulture, and a section is devoted to phos

phorus, which, as he believes (p. 207), exists

universally in vegetables, a question " which
" has not yet been sufficiently attended to." He

then refers to the use of bones as a manure, but

erred in supposing that shells and some other

substances which are luminous in the dark,

abounded with phosphorus. Sir J. Sinclair,

President of the Board of Agriculture, and

   * ' Elements  of Physiology,'  translated by Baly, 1842,
V. 1421.
   ERASMUS DARWIN.         113

therefore a most capable judge, says that,

though the fertilising properties of bone-dust

had been previously noticed by Hunter, yet
" they were first theoretically explained and
" brought forward with authority by Dr. Dar-
" win." He then remarks, and of the truth
of his remark there can be little doubt, " per-
"
"  haps no (other) modern  discovery has contri-
   buted so powerfully to  improve the fertility
" and to increase the produce of the soil."*

   The following sentences are interesting as

forecasting the progress of modern thought.

In a discussion on " The Happiness of Or

ganic Life " (p. 556), after remarking that
animals devour vegetables, he says : " The
" stronger locomotive animals devour the
" weaker ones without mercy. Such is the
" condition of organic nature ! whose first law
" might be expressed in the words, ' eat or be-

" eaten,' and which would seem to be one
" great slaughter-house, one universal scene
" of rapacity and injustice." He proceeds:
" Where shall we find a benevolent idea to
" console us amid so much apparent misery ?"

  I* am indebted to Dr. Dowson's ' Life of Erasmus Darwin,'
J.for the reference to the ' Life and Works of Sir Sinclair.'

                                                       I
114 LIFE OF

He then argues : " Beasts of prey more easily
" catch and conquer the aged and infirm, and
" the young ones are defended by their
" parents
                    By this contrivance more
.... ...." pleasurable sensation exists in the world
" old organisations are transmigrated
" into young ones
                                 death cannot so
" properly be called positive evil as the ter-
" mination of good." There is much more of

the same kind, and hardly more relevant.

He then makes a great leap in his argument,

and concludes that all the strata of the world
" are monuments of the past felicity of organ-
" ised nature ! and consequently of the bene-
"                           "
   volence  of the  Deity
                           !

   It is a curious proof of the degree to which

English botanists had been blinded by the

splendour of the fame of Linnaeus, that Dr.

Darwin apparently had never heard of Jussieu,
Iffor he

" great
   writes (p.                 "    the system of the
    Linngeus                     be intrinsically im-
                     564) :
                    can ever
I" proved, am persuaded that the plan here
" proposed of using the situations, propor-
" tions, or forms, with or without the number
" of the sexual organs, as criterions of the
" orders and classes, must lay the foundation ;
ERASMUS DARWIN.  115

" but that it must require a great architect
" to erect the superstructure." He therefore

did not know that a noble superstructure had

already been raised.

    There remains only one other book to

be noticed : ' A Plan for the Conduct of

Female Education in Boarding Schools,' pub
lished in 1797. This is a short treatise which

seems never to have received much attention

in England, though it was translated into
German. It is strongly characterised by plain
common sense, with little theorising, and is
throughout benevolent. He insists that

punishment should be avoided as much as

possible, and that reproof should be given
with kindness. Emulation, though useful, is
dangerous, from being liable to degenerate

Ifinto envy. " once you can communicate

" to children a love of credit and an appre-
" hension of shame, you have instilled into
" them a principle, which will constantly act
" and incline them to do right, though it is
" not the true source whence our actions
" ought to spring, which should be from our
" duty to others and ourselves." He urges
that sympathy with the pains and pleasures

                                     I. 2
116 LIFE OF

of others is the foundation of all our social

virtues ; and that this can best be inculcated

by example and the expression of our own
...sympathy. " Compassion, or sympathy with
" the pains of others, ought also to extend to
" the brute creation
                               to destroy even
" insects wantonly, shows an unreflecting
" mind, or a depraved heart."

He considers it of great importance to girls

that they should learn to judge of character,

as they will some day have to choose a hus

band ; and he believes that reading proper

novels teaches them something of life and

mankind, and helps them to avoid mistakes

in judging of character. He also remarks

more than once, that children express various
emotions in their countenances much more

plainly than older persons ; and he is con
vinced that one great advantage which a child

derives from going to school is in uncon
sciously acquiring a knowledge of physi

ognomy through mixing with other children.

This knowledge, " by giving a promptitude

" of understanding the present approbation
" or dislike, and the good or bad designs of
" those whom we converse with, becomes of
ERASMUS DARWIN.  117

" hourly use in almost any department of
" life."

   He was much in advance of his age in his
ideas as to sanitary arrangements -- such as
supplying towns with pure water, having
holes made into crowded sitting and bed
rooms for the constant admission of fresh air,

and not allowing chimneys to be closed during

summer, and as to diet and exercise. ITe

speaks of " skating on the ice in winter,
" swimming in summer, funambulation or
" dancing on the straight rope," as "not
" allowed to ladies by the fashion of this age

" and country." It is a pity he does not tell

us when and where it was the fashion of
young ladies to funambulate ! With respect

to swimming, he disregarded fashion, and had
his own daughters as well as his sons taught
to swim at a very early age, so that they
became, it is said, expert swimmers as early

as four years old. In the ' Phytologia ' he

shows himself still more clearly a great
sanitary reformer. He insists that the sewage
from towns, which is now left buried or

carried into the rivers, should be removed for
the purpose of agriculture ; " and thus the
   118 LIFE OP

  " purity and healthiness of the towns may
  " contribute to the thriftiness and wealth of
  " the surrounding country." " There should
  " be no burial places in churches or in church-
  " yards, where the monuments of departed
  " sinners shoulder God's altar, . . . but

  " proper burial grounds should be consecrated
  " out of towns." Nearly a century has
  elapsed since this good advice was given,

  and it has as yet only partially been carried

  out.

     One of the subjects which interested Dr.
  Darwin most throughout his whole life, and
  which appears little in his published works, was
  mechanical invention. This is shown in his
  letters to Josiah Wedgwood, Edgeworth, and
  others, and in a huge common-place book full
  of sketches and suggestions about machines.
  He seems, however, rarely to have completed
  anything, with the exception of a horizontal
. windmill for grinding flints, which he de

  signed for Wedgwood, and which answered
  its purpose. There are schemes and sketches
  for an improved lamp, like our present
  moderators ; candlesticks with telescope stands
ERASMUS DARWIN-.  119

so as to be raised at pleasure to any required
height ; a manifold writer ; a knitting loom for

stockings ; a weighing machine ; a surveying
machine ; a flying bird, with an ingenious
escapement for the movement of the wings,
and he suggests gunpowder or compressed air
as the motive power. He also gives a plan of
a canal lock, on the principle of the boat being
floated into a large box, the door of which is
then closed, and the box afterwards raised or
lowered. This principle has since been acted

on under certain circumstances, but by an

improved method. A rotatory pump was

also one of his schemes, and this, under a

modified form, is extensively used for blowing
air into smelting cupolas, and for pumping
water in certain cases. He saw clearly, as he
explains in 1756 in a letter to Reimarus, that

it would be a great advantage if the spokes of

J.carriage wheels acted as springs ; and Sir

Whitworth has recently had a carriage con
structed with such wheels, which is remark

ably smooth.

   Another invention was a small carriage of

peculiar construction, intended to give the
best effect to the power of the horse, combined
120 LIFE OP

"with the greatest ease in turning.                         It was
" a platform," says Miss Seward, " with a
" seat fixed upon a very high pair of wheels,
" and supported in the front upon the back
" of the horse, by means of a kind of pro-
" boscis, which, forming an arch, reached over
" the hind quarters of the horse ; and passed
" through a ring, placed on an upright piece
" of iron, which worked in a socket, fixed in
" the saddle."* But however correct this

carriage may have been in principle, Darwin

had the misfortune, in the year 1768, to be

            it,

                                        a
                                                   a
upset in when he broke his knee-cap and

ever afterwards limped little.

  A speaking machine was favourite idea,

and for this end he invented a phonetic alpha
bet. His machine, or " head, pronounced the
" p, m, and the vowel a, with so great
" nicety as to deceive all who heard unseen,b,
                                                      ' it
      it
" when pronounced the words mama, papa,
" map, and pam and
                                      had a most plain-
            ;

                      it

                                        a
   Dr. Krause informs me " that the Moravian engineer, Theodo
   *

         I
" Tomatschek, has lately constructed       very similar carriage,
" which sav at the Vienna International Exhibition; and the
"
"  Americans have also reduced    the Darwinian idea to practice,
   and given the new vehicle the  paradoxical name Equibus.' "
                                     ERASMUS DARWIX.                                                121

" tive tone, when the lips were gradually:
" closed."* Edgeworth also bears witness to
the capacity of this speaking head. Matthew    it,

Boulton entered into the following agreement,
which, from the witnesses to was evidently
made at one of the meetings of the famous
Lunar Club but whether in joke or earnest,

       difficult to conjecture
it
         promise to pay to Dr. Darwin of Lichfield
    is

     I

               2

                                  ;
one thousand pounds upon his delivering to me

(within  years from date hereof) an Instrument

called an organ that capable of pronouncing the
                                     is

Lord's Prayer, the Creed, and Ten Commandments

in the Vulgar Tongue, and his ceding to me, and me

only, the property of the said invention with all the

advantages thereunto appertaining.

                                           M. Boulton

                                     Soho Sep. 3rd 1877

                                     Witness, James Keir
                                     Witness, W. Small
*
  '
                                  '

                                        a

                                                                                                 ;

                                                                     p.

                                                                      q
   In the last century speaking tube was an
unknown invention in country districts, and

Temple of Nature,' notes, p. 120                      107 on the phonetic

alphabet. See also Memoirs of Edgeworth,' vol. ii. p. 178.
  122 LIFE OP

 Dr. Darwin had one for his study, which
 opened near the back of the kitchen fire

 place. A countryman had brought a letter

 and sat waiting for an answer by this fire,
 which had become very low, when suddenly

he heard a sepulchral voice, saying, as if

from the depths of the expiring fire, " I want

 " some coals." The man instantly fled from
the house, for my grandfather had the repu
tation amongst the country folk of being a
 sort of magician.

   At a time (1783) when very few artesian

wells had been made in this country, Dr.
Darwin made one, though on a small scale ;

and in the garden-wall to his house in Full

Street, Derby, there still exists an iron plate
with the following inscription :

                TERREBELLO EDUXIT AQUAM
                       ANNO MDCCLXXXIII.
                           ERASMUS DARWIN.

                     LABITCR ET LABETUR.

   This case would not have been worth men
tioning had he not shown in his paper,* in

              * ' Philosophical Transact.' 1785, part i. p. 1.
                ERASMUS DARWIN".         123

which this well is described, that he recog

nHiseedremthaerkstrutehatpri"nscoipmlee   of artesian wells.
                                         of the more interior
" strata of the earth are exposed naked on
" the tops of mountains ; and that in general,
" those strata which lie uppermost, or nearest
" to the summit of the mountain, are the
" lowest in the contiguous plains." He then
adds that the waters " sliding between two
" of the strata above described, descend till
" they find or make for themselves an outlet,
" and will in consequence rise to a level
" with the parts of the mountain where they
" originated."

In Oct. 1771 he wrote several letters to

Wedgwood about a scheme of making, with

his own capital, a canal of very small dimen

sions from the Grand Trunk to Lichfield, for

boats drawing only a foot of water, to be

dragged by a man, and carrying only four or

five tons burthen. Such a canal would have

borne the same relation to ordinary canals, as

some very narrow railways, which have been

found to answer well in Wales, bear to ordinary

railways. He seems to have been greatly
124 LIFE OF

interested in this project, which, however,

never came to anything.

The weather, and the course of the winds

throughout the world, was another subject on

which he was continually searching for infor
Imation and speculating.
                          have heard my

father say, that in order to notice every

change of the wind he connected a wind-vane

on the top of his house with a dial on the

ceiling of his study.

   There remains only to be said that Erasmus
Darwin died at Breadsall Priory, near Derby,

on Sunday morning, April 18th, 1802, in his

seventy-first year. A week previously he had
been ill for a few days, but had recovered.

On the 17th, whilst walking in his garden
with a lady, he told her that he did not expect

to live long. At night he was as cheerful as

usual. On the following morning, the 18th,
he rose at six o'clock and wrote a long
letter to Mr. Edgeworth* which he did not
live to finish, and which contains the follow
ing description of the Priory, where he had

     * R. L. Edgeworth's ' Memoirs,' 2nd ed., vol. ii. p. 242.
ERASMUS DARWIN.                               125

Breadsaix Priory, where Erasmus Darwin died.
126 LIFE OP                                      1

been living for about two years : " We have
" a pleasant house, a good garden, ponds full
" of fish, and a pleasing valley somewhat like
" Shenstone's --deep, umbrageous, and with a
" talkative stream running down it. Our
" house is near the top of the valley, well
" screened by hills from the east and north,
" and open to the south, where, at four miles
" distance, we see Derby tower." At about

seven o'clock he was seized with a violent
shivering fit, and went into the kitchen to
warm himself; he returned to his study, lay
on the sofa, became faint and cold, and was
moved into an arm-chair, where without pain
or emotion of any kind he expired a little
before nine o'clock.

  A few years before he had written to Edge-

Iworth : " When think of dying, it is always

without pain or fear ;" but he had often ex
pressed a strong hope that his end might be

painless, and so it proved. His medical attend
ants differed about the cause of his death, but
my father did not doubt that it was an affec
tion of the heart. Many years afterwards his

widow showed me the sofa and chair, still
preserved in the same place, where he had lain
ERASMUS DARWIN.                                    127

and expired. He was buried in Breadsall
Church.

          ERASMUS DARWIN, M.D., F.R.S.

   Born at Elston, near Newark, 12th Dee., 1731.
Died at the Priory, near Derby, 10th April, 1802.

                Of the rare union of Talents
        which so eminently distinguished him
    as a Physician, a Poet and Philosopher

                      His writings remain
            a public and unfading testimony.

                          His Widow
                 has erected this monument

                           in memory of
     the zealous benevolence of his disposition,

        the active humanity of his conduct,

              and the many private virtues
               which adorned his character.
           THE SCIENTIFIC WOKKS

                                                    09

ERASMUS DARWIN.

                 By EENST KEAUSE.

      TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY W. S. DALLAS, F.L.S.

                                                                     K
   On the second page of the later editions of
Darwin's ' Origin of Species ' * we find the

following brief observation :--" It is curious

how largely my grandfather, Dr. Erasmus
Darwin, anticipated the views and erroneous
grounds of opinion of Lamarck in his ' Zoo-
nomia' (vol. i. pp. 500-510), published in
1794." Being quite aware of the reticence
and modesty with which the author expresses

Ihimself, especially in speaking pro domo,

thought immediately that here we ought tQ
read between the lines, and that this ancestor

of his must certainly deserve considerable
credit in connection with the history of the

Darwinian theory. As no light was to be

 obtained upon this subject from German

Iliterature procured the works of Erasmus

 Darwin, and have found singular pleasure in

 their study.

   I was speedily convinced that this man,

-* Sixtl) edition, p. xiv. note.

                                  K2
132 LIFE OF

equally eminent as philanthropist, physician,
naturalist, philosopher, and poet, is far less
known and valued by posterity than he
deserves, in comparison with other persons

who occupy a similar rank. It is true that
what is perhaps the most important of his

many-sided endowments, namely his broad
view of the philosophy of nature, was not
intelligible to his contemporaries ; it is only
now, after the lapse of a hundred years, that
by the labours of one of his descendants we
are in a position to estimate at its true value
the wonderful perceptivity, amounting almost
to divination, that he displayed in the domain

of biology. For in him we find the same in
defatigable spirit of research, and almost the

same biological tendency, as in his grandson ;
and we might, not without justice, assert that
the latter has succeeded to an intellectual

inheritance, and carried out a programme
sketched forth and left behind by his grand

father.
   Almost every single work of the younger

Darwin may be paralleled by at least a
chapter in the works of his ancestor; the
mvstery of heredity, adaptation, the pro
ERASMUS DARWIN.  133

tective arrangements of animals and plants,
sexual selection, insectivorous plants, and
the analysis of the emotions and sociological
impulses ; nay, even the studies on infants are
to be found already discussed in the writings
of the elder Darwin. But at the same time
we remark a material difference in their inter

pretation of nature. The elder Darwin was a
Lamarckian, or, more properly, Jean Lamarck
was a Darwinian of the older school, for

he has only carried out further the ideas

of Erasmus Darwin, although with great
acumen ; and it is to Darwin therefore that

the credit is due of having first established a
complete system of the theory of evolution.

IThe evidence of this shall adduce hereafter.

   The unusual circumstance that a grand
father should be the intellectual precursor of
his grandson in questions which now-a-days
more than any others move the minds of men,
must of itself suffice to excite the liveliest
interest. But at the same time it must be

pointed out that in this fact we have not

the smallest ground for depreciating the
labours of the man who has shed a new

lustre upon the name of his grandfather. It
134 LIFE OF

is one thing' to establish hypotheses and

theories out of the fulness of one's fancy,

even when supported by a very considerable
knowledge of nature, and another to demon

strate them by an enormous number of facts,

and carry them to such a. degree of probability

as to satisfy those most capable of judging.

Dr. Erasmus Darwin could not satisfy his
contemporaries with his physio-philosophical

ideas; he was a century ahead of tliem, and

was in consequence obliged to put up with

seeing people shrug their shoulders when

they  tshpeokeexporfeshsiiosnwi"ldDaanrwd ineicscinengtr"ic  fancies,
and                                                          (as em

ployed for example by the poet Coleridge

when writing on Stillingfleet) was accepted
in England nearly as the antithesis of sober

biological investigation.*

   The many-sidedness of his endowments also
injured his fame in another direction. The
physicians reproached him with being a

philosopher ; and the philosophers thought
themselves justified in complaining that he

was of far too poetical and fanciful a con

stitution ; the poets and literati on the other

      * See ' Athenasum,' March, 1875, p. 423.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  135

hand objected to his position as a physician
and his scientific tendencies ; and thus partiality
and prejudice prevented his judges from a
full and complete recognition of the value of

the man. His life and labours have frequently

been described, but always by either litterateurs
or medical men, and hence the picture pro

duced has always had a partizan colouring.
   Nevertheless it is gratifying to find that

each of his biographers has expressed the
highest appreciation of precisely that side of
the doctor's activity of which he was most
capable of judging. The literati formerly ex
tolled his poetical merits. Eighteen years
ago an English physician praised his medical
contributions; and it has remained for the
present writer to add to these the hitherto
neglected tribute of recognition* which is due
to him on the part of natural history and

physio-philosophy.

   It is characteristic of this distinguished

man that he never exhibited those fluctuating
opinions with respect to the evolution of
organic beings which are evident in the
works of Linnaeus and Buffon.

                  * See ' Kosmos,' February, 1879, p. 393.
136 LIFE OF

   When Go the, in the year 1786, penetrated
by the thought that a common organization
must bind together the higher animals, de
monstrated the existence of the intermaxillary

bone in man, the supposed absence of which
had been regarded as a character clearly

separating man from animals, no anatomist
would agree with him ; his idea of vegetable
metamorphosis, which he brought forth about
the same time, was strenuously opposed by the
botanists; and his discovery in 1790 of the
vertebral nature of the skull has only met
with justice in our own days. Exactly similar
was the fate of Dr. Darwin, who, as we shall
show, was far in advance of his age. Exceed
ingly successful in grasping and combining

separated things, Grothe absolutely detested
the analytical activity of the exact investigator,
although he availed himself of and indeed
exercised himself in procuring the materials
for his new conception of the world. Dr.
Darwin had no such aversion to the analytical
activity of the philosophers and specialists,
and hence he carried his construction further
than any of his predecessors and contem
poraries. The similarity of the conceptions
it

                                    it,
ERASMUS DARWIN.  137

of the universe of the two poets is in many
respects as great as their need to give utter

ance to them in verse ; but this agreement

may be easily explained if we consider that

both of them started from the investigations
of the same precursors, Buffon and Linnaeus.

   The first great work of Darwin, the didactic
poem ' The Botanic Garden,' is divided into

two parts, which are not very closely con

Inected ; for this reason shall hereafter cite the

second part, ' The Loves of the Plants,' which

appeared before the first, under the above

special title* The first part, ' The Economy
of Vegetation,' certainly answers to both the
principal and special titles only in its last

canto, the first three cantos describing the

action of the forces of nature in general, and

specially the formation of the world. Various
critics have expressed the opinion that Dr.
Darwin's didactic poem was an imitation of
one which appeared anonymously in London
in 1735 under the title of ' Universal Beauty,'

the author of which afterwards turned out to

    * The following citations refer throughout to the second edi

tions, both of the first part ('The Economy of Vegetation,'
London, Johnson, 1791) and of the second (' The Loves of the

Plants,' London, Nichols, 1790).
138 LIFE OP

be the poet Henry Brooke. Others have re
presented Sir Richard Blackmore's poem, ' The
Creation,' which appeared in 1712, as the
model.* Neither statement has the slightest
foundation. Henry Brooke's ' Universal
Beauty ' is a " Physico-theology " in verse,
which, although decidedly more sonorous and
poetical than the offspring of the similarly
employed muse of his German namesake
(Heinrich Brookes), is merely devoted to a
representation of the glories of creation of
the same character as the physico-theologies of
that period. Blackmore's 'Creation,' which,
from its being divided into seven books, people
have been led to regard as belonging to the
Diluvianistic literature, treats of the process of
creation only by the way ; and is essentially a
purely poleraico-rhetorical philippic against the
atheists, from Democritus and Epicurus down
to Descartes and Spinoza, in which we find so
little sound judgment and insight that the
author can by no means make up his mind

   * The suggestion that Dr. Darwin may have made use of
Brooke's ' Universal Beauty' as his pattern, seems to have first

appeared in a critical article in the ' Edinburgh Review ' (April,

1803, 4th ed. p. 491), but has since passed, as a demonstrated fact,
into later biographical works, e.g., the ' Biographie Universelle.'
            ERASMUS DARWIX.                 139

whether he shall decide in favour of Aristotle

a,ndr Ptolemy, or of Copernicus, Kepler, and

Newton. The Grerman critics who regard

Blackmore's poem as the model of Darwin's
' Botanic Garden' must certainly have

neglected to · read at least one of these

didactic poems. Blackmore's work might

much rather be regarded as the pattern for

Polignac's ' Anti Lucretium,' although it is far

exceeded by the latter in dialectic acuteness.

In the introduction and apology to the
' Botanic Garden ' the author says : " The
" general design of the following sheets is to
" inlist Imagination under the banner of
" Science ; and to lead her votaries from the
" looser analogies which dress out the imagery
" of poetry, to the stricter ones, which form
"                                               It

..."                                        many
the  ratiocination of philosophy.      for
may  be proper here to apologize
" of the
             subsequent conjectures     on   some
" articles                             not
            of natural philosophy, as       being
" supported by accurate investigation or con-
" elusive experiments. Extravagant theories,
" however, in those parts of philosophy, where
" our knowledge is yet imperfect, are not
" without their use ; as they encourage the
140 LIFE OF

" execution of laborious experiments, or the
" investigation of ingenious deductions, to
" confirm or refute them."

   The plan of the poem was to a certain
extent prescribed by those initial verses of
Miss Seward's, which the author placed at the
commencement of his work, either out of
gallantry or in acknowledgment of their
having given the first inducement to the
production of the poem. Starting from the
fundamental idea that the mythology of the

ancients glorified the forces and government
of nature in the persons of their deities,

he has introduced the personified forces of
nature which prevail in fire, air, water, and

earth ; and then represents the goddess as

addressing herself to the different groups of

elementary spirits, in a figurative discourse,
permeated throughout with mythological ele

ments, and describing the part taken by each

in the formation and life of the world. Thus
the first canto is addressed to the " nymphs of

primeval fire," and he accordingly describes

the production of the universe from this

source, at the same time bringing together

many of the ordinary phenomenal forms of
                ERASMUS DARWIN*.         141

fire, heat, and light. Matters which can only

be slightly touched upon in the verses are

further elaborated, partly in short footnotes

and partly in more detailed memoirs (addi
tional notes) which are relegated to the end

of the volume. It is to these notes that our

attention must principally be directed.

   We are especially interested in a note to

verse 101 of the first canto, in which the

author unfolds the idea and the first scheme
of the theory of evolution. He says : " From
" having observed the gradual evolution of the
" young animal or plant from its egg or seed ;

" and afterwards its successive advances to its
" more perfect state, or maturity; philosophers
"
   of all ages  seem to have imagined that the
"  great world  itself had likewise its infancy and

" its gradual progress to maturity ; this seems
" to have given origin to the very antient
" and sublime allegory of Eros, or Divine love,
" producing the world from the egg of Night,
" as it floated in chaos." To the second

particularly important part of this note we

shall have to refer hereafter.

   For the student of the history of civilization

who looks back from a Darwinistic standpoint,
142 LIFE OF

a fancy worked out in this canto as to the
discovery and subjugation of fire, which
Darwin denominates "the first art," will be

particularly interesting.

   " Nymphs ! your soft smiles uncultur'd man subdued,
      And charm'd the Savage from his native wood ;
      You, while amaz'd his hurrying Hords retire
      From the fell havoc of devouring Fire,
      Taught, the first Art ! with piny rods to raise
      By quick attrition the domestic blaze,
      Fan with soft breath, with kindling leaves provide,
      And list the dread Destroyer on his side.
      So, with bright wreath of serpent-tresses crown'd,
      Severe in beauty, young Medusa frown'd ;
      Erewhile subdued, round Wisdom's JSgis roll'd,
      Hiss'd the dread snakes, and flam'd in burnish'd gold ;
      Flash'd on her brandish'd arm the immortal shield,
      And Terror lighten'd o'er the dazzled field." *

   We then have the well-known verses on
the power of stearn, vv. 289-296.

   " Soon shall thy arm, Unconquer'd Steam, afar
      Drag the slow barge, or drive the rapid car ;
      Or on wide-waving wings expanded bear
      The flying-chariot through the fields of air.
             Fair crews, triumphant, leaning from above,
      Shall wave their flutt'ring kerchiefs as they move ;
      Or warrior-bands alarm the gaping crowd,
    . And armies shrink beneath the shadowy cloud.

           * ' Economy of Vegetation,' canto i. vv. 209-222.
              ERASMUS DARWIN*.                                 143

   So mighty Hercules o'er many a clime * '                    ;
   Waved his vast mace in Virtue's cause sublime,
   Unmeasured strength with early art combined,                -<
   Awed, served, protected, and amazed mankind."

                                                                                                                                         i

   The second canto is addressed to the gnomes

or earth-spirits, and describes the gradual

development of the earth, which, with the other

planets, the author believes to have been cast

forth from a volcano in the sun. By stronger

friction or adhesion to one wall of this volcano

the earth received its axial revolution and

spheroidal form ; by refrigeration a nucleus

was formed, upon which the waters were

precipitated as a primeval ocean free from

salt, while the lighter gases formed the atmor
sphere. " It is probable," he adds, " that - all
"
   the  calcareous earth in the world . . . . .,,
"  was  formed originally by animal and vege-

" table bodies from the mass of water."* By

the lixiviation of the rocks the seas became

salt. Finally the formation of the vegetable

   * It was a favourite notion of Dr. Darwin's that all the lime

of the earth originated from living creatures, corals, shells, and

other animals, and therefore must have taken part in the plea

sures and pains of life. The limestone mountains of England

appeared to him as "mighty monuments of past delight." It

was probably in consequence of this idea, and in allusion to hjs

family arms,  "coEnsciostninchgis  of three  scallop  shells,  that he altered
his motto to                       omnia."
144 LIFE OP

world is indicated, to which may be added

here from the second part (pp. 36 and 44)
that Darwin regarded lichens as the oldest

terrestrial plants, and, like Hackel in more

recent times, he referred the fungi to a

kingdom which, like " a narrow isthmus,"

united plants and animals.

   In the third canto, addressed to the water-

nymphs, the circulation and action of water

upon the earth is described. The formation

of clouds, the sea and its life, springs, rivers,

geysers, glaciers, coral structures, &c. In this

connection the fossil marine animals also come

under discussion; and after mentioning the

singular circumstance that most fossil marine

animals as, for example, the ammonites, are

no longer found living, whilst the living

animals do not occur in the fossil state, the
author raises the questions, " Were all the
"
"  ammonite     destroyed   when the    continents
   were raised             some genera
                ? Or do                 of animals
" perish by the increasing power of their
" enemies ? Or do they still reside at in-
" accessible depths in the sea ? Or do some
" animals change their forms gradually and
" become new genera ?"*

   * ' The Economy of Vegetation,' p. 120.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  145

   The question of the transformation of species
and their development into higher forms was
a favourite one with the elder Darwin, and
one to which he has given expression in all
his works, at least in one place, and usually
in very similar terms. Already, in the eighth
page of the poem now under consideration, he
brings it forward, and after having spoken
of the stratified formation of the earth in a

note, the commencement of which has already
been given, he says : " There are likewise
" some apparently useless or incomplete
" appendages to plants and animals which
" seem to shew they have gradually under-
" gone changes from their original state ; such
" as the stamens without anthers, and styles
" without stigmas of several plants, as men-
" tioned in the note on Curcuma, vol. ii. of
" this work. Such as the halteres, or rudi-
" ments of wings of some two-winged insects,
" and the paps of male animals ; thus swine
" have four toes, but two of them are im-

" perfectly formed, and not long enough for
" use." We here break off in order to append

the above-mentioned note on the Turmeric

                                                                L
146 LIFE OP

plant, which gives the theory of rudimentary
organs still more completely. " There is a
" curious circumstance," he says, " belonging
" to the class of insects which have two wings,
" or diptera, analogous to the rudiments of
" stamens above described ; viz. two little
" knobs are found placed each on a stalk or
" peduncle, generally under a little arched

  scale ; which appear to be rudiments of
" hinder wings ; and are called by Linneus
" halteres, or poisers, a term of his introduc-
" tion. Other animals have marks of having
" in a long process of time undergone changes

"in some parts of their bodies, which may

" have been effected to accommodate them to
" new ways of procuring their food. The
" existence of teats on the breasts of male
" animals, and which are generally replete
" with a thin kind of milk at their nativity, is
" a wonderful instance of this kind. Perhaps
" all the productions of nature are in their

" progress to greater perfection ?--an idea

" countenanced by the modern discoveries
" and deductions concerning the progressive

" formation of the solid parts of the ter-
   ERASMUS DARWIN".                         147

- " raqueous globe, and consonant to the dignity

w of the Creator of all things."*

   Buffon before him had regarded the rudi
mentary organs somewhat in the same way,

but he had by no means perceived with equal

clearness their part as evidence in favour

of the theory of descent. The pig, says
Buffon, rather mysteriously, " does not appear
"
   to have been formed        upon   an original,
"  special and perfect plan,  since  it is a com-

" pound of other animals ; it has evidently
" useless parts, or rather parts of which it
" cannot make any use, -- toes, all the bones
" of which are perfectly formed, and which
" nevertheless are of no service to it. Nature
" is consequently far from subjecting herself
" to final causes in the formation of her
" creatures. Why should she not sometimes
" add superfluous parts, when she so often
" seems to omit essential ones ? . . . . Why
" do we regard it as necessary that in each
" individual every part should be useful to
" the others and necessary to the whole ?
" Does it not suffice for their co-existence that
" they do not injure one another, that they

   * ' Loves of the Plants,' pp. 7, 8.

                                        L2
148 LIFE OP

" can grow without hindrance, and develope
" without obliterating each other ? All parts
" which do not sufficiently injure one another
" to cause mutual destruction, all that can
" exist together, exist ; and perhaps in the
" majority of living creatures there are fewer
" related, useful or necessary, than indifferent,

" useless or superfluous parts. But we, always
" wishing to refer everything to a certain
" purpose, when parts have no apparent use,
"
   invent   for them    hidden purposes and
"  imagine   unfounded  relations which do not

" exist in the nature of things, and only serve
" to obscure matters. We fail to see that
" thus we deprive philosophy of its true
" character, and misrepresent its object, which
" consists in the knowledge of the ' How ' of
" things, the way in which nature acts, and
" that we substitute for this real object a vain
" idea by seeking to divine the · Why ' of
" the facts, or the purpose which she has in
" her activity." *

   Buffon had a dim idea that rudimentary

organs and similar irregularities found their

explanation in the consideration of the general

   * ' Hist. Nat.' tome v. 1755, pp. 103, 104.
ERASMCS DARWIN".  149

connection of natural objects; he indicated
that doubtful species, irregular structures, and
anomalous existences found their place in the
eternal order of things, as well as all others,
and that they complete the links of the chain ;
but he has not expressed his opinion upon
these points with any distinctness, like Dr.
Darwin. The chief force of the above words

is evidently directed against the physico-

theologians.

    The last century was a period of the most
 industrious and endless search after design.

 In opposition to the French philosophy,

 with its materialistic tendency, innumerable

 hosts of pious writers came forward in Eng
 land, Holland, and especially in Germany,
 and undertook to prove the divine origin
 of all things from the study of nature itself,

 and indeed, from every straw and sand-
 grain. Following on the two best works of
 this kind, namely, Swammerdamm's 1 Biblia

 Naturae,' and John Ray's ' The Wisdom of
 God Manifested in Creation' (1691), there

 poured forth upon the people such a flood
 of writings upon natural theology that a
  book would be required to give a toler
150 LIFE OF

--able review only of the chief of them :

Neheraiah Grew's 'Cosmologia Sacra' (1711)y

and Derham's ' Astro-,' Physico-,' Hydro-' and
' Pyro-theology ' were occupied more with
general questions, but in Germany, on this

field favoured by the Leibnitz- Wolfian philo

sophy, the minutest details were gone into.

A shallow, sickly enthusiasm, which was

called " natural religion," gained the upper

hand ; the whole world appeared only to

exist for the service, pleasure and edification
of man. Lesser's ' Litho-theologie ' (1735)
and Eohr's ' Phyto-theologie ' (1739) were
followed, going more into detail, by Lesser's
' Insecto-theologie ' (1738), and the same

learned pastor's ' Testaceo-theologie,' Zorn's
' Petino-theologie ' (1742) and two ' Ichthyo-
theologies' by Malm and Richter (1751 and

1752). Gradually even the individual species
of animals took their turn, e.g., the bees in
Schierach's ' Melitto-theologie ' (1767); nay,

even such natural phenomena of very doubt

ful benefit as swarms of locusts and earth

quakes were rendered harmless in Rathleff's
voluminous ' Acrido-theologie ' (1748) and
                           '
Pren's  ' Sismo-theologie             That Hein-
                             (1772).
ERASMUS DARWIN.  151

sius celebrated " Snow as an admirable crea
ture of God " in his ' Chiono-theologie '
(1735), and Ahlwardt did the same good
service to thunder and lightning in his
' Bronto-theologie ' (1745) was only right and
proper.

    Buffon could not escape from this tendency

of his time, and in the first volume of his
' Natural History ' he devoted a long justifica

tory chapter to the mountains which Burnet
had charged with being evidences of the Fall
 of Man. Eeuerlin, however, had preceded
him with a Latin Dissertation on the moun

 tains as divine witnesses (1729) in opposition
 to Lucretius and Burnet.*

    Against this movement, to which Brooke's

 poem already mentioned also pertains, the
 elder Darwin opposed himself, not indeed

 expressly, but for that very reason the more
 efficaciously. He did not inquire how far
 this or that property of plants or animals

 was directly or indirectly serviceable to man,

 but rather whether particular properties

   * This enumeration of physico-theological writings is derived
from the elaborate work of G. Zbckler, ' Geschichte der Bezie-
hungen zwischen Theologie und Naturwissenschaft,' Gutersloh,

18T7-79.
152 LIFE OF

were not useful to the organisms themselves,
and whether it was conceivable that they
could have acquired such properties as
favoured their well-being by an internal im

pulse and gradual improvement. For a time

he seems to have addressed to every creature
that came before him, some such apparently

curious questions as these : Why does any

creature have this and no other appearance ?

Why has this plant poisonous juices ? Why
has that one spines ? Why have birds and

fishes light-coloured breasts and dark backs ?

&c., &c. The last canto of the first part of

the 'Botanic Garden,' and the second part
generally, are particularly rich in such
justly-raised and truly Darwinistic questions.
We shall have to recur to this point here
after, and now, after this digression, return
once more to the analysis of the ' Botanic
Garden.'

   In the fourth canto, addressed to the

sylphs, after some descriptions of winds and
climates, the author turns to the daughters of
the air, the plants, and describes their
economy, in the course of which a great
number of exceedingly modern remarks are
ERASMUS DARWIN.  153

anticipated. In a note to verse 411 (p. 194)
the digestion of the reserve material iu
the seed-lobes during germination is de

scribed as a process perfectly analogous to
animal digestion, and for some years we have
been aware that this comparison is justified
even in its details ; but above all, in the
second part, in which plants are arranged
in accordance with the sexual system, and
their several relations especially described in
separate pictures, that theme of the protec
tion of plants from unbidden guests, which
Kerner three years ago made the subject of

an interesting book,* is referred to.
    Here we learn in the first place that the

waxy and resinous secretions of the green
parts serve as protections against cold and
moisture ; and that essential oils, strong

odours, and poisons are useful to plants, by
protecting them from marauding insects and
other animals. The root of the meadow

saffron (Colchicum autumnale), which does not
ripen its seeds until the following spring,
would be in danger of destruction in winter

    * 'Die Schutzinittel der BlUthen gegen unberufene Gaste.
 Vienna, 1876.
154 LIFE OF

by animals living in the ground, if it did not

contain so acrid a poison.* This example of

a poisonous bulb is particularly instructive,

because here, in consequence of the seeds

ripening only in the next period of vegeta

tion, the existence of the plant in winter

would be seriously compromised if the bulb

were edible.

The holly {Ilex aquifoliuni) led Dr. Darwin

to specially thoughtful considerations in this
                                          :f " Many
direction  ; he  speaks of it as follows
                   many animals, are       furnished
" plants,  like
" with arms for their protection ; these are
" either aculei, prickles, as in rose and bar-
" berry, which are formed from the outer
" bark of the plant ; or spinas, thorns, as in
" hawthorn, which are an elongation of the
" wood, and hence more difficult to be torn
" off than the former ; or stimuli, stings, as in
" the nettles, which are armed with a venom-
" ous fluid for the annoyance of naked
" animals. The shrubs and trees, which have
" prickles or thorns, are grateful food to
" many animals, as goosberry and gorse ; and

           * ' The Loves of the Plants,' p. 22, note. 

           t Ibid. pp. 18, 19, note.
   ERASMUS DARWIN".                       155

" would be quickly devoured, if not thus

" armed ; the stings seem a protection against
" some kinds of insects, as well as the naked
" mouths of quadrupeds. Many plants lose
" their thorns by cultivation, as wild animals
"
"  lose their ferocity,  and some of   them their
                                       attends the
   horns. A curious      circumstance
" large hollies in Needwood Forest ; they are
'' armed with thorny leaves about eight feet

" high, and have smooth leaves above ; as if
" they were conscious that horses and cattle
" could not reach their upper branches."

   On the other hand, that the plants thus

armed furnish animals with an especially

dainty food is proved by the fondness of the

ass for thistles, and of the horse for furze, of

which the author gives an instructive ex

ample in a book which will be noticed here

after. He says : "In the extensive moorlands

" of Staffordshire the horses have learnt tot
" stamp upon a gorse-bush with one of their
" fore-feet for a minute together, and when
" the points are broken, they eat it without
" injury ; which is an art other horses in
" the fertile parts of the country do not
156 LIFE OF

" possess, and prick their mouths till they
'* bleed, if they are induced by hunger or

" caprice to attempt eating gorse." *
   This observer of nature was particularly

interested in the means possessed by plants
for preventing the crawling up of wingless
insects into the flowers. He explained in
this way the small water-basins which the
leaves form about the stem of the Fuller's
Teasel, and which have recently led to a
remarkable investigation on the part of one
of his descendants,! as also the larger basins
which surround the flower stalks of the

Bromeliacese, as being arrangements destined
partly to the refreshment of the plants, and
partly to serve as a protection for its flowers

and seeds.J A similar protective contrivance

occurs most instructively in the viscous rings
of the catchfly, the description of which
may follow here as a sample of the ' Loves
of the Plants,' with the preliminary remark
that the numbers relate to the stamens and

               * 1 Zoonomia,' vol. i. p. 162, sect. xvi. ii.

             t See ' Kosmos,' i. p. 354.
            t ' The Loves of the Plants.' p. 37.
ERASMUS DARWIN".                                                  157

styles in each of these individual descrip
tions.

" The fell Silene and her sisters fair,

SkilPd in destruction, spread the viscous snare.

The harlot-band ten lofty bravoes screen,

And frowning guard the magic nets, unseen.

Haste, glittering nations, tenants of the air,

Oh, steer from hence your viewless course afar !

If with soft words, sweet blushes, nods, and smiles,

The three dread Syrens lure you to their toils,

Limed by their art in vain you point your stings,

In vain the efforts of your whirring wings !--

Go, seek your gilded mates and infant hives,                   "

Nor taste the honey purchas'd  with      your          lives  !

In a note upon this passage of his poem
                                                       " The
("ppm. a1te5,ria1l6w) hDicahrwsiunrrroeumnadrsksth: e           viscous
                                                        stalks    under

" the flowers of this plant, and of the Cucu-
" balus Otites, is a curious contrivance to
" prevent various insects from plundering the

" honey, or devouring the seed. In the

" Dionaea Muscipula there is a still more won-
" derful contrivance to prevent the depreda-
" tions of insects ; the leaves are armed with

" long teeth, like the antennae of insects, and
" lie spread upon the ground round the stem ;
" and are so irritable, that when an insect

" creeps upon them, they fold up, and crush
158 LIFE OP

" or pierce it to death." The same explana
tion is satisfactory to him for the capture of
insects by the leaves of the Sundew (Drosera),

at the same time, that both plants had been
already suspected of using the captured
insects as food. Diderot, it may be remarked
in passing, appears to have been the first to
employ the expression " carnivorous plants ;"
he said of the Venus' fly-trap (Dioncea),
" Voila une plante presque carnivore."*

    We must dwell a little longer upon the
investigations of the elder Darwin upon the
protective arrangements of plants, because
they explain to us a remarkable error into
which this acute naturalist fell with respect
to the secretion of honey in flowers. He
believed, especially from the last-mentioned
examples, that plants were generally equipped
so as to keep insects and other lovers of
honey away from the flowers ; and he was
strengthened in this opinion by the circum
stance that the source of honey in most
flowers is very much concealed, and often
hidden under complex protective contriv
ances. He also thought that the resemblance

          * Diderot, (Euvres, ed. d'Assezat, tome xi. p. 227.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  159

of the flowers of many orchids to insects
could be best explained by a sort of mimicry.
His idea, which was very ingenious although
fallacious, was that they had acquired the
aspect of flowers already occupied by insects in
order to be protected from the visits of lovers
of honey. Thus the flowers of the Fly-Ophrys
resemble a small wall-bee (Apis ichneumoned)
so closely that at a small distance they appear
to be already occupied ; and a South- Ameri
can Cypripedium even resembles the bird-
catching spider, in order to frighten away
the humming birds, which are so greedy of

honey.* Although founded on false ex
amples, the principle of mimicry is here quite
correctly expounded, and perhaps for the first

time.

   The works of Kolreuterf (1761) and

Sprengel (1793), which explained the contri
vances for the allurement of insects, appear to
have been unknown to Darwin, or to have been

regarded by him as unconvincing, for even in

    * ' The Economy of Vegetation,' p. 201.

  f Dr. Darwin certainly mentions casually the experiments on

Nicotiana, by which Kolreuter thousht that he had succeeded
in converting one plant into another, but he only knew of them
from another book.
160 LIFE OF

his last (posthumous) work, ' The Temple of
Nature,' he speaks of the honey-secretion of
plants in the same way as in his earliest writ

ings. In a special article,* he endeavours to

fathom the secret cause of the general and
abundant secretion of honey by most flowers,
aud arrives at the supposition that it is
intended to serve as nutriment and as an

excitant for the sexual organs of the plant,
for which reason it flows only until fertiliza
tion has taken place. He was strengthened
in this curious error by the circumstance
that insects usually go in search of honey
in no other stage of their development
than at the period of their sexual maturity,

that is to say, as perfect insects. A " philo

sopher " who seems to have accompanied him
upon this mistaken course, actually supported
his opinion by the absurd conjecture that
the first insects had proceeded from a meta
morphosis of the honey-loving stamens and
pistils of the flowers, by their separation
from the parent plant after the fashion of the

male flowers of Vallisneria, and " that many

    * ' The Economy of Vegetation,' Additional Notes, pp. 107-
112.
             ERASMUS DARWIN.  161

"  other insects have gradually in long process
"  of time been formed from these ; some
"
"  acquiring wings, others fins, and others
"
"  claws, from their ceaseless efforts to procure
   their food, or to secure themselves from injury.
"  He (the philosophic friend) contends that
   none of these changes are more incompre-
"  hensible than the transformation of tadpoles

" into frogs, and caterpillars into butter-
" flies." *

   This error is so instructive and worth

notice, because it shows us the difficulty of ex

plaining a complex natural arrangement, when

one starts from false premises. Could Dr.

Darwin, who afterwards wrote so impressively

upon the mischief of inbreeding, have heard
from any one the magic words " Benefits of
" Cross-fertilization," his error would have

fallen like scales from his eyes ; but he firmly

believed that flowers are as far as possible

adapted for self-fertilization, and he stigmatizes

a case of fertilization by the stamens of other

flowers, observed by chance in Collinsonia,

with the name of " adultery."f At the same

   * ' The Economy of Vegetation,' Additional Notes, p. 109.
   t ' The Economy of Vegetation,' p. 197, note.

                                                                         M
 .62 LIFE OP

rime the exact adaptation of the honey-seek
ing insects to their business did not escape
him, for in one passage, after describing the
great care which Nature has taken to hide
the honey of the honeysuckle at the bottom of
a long tube (in contrast, incomprehensible to
him, with those flowers in which it lies quite
exposed), he adds that the proboscis of bees
and lepidoptera seems to be especially designed
to reach it in spite of these precautions. " The
" colouring materials of vegetables, like those
" which serve the purpose of tanning, var-
" nishing, and the various medical purposes,
" do not seem," he says in a note on the
madder plant,* " essential to the life of the
" plant ; but seem given it as a defence
" against insects or other animals, to whom
" these materials are nauseous or deleterious.
" The colours of insects and many smaller

" animals contribute to conceal them from the

" larger ones which prey upon them. Cater-
" pillars which feed on leaves are generally

" green ; earth-worms the colour of the earth
" which they inhabit ; butterflies, which fre-
" quent flowers, are coloured like them ; small

               * ' The Loves of the Plants,' p. 38, note.
              ERASMUS DARWIN.                             163

n  birds which frequent hedges have greenish
   backs like the leaves, and light coloured
"  bellies like the sky, and are hence less
"  visible to the hawk, who passes under them
"  or over them. Those birds which are much
"
"  amongst flowers, as the goldfinch (Fringilla
"  carduelis), are furnished with vivid colours.
"  The lark, partridge, hare, are the colour of

" dry vegetables or earth on which they rest.
" And frogs vary their colour with the mud of
" the streams which they frequent ; and those
" which live on trees are green. Fish, which
" are generally suspended in water, and
"
   swallows,  which are    generally suspended in
"  air have   their backs   the colour of the dis-

" tant ground, and their bellies of the sky.
"
   In the  colder  climates many                of these  become
"          during    the existence               of the    snows.-
   white
" Hence there is apparent design in the colours
" of animals, whilst those of vegetables seem
" consequent to the other properties of the
" materials which possess them."*

   * In the numerous works of the last century which treat of

physico-theology, and especially in those on insecto-theology, in
which the existence of a purpose in all the arrangements of

Nature was discussed in  all senses,  tthoer"e   are probably numerous
examples of phenomena    pertaining             mimicry." Thus Rosel

                                                M2
104 LIFE OF

In his chief scientific work, the ' Zoono-

mia,'* to which we now turn, Darwin has also

sought to fathom the causes at work in these

colorations, a matter to which we shall revert

hereafter. The work just mentioned essen

tially forms a physiology and psychology of

man as a foundation for a pathology, but at

the same time glances are everywhere cast

over the whole animal world. What rank

Ithis work may take in the history of physio
logy, psychology, and medicine,  cannot

judge, from want of special knowledge in those

departments. Upon the author's contempora

ries it produced a very considerable impres
sion, and was immediately translated into

German by a physician of note,f and the trans

lator points out the wonderful agreement of its
views with those of a simultaneously published

work of the celebrated German pathologist

von Rosenhof, in his ' Insekten-lielustigungen" (Numbers,
1746), describes the resemblance which the caterpillars of geo
metric moths, and also certain moths when in repose, present to

dry twigs, and thus conceal themselves, but this group of bio
logical phenomena seems to have been first regarded from a more
general point of view by Dr. Darwin.

   * ' Zoonomia, or the Laws of Organic Life.' London, 1794-

1798.

  f By Hofrath J. D. Brandis, in 5 vols. Hanover, 1795-1799.
ERASMUS DARWIN".  165

Reil; Hufeland also was strongly influenced by
Darwin. The fundamental idea, it seems to

me, is that in plants and animals a living force
is at work, which, endowed in both with sensi

bility, is enabled spontaneously to adapt them
to the circumstances of the outer world, so
that the assumption of innate ideas, of divinely
implanted impulses and instincts is rendered
unnecessary, and even the process of thought

appears attainable as the legitimate activity
of a mechanical analysis and combination.

All kinds of human knowledge originate from

the senses, the action of which is regarded as
the chief source of knowledge, and is accord
ingly first of all investigated.

   As regards the apparently inborn faculties
which young animals bring with them into the

world, the author explains them by repeated
exertions of the muscles under the guidance
of the sensations and stimuli. Thus it cannot

be wonderful that animals are born into the
world with the faculty of swimming, or of
walking upon four feet, and of swallowing,
for they learnt to swim in the egg or in the
body of the mother, whilst to walk upon two
feet is for quadrupeds an art which does not
1GG LIFE OF

belong to nature ; the swallowing of fluids is
learnt by every foetus, for they all swallow the
amniotic fluid that surrounds them, and it is
only the eating of solid matter that requires
to be afterwards learned. In the learning of

new things the imitative impulse has most to
do ; and the fact that man, as Aristotle has
said, is above all an imitative animal, fits him
best for the acquisition of difficult perform

ances, --as, for example, of speech. The

author ascribes this desire of imitation even
to the smallest constructive parts of the body
(as we should say, to the cells), and thereby
explains the simultaneous disease of whole
complexes of them. The expression of the
emotions, also, is acquired by imitation,
although their fundamental conditions are

organically imposed.
   The author very carefully studied this

subject, which has been elaborated by his
grandson with so much success, and deduces
his formula? especially from the first impres
sions of new-born creatures. The trembling
of fear may perhaps be referred back to
the cold shivering of the new-born infant ;
and weeping to the first irritation of
ERASMUS DARWIN.  167

the lachrymal glands by cold air, as well

as by pleasant and disagreeable odours.
That anger and rage are universally ex
pressed by animals taking the position of

attack, is immediately intelligible. As regards
smiling and the expression of the agreeable
sensations, the author refers them, as well as

the feeling of the beauty of undulating lines
and of rounded surfaces, to the pleasure of the
first nourishment derived from the soft and

gently rounded maternal breast. " In the
" action of sucking," he says, " the lips of the
" infant are closed around the nipple of its
" mother, till he has filled his stomach, and

" the pleasure occasioned by the stimulus
" of this grateful food succeeds. Then the
" sphincter of the mouth, fatigued by the
" continued action of sucking, is relaxed ; and
" the antagonist muscles of the face gently
" acting, produce the smile of pleasure, as
" cannot but be seen by all who are conver-
" sant with children. Hence this smile during
" our lives is associated with gentle pleasure ;
" it is visible in kittens, and puppies, when
" they are played with and tickled ; but more
" particularly marks the human features.
168 LIFE OP

" For in children this expression of pleasure
" is much encouraged, by their imitation of

" their parents, or friends, who generally
" address them with a smiling countenance :
" and hence some nations are more remark-
" able for the gaiety, and others for the
" gravity of their looks."*

Similarly the wagging of the tails of

animals and the purring of cats are referred

back to certain movements which they acquire

in the time of their existence as sucklings.
" Lambs shake or wriggle their tails, at the
" time when they first suck, to get free of
" the hard excrement which had been long
" lodged in the bowels. Hence this becomes
" afterwards a mark of pleasure in them, and
" in dogs, and other tailed animals. But
" cats gently extend and contract their paws
" when they are pleased, and purr by draw-
" ing in their breath, both which resemble
" their manner of sucking, and thus become
" their language of pleasure, for these animals
" having collar-bones, use their paws like
" hands when they suck, which dogs and
" sheep do not."f These examples may

* 'Zoonomia,' vol. i. xvi. 8, 4.  t 8, 3.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  169

serve to show the author's treatment of this

difficult theme.

   The arts and migratory and social in
stincts of animals are referred to personal
consideration and gradual experience of
advantages to be attained. Here also the
imitative impulse plays a principal part;

and if a horse, for example, wishes to be

scratched in a particular part which he
cannot reach with his muzzle, he bites his
neighbour in the spot in question, and the
latter at once understands the hint and does
what is required of him. That the arts-
of animals are acquired is proved by the ex
ample already adduced of certain horses stamp
ing down the spiny furze, which the horses
of more fertile districts do not understand ;

and the author also cites many other instances

of local deviations and innovations in nest-
building and the construction of burrows.

Here also we find already mentioned those
statements which have been frequently made
of late years, with regard to bees which, in
certain distant countries (in this case the
Island of Barbadoes), store up no honey. The
author regards the artificial skill of bees and
170 LIFE OP

ants as very ancient, seeing that it has become

so perfectly developed.

   It must not, however, be supposed that the

author regards these instincts as communi
cated solely by imitation ; he accepts without

hesitation the heritability of acquired cor

poreal peculiarities and mental faculties.

                         in the section
Upon these points there  is,
                                      a
(xxxix.) which treats of generation, and is of

the greatest importance to us, an introductory

observation which contains, as in nutshell,

the explanation of the biological fundamental

law, and expresses the same ideas which Mr.

Samuel Butler last year made the subject of a
comprehensive book.* " The ingenious Dr.
" Hartley in his work on man, and some
" other philosophers," says Darwin, " have
" been of opinion, that our immortal part
" acquires during this life certain habits of
" action or of sentiment, which become for-
" ever indissoluble, continuing after death in
" future state of existence and add, that
a

                    *
                          '

         I
                                                        ;
                                                   if
" these habits are of the malevolent kind,
" they must render the possessor miserable
" even in heaven.
                   would apply this ingenious

Life and Habit.' London, 1878.
              ERASMUS DARWIX.                                               171

"'* idea to the generation, or production of the
"  embryon,   or new animal which partakes so
"
"  much of    the form and propensities of the
"  parent."     And he continues as follows :
   Owing to
"              the imperfection of language the
   offspring  is termed a new animal, but is in
"
"  trutha a branch or elongation of the parent ;                          is,
   since  a part of the embryon-animal or
           part of the parent and therefore in                                    ;
"  was,           it
                     it
"  strict language  the  cannot                  be             said to be
   entirely new at                            ;                production
" and therefore          time of                 its

                    may retain some of the
" habits of the parent-system."*

   It may be observed that the author speaks

here only of one parent this because he
                         ;                                     is
                                                                     a
supposed that the embryo consists of the
                                                                        it
spermatozoid produced by the father, which

in the mother finds little more than suitable

nutritive fluid, and nidus in which can
                    a

develop itself into a perfect animal. The

resemblance of the newly produced creature to

the mother may be explained by the influence

of the nutritive material furnished by her.

Leaving out of consideration this easily ex

cusable, and, in itself, unimportant error

                 Zoonomia,' xxxix.
              *
                 '
                                                           1.
it172 LIFE OF
                                             it,
(which I was obliged to mention only because
                                                                                                   ;
the author always speaks of a "filament,"
instead of the egg as the germ of the living
creature), the author now, with the greatest
acumen, maintains the theory of epigenesis in

opposition to the theory of evolution (in the

older sense), showing that every creature is a
complete new formation, which, with each grade
of development attained by develops other

formative impulses, and thus can incorporate
with its own essence even the latest acquisi

tions of its parents, by virtue cf the faculty of
recollection possessed by the embryo. The

old theory of enclosure could not explain such
innovations in the domain of life, and against

   Dr. Darwin therefore turned with lively

sarcasm. " Many ingenious philosophers,"
he says, " have found so great difficulty in
" conceiving the manner of the reproduction
" of animals, that they have supposed all the
" numerous progeny to have existed in minia-
" ture in the animal originally created and
" that these infinitely minute forms are only
" evolved or distended, as the embryon in-
" creases in the womb. This idea, besides its
" being unsupported by any analogy we are
ERASMCS DARWIN.                                                          173

" acquainted with, ascribes a greater tenuity
" to organized matter than we can readily
" admit ; as these included embryons are sup-
" posed each of them to consist of the various
" and complicate parts of animal bodies : they
" must possess a much greater degree of
" minuteness, than that which was ascribed
" to the devils that tempted St. Anthony ;
" of whom 20,000 were said to be able
" to dance a saraband on the point of the
" finest needle without incommoding each
" other." *

   In the eighth paragraph of the fourth part

of this same section the author gives a short
sketch of the theory of evolution, which, how

ever, must have been more clearly developed
Iin his mind.
               reproduce it here, with some

abridgments, because in fifteen years before
                 it,

                                 '
the appearance of Lamarck's Philosophic

Zoologique,' the principles of evolution were
completely set forth. Darwin says, " When
" we revolve in our minds, first, the great

u changes, which we see naturally produced
" in animals after their nativity, as in the
" production of the butterfly with painted

Zoonomia,' vol.  xxxix. iii.
*
    '
                               i.
                                      §
                                                                     1.
174 LIFE OP

" wings from the crawling caterpillar ; or of
" the respiring frog from the subnatant tad-
" pole ; from the feminine boy to the bearded
" man

   " Secondly, when we think over the great
" changes introduced into various animals by
" artificial or accidental cultivation, as in
" horses, which we have exercised for the
" different purposes of strength or swiftness,
" in carrying burthens or in running races ;
" or in dogs, which have been cultivated for
" strength and courage, as the bull-dog ; or
" for acuteness of his sense of smell, as the

" hound and spaniel ; or for the swiftness of his

" foot as the greyhound ; or for his swimming
" in the water, or for drawing snow-sledges,
" the rough-haired dogs of the north ;
" and add to these the great changes of shape
" and colour, which we daily see produced in
" smaller animals from our domestication of
" them, as rabbits, or pidgeons ; or from the
" difference of climates, and even of seasons ;
" thus the sheep of warm climates are covered
" with hair instead of wool ; and the hares and
" partridges of the latitudes which are long
" buried in snow, become white during the
ERASMUS DARWIST.  175

" winter months ; add to these the various
" changes produced in the forms of mankind
" by their early modes of exertion ; or by the
" diseases occasioned by their habits of life ;
" both of which become hereditary, and that

" through many generations. Those who

" labour at the anvil, the oar, or the loom, as
" well as those who carry sedan-chairs, or
" those who have been educated to dance
" upon the rope, are distinguishable by the
" shape of their limbs

   "Thirdly, when we enumerate the great
" changes produced in the species of animals
" before their nativity ; these, are such as
" resemble the form or colour of their parents,
" which have been altered by the cultivation
" or accidents above related, and are thus
" continued to their posterity. Or they are
" changes produced by the mixture of species,
" as in mules ; or changes produced probably
" by the exuberance of nourishment supplied

 " to the fetus, as in monstrous births with
" additional limbs ; many of these enormities
" of shape are propagated, and continued as

" a variety at least, if not as a new species
176 LIFE OF

I" of animal.  have seen a breed of cats
" with an additional claw on every foot ; of
" poultry also with an additional claw, and
" with wings to their feet ; and of others
" without rumps. Mr. Buffon mentions a

" breed of dogs without tails, which are
" common at Rome and at Naples, which he
" supposes to have been produced by a
" custom long established of cutting their
" tails close off. There are many kinds of
" pidgeons, admired for their peculiarities,
" which are monsters thus produced and
" propagated. . . . When we consider all
" these changes of animal form, and innumer-
" able others, which may be collected from the
" books of natural history ; we cannot but be
" convinced, that the fetus or embryon is
" formed by apposition of new parts, and not
" by the distention of a primordial nest of
" germs included one within another like the
" cups of a conjurer.
" Fourthly, when we revolve in our minds
" the great similarity of structure which
" obtains in all the warm-blooded animals, as
" well quadrupeds, birds, and amphibious
             ERASMUS DARWIN.      177

" animals, as in mankind ; from the mouse
" and bat to the elephant and whale ; one is
" led to conclude,
                    that they  have alike been
" produced from     a similar  living filament.
"
   In some   this filament in its advance to
"            has acquired hands and fingers,
   maturity
" with a fine sense of touch, as in mankind.
" In others it has acquired claws or talons
..." in others toes with an intervening
..." web, or membrane
                       in others it has
" acquired cloven hoofs . . . and whole hoofs
" in others . . . while in the bird kind this
" original living filament has put forth wings
" instead of arms or legs, and feathers instead
" of hair. In some it has protruded horns on
" the forehead instead of teeth in the fore part
" of the upper jaw ; in others tushes instead of
" horns ; and in others beaks instead of either.
" And all this exactly is daily seen in the

" transmutations of the tadpole, which acquires
" legs and lungs when he wants them ; and
" loses his tail when it is no longer of service
" to him.
   " Fifthly, from their first rudiment, or pri-
" mordium, to the termination of their lives,
" all animals undergo perpetual transforma-

                               N
178 LIFE OP

u tions, which are in part produced by their
"
   own exertions in consequence of their
"  desires and aversions, of their pleasures and

" pains, or of irritations, or of associations;
" and many of these acquired forms or
" propensities are transmitted to their pos-
" terity.
  "As air and water are supplied to animals

" in sufficient profusion, the three great objects
" of desire, which have changed the forms of
" many animals by their exertions to gratify

" them, are those of lust, hunger, and security.

" A great want of one part of the animal

" world has consisted in the desire of the
" exclusive possession of the females; and
" these have acquired weapons to combat
" each other for this purpose, as the very
" thick, shield-like, horny skin on the
" shoulder of the boar is a defence only
" against animals of his own species, who
" strike obliquely upwards, nor are his tushes
" for other purposes, except to defend himself,
" as he is not naturally a carnivorous animal.
" So the horns of the stag are sharp to offend
" his adversary, but are branched for the
" purpose of parrying or receiving the thrusts
               ERASMUS DARWIN.                     179

" of horns similar to his own, and have,
"
"  therefore, been formed for the purpose of
"
   combating other stags for the exclusive
"  possession of the females ; who are observed,
"
   like the ladies in the time    of    chivalry,  to
   attend the car of the victor.
   " The birds which do not carry food to their
" young, and do not therefore marry, are
"
   armed with spurs for the purpose     of fight-
"  ing for the exclusive possession       of the

" females, as cocks and quails. It is certain
" that these weapons are not provided for
" their defence against other adversaries,
" because the females of these species are
"
"  without this armour. The final cause of this         '

   contest amongst the males seems to be, that the
"" strongest and most active animal should pro-
   pagate the  species,  which  should  thence  become
"  improved.

   " Another great want consists in the means
" of procuring food, which has diversified the
" forms of all species of animals. Thus the
" nose of the swine has become hard for the
" purpose of turning up the soil in search of
" insects and of roots. The trunk of the
" elephant is an elongation of the nose for the

                                        x2
ISO LIFE OF

'* purpose of pulling down the branches of
" trees for his food, and for taking up water
" without bending his knees. Beasts of prey
" have acquired strong jaws or talons. Cattle
" have acquired a rough tongue and a rough
" palate to pull off the blades of grass. . . .
" Some birds have acquired harder beaks to

   crack nuts, as the parrot. Others have
" acquired beaks adapted to break the harder
" seeds, as sparrows. Others for the softer
" seeds of flowers, or the buds of trees, as the
" finches. Other birds have acquired long
" beaks to penetrate the moister soils in search
" of insects or roots, as woodcocks, and others
" broad ones to filtrate the water of lakes, and
" to retain aquatic insects. All which seem to
*" have been gradually produced during many
" generations by the perpetual endeavour of the
" creatures to supply
                        the  icant of food, and to
" have been delivered    to
                              their posterity with
" constant improvement
" required.             of   them for the purpose

"The third great want among animals is

M that of security, which seems much to have
" diversified the forms of their bodies and the
" colour of them ; these consist in the means

                             <
                         ERASMUS DARWIN".                                 181

" of escaping other animals more powerful
" than themselves.* Hence some animals

    * The question here only touched upon is discussed in detail
                                   the '  Zoonomia '
by the author in another part  of                          (§    xxxix.   5,                             1)

in the following words: --
    " The efficient cause of the various colours of the eggs of birds,

and of the hair and feathers of animals, is a subject so curious,

that I shall beg to introduce it in this place. The colours of

many animals seem adapted to their purposes [of concealing
themselves, either to avoid danger, or^to spring upon their prey.
Thus the snake, and wild cat, and leopard, are so coloured as to

resemble dark leaves and their lighter interstices ; birds resemble

the colour of the brown ground, or the green hedges, which they

frequent ; and moths and butterflies are coloured like the flowers

which they rob of their honey                     These colours have,

however, in some instances, another use, as in the black diverging

area from the eyes of the swan ; which, as his eyes are placed

less prominent than those of other birds, for the convenience of

putting down his head under water, prevents the rays of light

from being reflected into his eye, and thus dazzling his sight,

both in air and beneath the water ; which must have happened,

if  t"haTthesruerfacise  had been white like the  rest of  his feathers.
                         a still more wonderful    thing     concerning
                                                                          these

                         ;
                                                            ;

                                                      is
                                                                                                  . is,
colours adapted to the purpose of concealment ; which                                                    that

the eggs of birds are so coloured as to resemble the colour of the

adjacent objects and their interstices. The eggs of hedge-birds

are greenish, with dark spots those of crows and magpies,

which are seen from beneath through wicker nests, are white

with dark spots and those of larks and partridges are russet or

brown,  like their nests or situations.   is,     that     many  animals                                 in
        thing still more astonishing
   "A

countries covered with snow become white in winter, and are

said to change their colour again in the warmer months.                                                  ..

The final cause of these colours          easily understood, as they

serve some purposes of the animal, but the efficient cause would

seem almost beyond conjecture."

    The author endeavoured, however, to clear the way towards
1S2 LIFE OP

" have acquired wings instead of legs, as the
" smaller birds, for the purpose of escape ;
* others great length of fin or of membrane,
" as the flying fish, and the bat. Others great
" swiftness of foot as the hare. Others have
" acquired hard or armed shells, as the tortoise

M and the echinus marinus.
   " The contrivances for the purposes of
"
   security extend even             to  vegetables, as  is
"  seen in the wonderful           and  various means   of

an explanation by saying that the impression of the constant

white light of the snow, or of the yellow of the desert, or of the

green of the woods, might be transferred by reflex action from

the retina to the external papillfe of the skin and its coverings ;

"and thus, like the fable of the camelion, all animals may

possess a tendency to be coloured somewhat like the colours

they most frequently inspect, and finally, that colours may be

thus given to the egg-shell by the imagination of the female

parent." This supposition has lately been proved to be perfectly

correct with respect to certain fishes, amphibia, reptiles, and

mollusca, which always suit themselves to their lighter or darker

surroundings (see Seidlitz, Die    chromatische Funktion ah
natiirliches Sehutzmittel, in his  ' Beitr&ge zur Descendenz-

Theorie' Leipzig, 1876) ; but it does not suffice for the constant
colorations, notwithstanding the similar hypotheses put forward

by Wallace and others (see Kosmos, iv. p. 120), nor did it by

any means satisfy the elder Darwin, as appears from his further

remarks that the uniformity of the effect would indicate some

other general cause, still to be made out. This cause lies in

natural selection, and the reticence of the elder Darwin in the

face of these circumstances, is the best proof how imperfect any

theory of evolution remains without this principle.
    ERASMUS DARWIN.                           183

" their concealing or defending their honey

**  from insects,  and their seeds     from birds.
                   hand, swiftness    of wing has
"   On the other    by hawks and      swallows to
"
    been acquired
"
"   pursue their prey ; and a proboscis        of
"   admirable structure has been acquired
    the bee, the moth, and the humming bird,  by
"                                             for

"   the purpose   of plundering the   nectaries of
                  which seem to have  been formed
    flowers. All
" by the original living filament, excited into
" action by the necessities of the creatures,
"" which possess them,
   existence depends.   and  on       which  their

   "From thus meditating on the great
" similarity of the structure of the warm-
" blooded animals, and at the same time of
" the great changes they undergo both before
" and after their nativity ; and by considering
" in how minute a portion of time many of

M the changes of animals above described have
" been produced ; would it be too bold to
" imagine, that in the great length of time,

" since the earth began to exist, perhaps
" millions of ages before the commencement
" of the history of mankind, would it be too

" bold to imagine, that all warm - blooded
184 LIFE OF

" animals have arisen from one living filament

" which the Great First Cause endued with

" animality, with the power of acquiring new
" parts, attended with new propensities,

" directed by irritations, sensations, volitions,

" and associations ; and thus possessing the
" faculty of continuing to improve by its own
" inherent activity, and of delivering down
" those improvements by generation to its
" posterity, world without end !"

   It might be doubted, the author goes on to

say, whether the fishes, which have fins
instead of feet or wings, are of the same
blood as the warm-blooded animals ; but
whales, seals, and above all the frog, which
becomes transformed from a fish-like aquatic
animal into an aerial quadruped furnished
with lungs, show that there is no separation
here. On the other hand the insects have

evidently proceeded from a different living
filament, as also the Linnean class of Yermes,

to which sponges, corals, molluscs, &c., were
referred. The same must be supposed with
regard to plants, which the author, like Gothe,
regarded as composite individuals, comparable
to coral stocks.
             ERASMUS DARWIN".          185

   " Linnaeus supposes," continues Darwin,
" in the Introduction to his ' Natural Orders,'
" that very few vegetables were at first created,
" and that their numbers were increased by
" their intermarriages, and adds, suadent hcec
" creatoris leges a simplicibus ad composita.

11  Many  other changes seem  to have  arisen in
          by their perpetual  contest  for light
"   them

" and air above ground, and for food and
" moisture beneath the soil . . . from climate,
" or other causes. From these one might
" be led to imagine, that each plant at first
" consisted of a single bulb or flower to each
" root, as the gentianella and daisy ; and that
" in the contest for air and light new buds
" grew on the old decaying flower stem,
" shooting down their elongated roots to the
" ground, and that in process of ages tall
" trees were thus formed, and an individual
" bulb became a swarm
" plants, which in this   of vegetables. Other
" air were                contest for light and
" strength,
             too slender  to rise by   their own
             learned by   degrees to   adhere to
" their neighbours, either by putting forth
" roots like the ivy, or by tendrils like the
" vine, or by spiral contortions like the honey
186 LIFE OP

" suckle ; or by growing upon them like the
"
   misleto, and taking nourishment from their
"  barks ; or by only lodging or adhering on
"  them, and deriving nourishment from the

" air, as tillandsia.*
   " Shall we then say that the vegetable
" living filament was originally different from
" that of each tribe of animals above-
" described ? And that the productive living
" filament of each of those tribes was different
" originally from the other? Or, as the
" earth and ocean were probably peopled with
" vegetable productions long before the exis-
"
"  tence   of animals ;  and many families      of
   these  animals long   before other families  of
" them, shall we conjecture that one and the
" same kind of living filaments is and has
" been the cause of all organic life ? "

   [Here the author refers to the supposition
that America is perhaps the youngest part of

   * In his multifarious investigations upon the means of dif

fusion of the seeds of plants, by wind, flying and projectile con
trivances, hooks, fur-animals and birds, he mentions with the
greatest admiration the seeds of Tillandsia, which never germi

nate on the ground. They are provided on their crown with

numerous long filaments, by means of which they fly upon the
winds like spiders, until the threads catch upon the branch of a
tree, and fix the germ there. (' The Loves of the Plants,' p. 60.)
   ERASMUS DARWIN".                                                              187

the world, as its inhabitants have not yet ad

vanced so far in intelligence as those of the

Old World, and its animals {e.g. alligators

and tigers) are smaller and weaker. More

over, the mountains there are higher and less

weathered than ours. That the great lakes of

North America are not yet salt, may be ex

p"lai"minpTerhdoivsbeymidteehanetiroofofuthtthfeleowga.rn]aimduaall   formation   and
                                                                     world," he  goes
on to say, " seems not to have been unknown
" to the ancient philosophers. Plato, having
"
   probably observed the reciprocal generation
"  of inferior animals, as snails and worms,

" was of opinion that mankind with all other
" animals were originally hermaphrodites
" during the infancy of the world, and were
" in process of time separated into male and
" female. The breasts and teats of all male
" quadrupeds, to which no use can be now
" assigned, adds perhaps some shadow of
" probability to this opinion. Linnaeus ex-
" cepts the horse from the male quadrupeds,
" who have teats ; which might have shown
" the earlier origin of his existence ; but
" Mr. J. Hunter asserts, that he has discovered
188 LIFE OF

...." the vestiges of them   and lias at the
" same time enriched natural history with a
" very curious fact concerning the male
"
   pidgeon ; at the time of  hatching the eggs
"                            pidgeon undergo a
   both the male and female
" great change in their crops, which thicken
" and become corrugated, and secrete a kind
" of milky fluid, which coagulates, and with
" which alone for a few days they feed their
" young, and afterwards feed them with this

V coagulated fluid mixed with other food.
" How this resembles the breasts of female
" quadrupeds after the production of their
" young ! and how extraordinary, that the
" male should at this time give milk as well
" as the female !
   " The late Mr. David Hume, in his posthu-
"
"  mous  works,  places  the powers of  genera-
   tion  much    above   those of our   boasted
" reason ; and adds, that reason can only
" make a machine, as a clock or a ship, but
" the power of generation makes the maker
" of the machine ; and probably from having
" observed, that the greatest part of the earth
...." has been formed out of organic recrements

" he concludes that the world itself
              ERASMUS DARAVIN.                  189

"  might have been generated rather than
"
   created ; that  is,    might have been pro-
"
                      it
"
   duced from very small beginnings, increas-

   ing by the activity of its inherent principles,
" rather than by sudden evolution of the
                   a

  whole by the Almighty fiat. --What mag-'
" nificent idea of the infinite power of the
" Great Architect The Cause op Causes           !a
                      !
                                 !                     it !
" Parent of Parents Ens Entium
   " For
          if  we may compare infinities,

" would seem to require greater infinity of
                                    a

" power to cause the causes of effects, than to
" cause the effects themselves. This idea
" analogous to the improving excellence         ; is
" observable in every part of the creation

M such as in the progressive increase of the
" solid or habitable parts of the earth from
" water and in the progressive increase of
          ;

                   is
                                          a
" the wisdom and happiness of its inhabit-
" ants; and
                   consonant to the idea of our
" present situation being state of probation,
" which by our exertions we may improve,
" and are consequently responsible for our
" actions."

   No one can avoid admitting that in these

considerations, published in 1794, clear ex
                                             a
190  LIFE OB'

position is already given of the consequences
of the action of use in its application to the
theory of descent, and therefore of what is
unjustly called Lamarckism. To Lamarck is
to be ascribed the great merit of a further
elaboration of these ideas, but their true

originator and first promulgator appears to

have been the elder Darwin. With the most

perfect certainty we also at the same time
have the principles of a theory of sexual
selection laid down, as far as the consequence
that the strongest male will preferently pro
pagate, that is to say, within the same limits
in which alone Mantegazza and Wallace are
willing to recognise sexual selection. The

theory of protective coloration is extended to
the eggs of birds, a discovery which has of

late frequently been ascribed to Wallace.

Moreover it deserves to be indicated that

Darwin regards sexual reproduction as a

principal condition of the advancement of
living creatures, as is also the case with
many modern naturalists. It is probable, he
says, " that if vegetables could only have

" been produced by buds and bulbs, and not
" by sexual generation, that there would not
ERASMUS DARWIN.  191

" at this time have existed one thousandth
" part of their present number of species ;
" which have probably been originally mule-

" productions; nor could any kind of im-
" provements or change have happened to
" them, except by the difference of soil or
" climate."*

   Dr. Darwin believed, moreover, with the

physicians of the last century, that the
imagination of the parents being directed to

certain definite ideals might exert a beneficial

influence upon the young, which would be

impossible in asexual propagation. In a

similar sense the adherents of Geoffroy's
school afterwards thought that the changes of
the world and of the surrounding medium

must have acted more powerfully upon the

plastic embryo than upon the already mature

creature.

  A few years after the ' Zoonomia,' Darwin

published his ' Phytologia,'f in which we also
find many coincidences with the investiga-

   * ' Zoonomia,' vol. i. xxxix. 6, 2.

  t ' Phytologia ; or, the philosophy of agriculture and gardening,

with the theory of draining morasses, and with an improved
construction of the drill plough.' London, Johnson, 1800. In

German by Hebenstreit, 2 vols. Leipzig, 1801.
102 LIFE OF

tions of his grandson, especially with regard
to artificial selection. Nevertheless we need
not here go into it in detail, as his concep
tion of the vegetable world has already been
sufficiently explained in its main features in
connection with the ' Botanic Garden ' and
the ' Zoonomia,' whilst some notice will have
to be given to it in the consideration of his
last work and the general criticism of his

system.

   'The Temple of Nature,'* dated at the
Priory, near Derby, on the 1st of January,

1802, was published in the year following the
death of the poet in a quarto volume, adorned,
like the ' Botanic Garden,' with fine en

gravings. It is also a didactic poem, a repre

sentation in florid verses of his conception of
the universe, fully matured during an inter

val of ten years. In our rapid analysis we

can of course only refer to the novel points of

the poem.

   In the first canto, which deals with the

production of life, &c., we find a decided
insistance on the hypothesis of a Generativ

   * ' The Temple of Nature ; or, the Origin of Society.' A Poem.
London, 1803. In German by Kraus. Brunswick, 1808, 8vo.
ERASMUS DARWIN.  193

cequivoca, the necessity of which he maintains

in a note occupying ten quarto pages. In

the ' Phytologia ' Darwin had set up the
hypothesis that the most ancient plants and
animals had been destitute of sex, and that

the first sexual organs were formed only at a
later period. The asexual propagation of

many plants and animals, such as the
Aphides, which periodically alternates with

sexual generation, are reminiscences of this

asexual state, and if we then go hack still

further we arrive necessarily at the hypo

thesis of spontaneous production :--

         " Hence without parent by spontaneous birth

              Rise the first specks of animated earth."

    The examples which he adduces as probable
occurrences of spontaneous generation at the

present day, such as Priestley's green matter,
moulds and other fungi, &c., are certainly not
very seductive to an unbeliever, but the
acceptance of this hypothesis ought now-a-
days to meet with fewer difficulties than that
of the rival hypothesis of eternal cosmical life.

As a matter of course, as the author remarks,

we must only assume spontaneous generation

                                                                     0
194 LIFE OF

for the simplest creatures of all; all the
higher forms must have been gradually pro
duced from these. This first life originated
in the " shoreless " sea :--

      " Organic life beneath the shoreless waves
        Was born, and nurs'd in ocean's pearly caves ;
       First forms minute, unseen by spheric glass,
         Move on the mud, or pierce the watery mass ;
         These, as successive generations bloom,
        New powers acquire, and larger limbs assume ;
        Whence countless groups of vegetation spring,
        And breathing realms of fin, and feet, and wing."

   In the continuation of these verses (lines

295-302) the author recalls to mind that the

higher animals, and even "the image of

God," commence their course of life as micro

scopic creatures and points : --

           " Imperious man, who rules the bestial crowd,
              Of language, reason, and reflection proud.
             With brow erect who scorns this earthy sod,
             And styles himself the image of his God ;
              Arose from rudiments of form and sense,
              An embryon point, or microscopic ens ! "

    Then, when mountains upheaved by the
central fire, or coral reefs, first rose above the
surface of the boundless sea, individual living
organisms landed upon them, and passing
                  ERASMUS DARWIN.                          195

through an amphibious condition, became
a"ewriaerl ecreraaitsuerdesa. bov"eAtfhteer
                                             islands or continents
                                             primeval ocean," he

s"""aystlahesn,eedkin,mfooaaosndtdnoastitmmetiphgoleehntepadt.gnheie2msn9ac,olesr"gsgwrhreooaaurdeltudsanloaluyftmtetbhmbeeeprcstnoemtowoef
"
   amphibious ;          as is now seen      in the frog,
"  who changes           from an aquatic     animal to an

" amphibious one ; and in the gnat, which
" changes from a natant to a volant state.
"
      .  .  .  .  Those  [organisms]         situated  on  dry

" land and immersed in dry air, may gradually
" aeqiiire new powers to preserve their exist-
" ence ; and by innumerable successive repro-
" ductions for some thousands, or perhaps
" millions of ages, may at length have pro-
" dueed many of the vegetable and animal
" inhabitants which people the earth." As

the water-nut (Trapa natans) and many other
water plants, possess finely divided aquatic
leaves, which may be compared with the gills

of animals, and also but little divided aerial

leaves, comparable to the lungs, so does the
frog lose its gills and become instead of a fish

like aquatic animal, an air-breathing quad

                                             02
196 LIFE OP

ruped. But even the higher animals in their
embryonic development in the egg or the
body of the mother point towards this origin

from humidity.

" Still Nature's births enclosed in egg or seed
  From the tall forest to the lowly weed,
  Her beaux and beauties, butterflies and worms,
  Eise from aquatic to aerial forms.
  Thus in the womb the nascent infant laves
 Its natant form in the circumfluent waves ;
  With perforated heart unbreathing swims,
  Awakes and stretches all its recent limbs ;
  With gills placental seeks the arterial flood,
  And drinks pure ether from its mother's blood."

                                                       (Canto i. 1. 385-394.)

In the first canto the poet sings of the

o"rRigeinparol dpurcotidounctioofnLioffeli"fefo; rthites  second has the

                                                          subject. In a

note upon this canto a question comes under
discussion for the first time in the works of

the elder Darwin, which his celebrated grand
son first settled experimentally, and one of

his great-grandsons (George Darwin) has
made the subject of thorough investigation,

namely the advantage of cross-fertilization

and the mischief of inbreeding.

   Dr. Darwin says :--" It may be probably

" useful occasionally to intermix seeds from
              ERASMUS DARWIN.          197

"  different  situations together ;  as the anther-
   dust is    liable to pass from    one plant to
"

" another in its vicinity ; and by these means
u the new seeds or plants may be amended,

" like the marriages of animals into different
" families.
   " As the sexual progeny of vegetables are
" thus less liable to hereditary diseases than
" the solitary progenies, so it is reasonable
" to conclude, that the sexual progenies of
" animals may be less liable to hereditary

" diseases, if the marriages are into different
" families, than if into the same family ; this

" has long been supposed to be true, by those
" who breed animals for sale ; since if the

f< male and female be of different tempera-
" merits, as these are extremes of the animal
"
   system, they   may counteract each  other ;
"  and certainly   where both parents
                                       are of
" families, which are afflicted with the same
" hereditary disease, it is more likely to
" descend to their posterity. . . . Finally the
" art to improve the sexual progeny of either
" vegetables or animals must consist in
" choosing the most perfect of both sexes,
" that is the most beautiful in respect to the
198 LIFE OF

" body, and the most ingenious in respect to
" the mind ; but where one sex is given,
" whether male or female, to improve a progeny
" from that person may consist in choosing a
" partner of a contrary temperament. As
" many families become gradually extinct

" by hereditary diseases, as by scrofula,

" consumption, epilepsy, mania, it is often
" hazardous to marry an heiress, as she is
" not unfrequently the last of a diseased
" family."*

   His great grandson, George Darwin, has

attempted to demonstrate by statistics these
suppositions, which indeed have been often
expressed, but found that in man no great
injury could be ascertained statistically to
be produced by family marriages, probably
in consequence of the very different condi
tions under which cousins are frequently
brought up.

   We now pass over a hundred verses, and see
what the author has to say in a note on the

Origin of Man. " It has been supposed by

" some," he says, "that mankind were formerly
" quadrupeds as well as hermaphrodites ; and

        * ' Temple of Nature,' Additional Notes, pp. 44, 45,
   ERASMUS DARWIN.                              199

" that some parts of the body are not yet so
" convenient to an erect attitude as to a hori-
" zontal one ; as the fundus of the bladder
"
   in an erect posture is not   exactly  over   the
"  insertion of the urethra ;  whence    it is  sel-

" dom completely evacuated, and thus renders
" mankind more subject to the stone, than if
" he had preserved his horizontally ; these
" philosophers, with BufFon and Helvetius,
" seem to imagine that mankind arose from
" one family of monkeys on the banks of the
" Mediterranean; who accidentally had learned
" to use the adductor pollicis, or that strong
" muscle which constitutes the ball of the
" thumb, and draws the point of it to meet
" the points of the fingers ; which common
" monkeys do not ; and that this muscle gradu-
*" ally increased in size, strength, and activity,

   in successive generations ; and by this im-
" proved use of the sense of touch, that
" monkeys acquired clear ideas, and gradually
" became men."*

   The great part performed by the hand and
its improved sense of touch is specially de
scribed in the third canto, which is devoted

   * 1 Temple of Nature,' note p. 54.           i
200 LIFE OF

to the development and progress of the human
mind. Animals excel man in being endowed
with many kinds of weapons and in having
the senses more highly developed, but the
influence of the hand in forming the mind

more than compensates for all :--

       " Proud man alone in wailing weakness born,
          No horns protect him, and no plumes adorn ;
          No finer powers of nostril, ear, or eye,
         Teach the young Reasoner to pursue or fly. --
          Nerved with fine touch above the bestial throngs,
          The hand, first gift of Heaven ! to man belongs ;
          Untipt with claws the circling fingers close,
         With rival points the bending thumbs oppose,
          Trace the nice lines of Form with sense refined,
         And clear ideas charm the thinking mind.
          Whence the fine organs of the touch impart
          Ideal figure, source of every art ;
          Time, motion, number, sunshine or the storm,
          But mark varieties in Nature's form."
                                                       (Canto iii. 1. 117-130.)

   In young dogs, adds the author, the

lips are the principal organs which enable
them to acquire an idea of the forms of
things ; and in young children also the lips
play a great part in the same way. He then
describes very fully the functions of the im
pulse of imitation in man, attributing to it
ERASMUS DARWIN".                         201

the first origin of all moral actions, languages

and arts.

   The " Muse of Mimicry," as Darwin, in what

follows, repeatedly calls the love of imitation in

man, gave rise especially in his opinion to the

first language, and the first writing, which

was a picture-writing.

   On the problem of the origin of language,

the learned Lord Monboddo's anonymously

published work (' Of the Origin and Progress
of Language in three volumes, had at that
'),
                            a
                                (i.
                                            p.

                                     it

                                               i. is a
time been in existence for quarter of

century. In this book he shows, by the study

of animals and deaf-mutes, in opposition to

recent observers, that without speech

possible to think and to form ideas, for speech

less animals manifestly have ideas (vol.
p. 217 et seg.). Signs and musically varied

cries formed the commencement            476).

Articulation was acquired by imitation of

natural sounds, e.g. the voices of birds

(v. p. 490). Even such new conceptions as
that of A. Maurer, that primitive speech was

formed not by monosyllabic but polysyllabic

words, are already to be found here pp. 507

et seq.). It decidedly much to be wished
is
                                    (i.
202 . LIFE OF                                »

that some philologist would analyse this for
gotten book from the modern standpoint. We
are not sufficiently skilled to examine how

much novelty there may be in Dr. Darwin's

studies in this department, and must content

ourselves with calling attention to the detailed

considerations which he gives in his notes, in

connection with which we may here reproduce

one of the most characteristic passages in the
poem :--

" When strong desires or soft sensations move
  The astonished Intellect to rage or love ;
  Associate tribes of fibrous motions rise,
  Flush the red cheek, or light the laughing eyes.
  Whence ever-active Imitation finds
  The ideal trains, that pass in kindred minds ;
  Her mimic arts associate thoughts excite
  And the first Language enters at the sight."
                                               (Canto Hi. L 335-342.)

   After showing how true language has
originated from the language of the emotions

and gestures, from the first exclamations,

(" Association's mystic power combines
   Internal passions with external signs.")

he traces the accentuation  and articulation
                            of fundamental
of sounds, the formation    the growth of
words and abstract ideas,,
ERASMUS DARWIN.                                                     203

intellect intimately connected with these pro

cesses, and the origin of the social virtues or

g-eneral morality founded upon social inter

course. The fundamental principle of the

l"atLtoevr eis tbheystneexigphrebsosuerd   in   the words    of  Christ,
                                               thyself."
                                          as

The fourth canto, entitled "Of Good and

Evil," represents the spiritual as a stage of

development of the material world, the sum of

the happiness and evil therein. About the

first hundred verses are devoted to a descrip

tion of the pitiless struggle for existence

which rages in the air, on the earth, and in

the water, making the earth, with its inces

santly warring inhabitants, like                             a vast

slaughter-house :--

    " Air, earth, and ocean, to astonish'd day

One scene of blood, one mighty tomb display !

From Hunger's arm the shafts of Death are hurl'd,                    "

And one great Slaughter-house                  the  warring  world  !

                                               (Canto iv. 1. 63-66.)

This description is no mere passing notion,

for in his first didactic poem, * The Botanic

Garden,' written at least twenty years

before, this same idea occurs (p. 28). Dr.
Balguy had indicated the benefits with which

the great Author of all things had favoured
204 LIFE OF

the world. The young animal takes the
mother's breast with pleasure, and the mother

has pleasure in offering it. The seeds of
plants, rich in nutritive material, serve animals
for food without themselves feeling pain.
Against this much too rose-coloured conception
of the world, our author protested at the time.
The lion devours the lamb, and the latter
the living plants, whilst man eats both ; there
is nothing like peace in nature. In his last

work this conception appears to have been
much deepened ; not only do animals destroy
each other and plants, but even the plants
struggle among themselves for soil, moisture,
air, and light

    " Yes ! smiling Flora drives her armed car
       Through the thick ranks of vegetable war ;
      Herb, shrub, and tree with strong emotions rise
      For light and air, and battle in the skies ;
      Whose roots diverging with opposing toil
      Contend below for moisture and for soil ;
      Eound the tall Elm the fluttering Ivies bend,
      And strangle, as they clasp, their straggling friend ;
      Envenom'd dews from Mancinella flow,
      And scald with caustic touch the tribes below ;
      Dense shadowy leaves on stems aspiring borne
      With blight and mildew thin the realms of corn ;
     And insect hordes with restless tooth devour
      The unfolded bud, and pierce the ravell'd flower."

                                                          (Canto iv. 1. 41-54.)
        ERASMU3 DARWIN.                          205

    Fortunately living creatures often struggle

with each other for the advantage of a third
party, as when the voracious larvas of insects
which, after their metamorphosis, live only

on honey, destroy the innumerable hosts of

aphides, which otherwise, from their enor

mous fertility would exterminate all vege

tation. An excess of the caterpillars of butter

flies is destroyed by hymenopterous insects ;

moreover plants are able to protect them

selves from complete destruction. Nevertheless
this never-resting struggle of all against all,

would soon create desolation, if Nature was

 not so exceedingly fruitful that without such

 a struggle nearly every creature would very
 soon overrun the whole world : --

" All these, increasing by successive birth,

  Would each o'erpeople ocean, air, and earth."

Here is the great question put, What is the

meaning for Nature, of this incessant struggle

in Nature ? For a moment we may perhaps

expect to get the solution of this mystery of

Nature from the poet who had come so near

to but  only presentiment of the truth,
it,

       it

             is
                           a

not the truth itself. Thus he says that the
 206 LIFE OF

 incessant struggle serves to increase the sum

of the happiness of the survivors : --

     " Thus the tall mountains, that enclose the lands,
        Huge isles of rock, and continents of sands,
        Whose dim extent eludes the inquiring sight,
      Are mighty monuments of past Delight ;
        Shout round the globe, how Reproduction strives
       With vanquish 'd Death, --and Happiness survives ;
        How life increasing peoples every clime.
       And young renascent Nature conquers Time ;
              And high in golden characters record
       The immense munificence of Nature's Lord."
                                                        (Canto iv. 1. 447-456.)

   By the increased happiness which arises from
the death of those which fall in the struggle,

the author, however, chiefly understands that
fresh life blooms from dull age, and that, as

both the number and the size of living animals
increase with the decrease of the water, the
sum of enjoyment of life must also increase,
until the earth is once more reduced to its
elements, in order, through chaos, to com
mence a new cycle.* The principle of the
reconversion of the world into chaos, also

supported by modern physics, is laid down by
the author in his ' Botanic Garden ' with

                      * ' Temple of Nature,' p. 166 note.
ERASMUS DARWIX.  207

Isuch force that cannot refrain from giving

this passage as a final example of his poetical
power : --

    " Roll on, ye Stars ! exult in youthful prime,
       Mark with bright curves the printless steps of time ;
       Near and more near your beamy cars approach,
      And lessening orbs on lessening orbs encroach ;

       Flowers of the sky ! ye too to age must yield,
      Frail as your silken sisters of the field !

       Star after star from Heaven's high arch shall rush,
      Suns sink on Suns, and systems systems crush,
       Headlong, extinct, to one dark centre fall,
       And Death, and Night, and Chaos mingle all !

            Till o'er the wreck, emerging from the storm,
      Immortal Nature lifts her changeful form,

       Mounts from her funeral pyre on wings of flame,
      And soars and shines, another and the same."

- In his 'Phytologia' (xix. 1) the author

has treated still more in detail the question
of the struggle for existence, and the sum of
happiness originating therefrom, and he indi
cates in the note last cited that the faculty of
higher enjoyment increases with the height of
organization of the creatures. He had not
indeed solved the question, hut his remarks
upon it have directed the eyes of many of

his readers to the struggle for existence, and
in this we may perhaps find the explanation

of the remarkable fact that so many English
208 LIFE OF

naturalists (Wells, Matthew, Charles Darwin,

Wallace, &c.) have one after the other set up
the principle of natural selection. This shows

the power of the poet to excite the fancy even

of others ; and a happy fate has arranged that

the true heir has obtained the greatest benefit

from the bequest.
   The ' Temple of Nature ' contributed greatly

to "enhance Darwin's poetical fame, for the

representation is more rounded, and less over

grown with allegorical comparisons, than in

his first didactic poems. But how little the
philosophy expressed in it satisfied the readers

of that time may be seen from a criticism
which was given of the poem in the ' Edin

burgh Review' (vol. ii. 1803, pp. 491-506).
IfIn it

which
occurs (p. 501)        the following remark,
 is interesting
                      in two ways :--" his
" fame be destined in anything to outlive
" the fluctuating fashion of the day, it is on
" his merit as a poet that it is likely to rest ;
" and his reveries in science have probably
" no other chance of being saved from
" oblivion, but by having been ' married to
" immortal verse.' "

This full recognition of the author's poetical
-JUN 7 1950

